u2014-06-23-0	Dear House, The next special meeting of the Parliament will be opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. I declare that Mr Zoltán Balczó Jobbikos and Mr Csaba Molnár, independent Members, informed me on 20 June that they will continue their work as MEPs and that their parliamentary representatives will resign. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to thank you for your work so far and to wish them good luck. I declare that the current number of the Parliament is 197. Dear House, I declare that on behalf of the Government, Minister Zsolt Semjén is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament has initiated an extraordinary meeting to be held today. He indicated in the annex to his letter all the proposals he had initiated to be discussed. You can find this on the website. Dear House, It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. Today's speech before the agenda was tabled by Mrs Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, entitled "The Day of Addiction. " Here you go.
u2014-06-23-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Today will definitely be included in the history books, because it is not just about taking another loan, but in a few hours' time here in this Chamber, Parliament is about to decide on Hungary's independence. None of us - who are in this room and who will be in this room - can know what this decision will drag Hungary into. It is quite clear to us that you have not carried out impact assessments, and from now on the outcome of the entire project is completely doubtful, but it is definitely within the disaster range. Because the euro/forint exchange rates cannot be estimated in advance, and you are dragging Hungary into another foreign exchange loan at a time when this country has not been able to recover from a series of previous wrong decisions. In addition, one thing is fixed: you are about to sign with a Russia, which is a long-term one, which, through the example of neighbouring Ukraine, shows what the treaties mean for them and international relations at all. You are indebted to them to Hungary, and if we add that you are doing this in exchange for nuclear power plants, then there is no doubt: you, gentlemen and ladies, are out of your mind. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They know that there are situations and there are people from whom money cannot be borrowed, because we do not know what will result from this transaction. Moreover, Hungary's expected creditor does not like to ask, does not like to demand, because he speaks the language of violence. It's spread on a wide scale, from threats to extortion to intense violence and tanks. There are many people in this country who still remember that. Have you forgotten all this? Of course, they reassure themselves that this is all about Hungary's addiction, reducing addiction. But do you really think that in exchange for a nuclear power plant that will be ordered from Russia to the last screw? What's this about reducing addiction? Nothing at all. In the meantime, you claim - even though you have not examined the possibility that there are alternatives - that there is a need for atoms. Of course, if there is a specific zero development in the renewable sector, there really is no other way. But you've done this completely consciously, you're knowingly killing the renewable sector, and you're spending even the money of your grandchildren and their great-grandsons on nuclear technology. How did Viktor Orbán say it recently? Orbán said that we should be friends with concepts such as energy efficiency, energy saving or renewable energies. Instead, he managed to become friendly with Putin, so we arrived at today, when, under the leadership of the Prime Minister, you are expected to oppose all the national strategic statements made by former Viktor Orbán and offer this country to Vladimir Putin as a pledge for a EUR 10 billion nuclear loan. Viktor Orbán, who, according to his own memory and the public media, sent home the Russians who were here for 45 years alone in '89, now voluntarily and without any pressure, throws us to the Russians and calls them back. [[It shows a sign that says, "Is that why you changed the system, Viktor? Sallai R. Benedict is a "Not for Russian nuclear credit!"Dr. András Schiffer is a "Tell your own grandchildren!"And István Ikotity said, "Not Paks, not Putin!" He's putting a sign in the sky.]] And with this move, he's gonna slam the door in front of a bunch of solutions, their bone-boned, narrowed and outdated thinking and their damn greed, they're gonna keep us from increasing energy efficiency in this country, working with renewables, developing smart grids. This is all purple fog for you, gentlemen and ladies, but for us, for the new generations, for us, for the new generation of politicians, this is the future. We are warriors of a future for progressive Hungary. We don't need nuclear technology, we need renewables. It is now clear that Viktor Orbán has learned nothing in recent decades, and I can even say that he has learned nothing from the past centuries. So I'm gonna give him this book. [[He's showing it to me.]] which shows Viktor Orbán exactly what he has done in the last century. Look, gentlemen and ladies, the XX. We've already lost a century. CHAPTER XXI However, we do not want to lose a century, especially at the beginning of the century. It's obviously all the same to you now, you can't see or hear, you can't laugh and laugh, even though it's the fate of our grandchildren and great-grandsons. Yes, they have power, no doubt, but that power won't last forever. We're pretty tough, and I can promise you this: we're not gonna stand by and watch you rip this country apart, because unlike you, we don't owe it to Vladimir Putin, we owe it to our own electorate. We will not sell the country, we will not sell our future, and we will work even harder and even more indescribably for a renewable Hungary in view of your betrayal.
u2014-06-23-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Bernadett Wind puts the book just presented on Viktor Orbán's desk.]] I hereby declare that there has been a house-breaking disturbance, which I will propose in the House Committee. Let me also note that their style is not in proportion to their support. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2014-06-23-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and About what is true of this speech is that, indeed, today, Parliament will vote on the credit agreement that will be concluded between the Hungarian and Russian states. By the way, it's basically not true. [[Noise.]] I'm asking you which loan you'd choose. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't ask, because I can't answer.]] The 2008 loan taken from the IMF by the Socialist Government [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: If we're on the wheel, ask me.]] of which no contract has been concluded, no contract has been drawn up. [[Lajos Korózs: What does this have to do with this contract?]] and if ever a loan-indebted country, it was the 2008 IMF loan. Or you will choose the loan that is in front of you in the bill, which will describe, word for word, from whom, for what time, with what interest, under what conditions and for what purpose the Hungarian State will take a EUR 10 billion loan. I ask you that you take loans from the IMF, like Ferenc Gyurcsány, who later lay down the condition that economic and budgetary reports should be placed on the IMF's table... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The renewable sector...]]
u2014-06-23-4	Congresswoman, calm down and be quiet, please.
u2014-06-23-5	.......................................................................................................................................... then define social policy objectives, what should be done and what should not be done in Hungary, the abolition of the 13th month wage, the abolition of the 13th month pension and other conditions of the IMF loan. [[Lajos Korózs: Talk about Paks, András!]] Read the bill that Parliament is voting on today. It doesn't contain a word about it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Couldn't it be any of them?]] What policy, what economic policy, what fiscal policy and what social policy should be pursued in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This loan is about a Hungarian-owned development owned by Hungarian people, an expansion of a nuclear power plant, which is essentially a productive investment. A productive investment, which will produce for the Hungarian people and, where appropriate, will produce for export, which will provide revenue for Hungary, the Hungarian State. It will grow and be owned by the Hungarian State. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett raises a paper showing the following inscription: Is that why you changed the system, Viktor?]] This development is not a PPP investment made by the Socialists with great elan and love; it does not involve foreign capital and is not financed by foreign western banks, but will be financed on the basis of a financing contract concluded between two states, which the Hungarian State concludes on behalf of Hungarian people. 40 percent of this investment will be built by Hungarian people. This means a new job for ten thousand Hungarians and a significant revenue to the Hungarian State. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] This funding can be calculated, since the law clearly describes when to be repaid. The first repayment shall begin when the nuclear power plant is put into operation. Moreover, the mandate is given by a 2009 parliamentary decision to the government, which was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament by an 85% majority. Later, the national energy strategy adopted by Parliament confirmed this, and the Commissioner for Energy of the European Union also supported this investment in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This will indeed strengthen Hungary's energy security and reduce Hungary's vulnerability. What you are talking about will indeed strengthen Hungary's independence [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I believe every word you say.]] It will reduce the possibility of using gas services, gas energy, with energy produced in Hungary, which is not harmful to the environment. I believe that this development, this investment and this funding will serve Hungary's interests, not its speeches before the LMP agenda. I think that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament will do so in the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary in an hour or two when they adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]]
u2014-06-23-6	Dániel Z. Kárpát, from Jobbik's group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: " How long can the government wait, how much air is left for the credit-damaged? " with the title " Here you go.
u2014-06-23-7	Mr President, Dear House, At the end of next week, the government would close the work that it might follow only in the autumn, while the Curia's decision was open to doors, and although it is true that it offers new opportunities, as if it were not entirely against the will of the banks. Why can we say that? Clearly, because the banking will is connected with deleting the exchange rate gap, touching it, cosmeticizing a little on the terms. Even if you touch the interest issue, there is only one thing that should not happen: they do not want to be accounted for in foreign currency for something called loans that have been dumped on the Hungarian market; they also do not discuss nothing and do not have retroactive effect on banks. The government's reaction was most amazing, after he said very hard that, yes, he would like to lead these loans, which was said two years ago, three years ago, the full solution to the problem was also promised for last year, and then they predicted that they would put any package of solutions before Parliament in the autumn, after negotiating with the Banking Association and after leaving for summer break. On the other hand, we say that we would not insist on everyone going on vacation next week, neither would we. Let's work through the summer if we have to, but the credit crooks can't do it till autumn or until the Banking League gets a good deal on the government. I mean, what happens next? The spirit of action begins to decline spectacularly, and the will of the banks in the course of related amendments or new proposals is in order, as was the case when the banking sector special tax was allowed to pass on, as was the case when the transaction fee was passed, which, even last week, was expanded a little in terms of currency changes, hidden in a tax salad law, in one afternoon's debate, outside of television broadcasting. However, we can also say that if Hungary only had a fair touch on the interest issue and the current government of Hungary had the courage to take this very serious question, then it would be possible to ease the situation of tens of thousands of credit victims immediately. [[It's constant noise.]] We also have a number of cases ahead of us, a number of cases and contracts with an interest rate of 22 per cent. There was a bank that raised these interest rates every two weeks, and no one did anything: neither was the government at the time, and the amendments made by the then opposition - the then opposition group of Fidesz-KDNP - were equally absent, and the state supervisory system was silently assisting in this whole thing, to deceive the century. But if we look at only one figure and look at, let's say, the Polish sample, it may have been that the movement of the Swiss base rate was taken into account, and that, while it was 2.4 percent in 2007, it had already gone to 0,01 by 2014. [[13.20]] And if the payments had moved simultaneously and at least taken into account the same thing, the Hungarian people would not have suffered almost any extra undue burden. On the other hand, you, for the fifth year now, have allowed, assisted to pump hundreds of billions of people out of the pockets of the Hungarian people every year. That's not what happened in Poland. There they were able to say that if the Swiss base rate moves in this way, they should take this into account and follow this in the form of repayments. You do have to force a dictatorship on the banking system, not negotiate with it, not negotiate with it, not beg! The aim is to remain only a market player in Hungary who is able to operate for the benefit of the citizens who live here. Financial parasites are not needed by this country, nor by those whose main source of livelihood is not to rotate customers' money, not to take a little more income from large corporate and premium customers, but by making an undue profit to the population, the small person, the average person, or the person who is looking for it, and in a way that cannot be avoided by passing it on. Therefore, there is no government that can take this responsibility off its hands, no state supervision system that could say that it is not responsible on this issue, but it would not be possible to imagine a government in a normal country that is going on holiday and then, months later, to solve the whole problem on which the Banking Association's communication only noted that the Banking Association would expect it to be. Jobbik is of the opinion that a Banking Association should not be in a position in Hungary to impose expectations on either the government or the parliament. You can't have expectations. If you want to operate fairly in this market, your members can operate, but only those members of Hungary can be successful, happy and even growing, who take full account of citizens' interests. Therefore, we call upon the government not to think of taking a vacation, nor should it be possible to enter into too long negotiations with the Banking League; for once, be brave, and start that fight for once. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-8	Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, again.
u2014-06-23-9	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have good news and bad news. Which one should I start with? The bad news for you is that you won't be able to speak in Parliament much longer on the issue of foreign exchange creditors. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Four more years.]] - so much, four more years - because, according to the Curia's decision, the government and parliament will find a solution for this serious social problem, which affects hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary, to resolve, and will not give you or anyone else a reason to take account of either the government or the Parliament on this issue. That's bad news for you. The good news is that you are right: the government will not go on vacation, because the government will also meet every two weeks in the next period, so much so that at its meeting this Wednesday, it will discuss the tasks arising from the decision of the Curia, and, if you see it, you will perhaps present to Parliament during the summer. However, you also have to admit that the problem that has been created over the years, which has basically been caused by socialist governments in Hungary, which has basically brought more than 700 thousand families to the edge of the stump, bankrupted and insolvent, cannot be solved in a few weeks, in a few months, so that it is legal, that it is financially, legally, economically completely fine, and, at the same time, in accordance with the requirement of social justice. I also told you in my speech on Thursday that so far, the government and the Parliament, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, have helped foreign exchange creditors in 376 thousand cases, which means almost half of the people involved. I think that this decision will be the final solution for Hungarian citizens who are still having foreign exchange credit problems. So, as I mentioned to you, on Wednesday, the government will effectively discuss this problem. The Curia's decision, by the way, drew attention to three things. On the one hand, the question of exchange rate risk, in which it stated that it was unfair to pass exchange rate risk on to the consumer, to the borrower in the event that it was not notified in time and in detail of the risk that it would pose. It is illegal and illegal to replace sales and purchase prices and always the use of the damage to the consumer, since the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank should have been used. The resulting damage will have to be reimbursed to the injured party, to the financial institutions, to the banks that have committed unfairness. And the Curia also made a decision regarding the unilateral amendment of the contract. In essence, it also called this unfair, and it can only become acceptable to the consumer if it is clearly stated what is causing it. Honourable Congressman, The government and Parliament must make a very thoughtful and wise, responsible decision, because half-solutions lead nowhere. No one wants credit victims to face new legal difficulties and lawsuits after the settlement, no one wants the state or the clients to sue the banks in bulk, and no one wants any lawsuits against the state. So we need a solution that helps everyone, which is also legally clear, but at the same time ensures Hungary's financial security and financial balance. This is the solution we will present to the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-10	Now the Christian Democratic People's Party representative, István Simicskó: " Let us remember our great ones. " with the title " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the age of 88, Gyula Grosics, the national athlete, the Hungarian football team and the legendary goalkeeper of the gold team died after a long illness. In today's practical, rushing world, we often hear that no one is irreplaceable. But we know that there are irreplaceable people. Such irreplaceable people include our grandparents, parents, children, members of our family. Uncle Gyula Grosics was an irreplaceable member of the great family of our nation. He came from a poor mining family in Dorog, and his parents wanted him to be a priest or a violinist. Accordingly, he took violin lessons on weekdays, while on Sundays he attended an altar. How he finally became a football player, he told me that when he was 14 and a half years old, he used his bicycle to watch Dorog players in NB II prepare for their game in Komárom, but before the start, it turned out that the goalkeeper was missing, and even the backup gate was missing. Then the coach suddenly told the staring boy that you were coming to the game with us, you were gonna protect me. He left, went instinctively to the ball, as he said, and by 2:1 they won the match against the team in Komárom. So I became, says he, 15 years old, a goalie instead of a priest. The church may have lost a future priest, but the entire nation has won a world-class goalkeeper. He was a three-time Hungarian champion in the colors of the Honvéd. He took the field in 390 championships. Between 1948 and 1954 he was the permanent starting goal of the undefeated Hungarian team. Between 1947 and 1962, he was the goalkeeper of the team 86 times. In terms of the team's performance, failure was rare, 59 wins, 14 draw and only 13 losing matches, with a total score of 96 goals while the team scored 258 goals. [[13.30]] He was a member of the winning Hungarian national team at the Helsinki Olympics in 1952. At three World Cups, 1954, '58 and '62, he defended the World Cup gate. It was part of the match of the century, the famous 6:3 victory in London, which was played in 1953. Later, he became the silver medalist of the world championship of '54 in Bern. After the 1956 Revolution, he was dragged into the "wings " of the State Protection Authority, and was banned from playing for a year. After 56, exiled from Pest, he could continue at the gate of Tatabánya, where he played until 1963. In 1964, he stopped playing football because he wasn't allowed to testify to Ferencváros. After 86 national teams, he left in the autumn of 1962 in the fight against the Yugoslavs. He's been invited to the World Series six times. After his retreat, he continued his career as a coach. The nickname "black panther " was given by its characteristic black jersey and its flexible movement with excellent reflexes. He was also able not only to guard the net but also to control the defense, and he continued to live with the game, sometimes leaving his gate far away, fighting and encouraging his teammates as almost a fourth defender. Ladies and gentlemen, We lost an excellent man, we lost a real national treasure, an athlete of the nation, who, as an athlete and as a human, showed us an example and direction from human stamina and struggle from knowledge. In February of this year, we celebrated his 87th birthday together with 500 children at the Gyula Grosics Sports School in NewBuda named after him. It was a permanent experience for all of us. We'll keep his memory forever. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-23-12	At the same time, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, on behalf of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda: "The Hunger Games. " Here you go.
u2014-06-23-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, On June 10, one newspaper reported that Blikk reported that poor teenage children were being fought against each other in one of the toughest fighting sports in MMA - that particular cage fight - without headguards, under adult rules, and in the last tournament three children were called to an ambulance for serious injuries. A girl in her 10 or 12 years of age started drowning because she was kicked in the throat. A 16-year-old boy had a ruptured lung. Another child suffered a skull injury. The sportsman asked the reporter who asked him: Do you have to write an article about this? I ask the House and my fellow Members: must we speak today about this phenomenon, this serious social symptom, in Parliament? I think I do. The news, in itself, is shocking and terrifying. We are all cold about the fact that such a thing exists in Hungary. Honestly, I didn't know that juveniles and children were fighting each other in a cage fight today. Of course, I'm not saying that any of us would otherwise be responsible for this one-time terrible event. However, I say that the social policy that we have in Hungary today, and it is a very serious symptom of which, indeed, you have been very seriously responsible since 2010. In Hungary today, the number of people living below the minimum of living has increased by 1.5 million since 2010, and they are also responsible for not being able to solve the serious social and economic conflicts and problems that the political elite has been rolling around since the change of regime. My heart was really stuck, and I was shocked when the leader of this association said he admitted that it was actually the sport of the poor. That these children have no other way of breaking out from where they were born unless they're being fought in cages. Quite simply, the problem begins here when the head of a club, the leader of an association, openly admits today in Hungary that they have no other chance. Well, they could have a different chance. It could only be approached from a sporting point of view. I have heard from the government that there is a need to change the sports law here, and it is necessary to amend it in the autumn, because it is not tolerated that children under the age of 14 should be competed under such conditions. But the question must be asked whether it will solve the problem, the set of problems, the serious social problem and the conflict that this case actually draws attention to. I understand, fellow Members, that you are today destined to promote sport as a mobility channel, so that the stadiums in Hungary will grow into mushrooms. But believe me, the most powerful stadium will collapse if it grows at the expense of the school system and education. This is what we have been telling you for years, fellow Members. You need to ask by two thirds whether the education system that you have created is the only way out of poverty for these children to rise. Ask yourself, over and over again, whether nationalisation of schools provides a better service, whether it gives these children a helping hand to get out of poverty. If I mention just one, a 16-year-old school commitment delivery. Fellow Members, have you asked yourself the question of what will happen to these children who fall out of school without a profession? Can they go fight in the cage? But I could also talk about child hunger, because we're not talking about it out of pass, not because it's sexy for a congressman to talk about what's going on with child hunger, but it's also a serious symptom. But we could also talk about the Secretary of State for segregation, the social funeral and the community service program that goes nowhere. But the real question is what kind of morality are you and the party whose former party banker takes out a dividend of HUF 22 billion almost exclusively from government orders. Look, fellow Members. It's the political elite's common cause. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm asking you not to lose your senses and your sobriety at least once you've lost your sensitivity. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2014-06-23-14	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I'd like to split my answer into two parts, Congresswoman. I think there's a first part that's really about these child fights that don't have party politics. I think we were all shocked when we saw these pictures, we read these reports about the tournaments organized in Hungary with the participation of minors and minors. This is not just a Hungarian problem, if you look into the issue, you can see that there are millions of people in the United States who are involved in these fights, and a series of prosecutions have been launched in England. But I think that none of us can tolerate what happened here in Hungary at the end of May, when these children, these juveniles, really left these cages with such serious injuries - and I think these are not only physical but also psychological injuries - because according to the invitation, they asked that anyone with a pupil of around 10 years of age also bring them to these tournaments. That's why we moved from government to government as soon as possible. On 11 June, Mr Simicskó, State Secretary, agreed with the competent vice-president of the Hungarian Olympic Committee on behalf of the EMMI, and asked that such so-called full contact struggles should not be under 14 years of age. Honestly, I don't like this kind of struggle between adults, and it's important to consider whether there's a need for this, an unbridled aggression. But being under 18 years old, underage or underage is totally unacceptable. We did not agree with this practice, we expected and expect the competent department of the Hungarian Olympic Committee to make a legislative amendment proposal, which I think we can all support here, the opposition parties and the governing parties. In addition, the Christian Democratic People's Party has also filed a complaint to investigate whether there has been inciting, coercion, reckless endangerment, endangerment of minors or any other crime. I personally spoke with Attorney General Péter Polt about the case. He promised not only to investigate the criminal part of this particular case, but also to explore whether the various authorities' permits or steps have been taken in this case. [[13.40]] This is important because such a battle, such a struggle, cannot take place in Hungary or elsewhere in the world. We have criminal instruments to reduce these, but we have to use these criminal law instruments, because it is unacceptable for children to fight in these circumstances often without a headguard, often to reach the ground and even to be kicked there. I think, I said at the beginning, that this is not only physical, but also psychological, maiming. Such brutality cannot be for anyone, especially among children, either in admission fees or in betting amounts or in anything else. We have acted against this in the past, and we will continue to do so in the future. In order to protect children, the government has taken timely action in both sports and criminal matters. As for the second part of the speech by the Member, the spread of poverty: you know that you have played a very significant part in this. If I could just tell you a sequence of numbers or numbers: the proportion of people living in poverty in Hungary was around 4 percent at the beginning of your governance, and by the end it grew to over 8 percent. Indeed, this figure has slightly increased over four years, but this kind of brutal growth rate [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. Lajos Korózs: Oh, stop talking!]] which has doubled the proportion of people living in poverty [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In Hungary, this was smaller and only increased by 1 percent. When you didn't support the reduction of the rent [[Lajos Korózs: 'Cause it's all bullshit!]] when you did not support, for example, the restructuring of education, have you considered whether it is precisely the most difficult for the needy. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Do you reject help in expenditures when you always talk about the interests of service providers? When you're beating up the state's reservation to educational institutions, think about it, this could create a chance for everyone to have a II. district school and a Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county school have the same maintainer and provide the same funding security for both. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: None of them get paid!]] Obviously, in the school of a district in Western Hungary or in Buda, the wages of teachers were safe, the reservation was safe, it may not have happened in other parts of the country. As for the children's meals, you know very well, this summer there will be more money to support children's meals, HUF 2.6 billion than ever in Hungary. We hope that this will help reduce deprivation in the summer as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-16	He also applied for a speech before the agenda and, last, on behalf of the Fidesz, Mr Antal Rogán Group leader: "About our common affairs. " Here you go.
u2014-06-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, After today's Fidesz parliamentary group meeting, I would like to make two requests to the government here in Parliament. The first request simply sounds like I would like to ask the government to act as decisively as possible against tax bluffers. Four years ago, when we decided on a fair public burden in this House, we introduced the bank tax, the special taxes on multinational companies, because we were of the opinion that in Hungary, not only families, not only Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but also multinational corporations that make huge profits, will have to pay taxes abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why I think it is right to ask: if there is an international group with a turnover of HUF 25.8 billion in 2012, the pre-tax result is HUF 6 billion for HUF 650 million, in 2013 its turnover is HUF 23.7 billion and its pre-tax profit is HUF 2 billion for HUF 300 million, then why does this company not pay corporate income tax? How can an international group of companies, using Hungarian tax legislation and accounting legislation, be able to otherwise use various accounting tricks to blick and juggle taxes, and definitely avoid taxes? Ladies and gentlemen, Although this company is an international television multi-company, the RTL Club, I think it must pay taxes. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But they all do it!]] You have to pay all taxes. It is not enough to boast that you pay taxes anyway, because Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, if they have profits, will also have to pay corporate income tax on their profits. We should therefore have the right to ask what tax bluffing, what tax juggling has enabled the television company in question to achieve in Hungary, that it has not paid corporate income tax after two billion years of profit before tax. We would expect a firm examination of this from the Government, and we would ask the Government to present its findings on this and the necessary steps to ensure that this cannot happen again, to be made public, and even to present it to Parliament with the support of the Group. The other very important issue I would like to put to the government is the management of foreign currency loans. After the last decision made by the Curia, I think it is quite clear to all of us that we must take decisive and strong steps here, because what happened today is that the court and even the supreme court have stated in Hungary that banks have acted unfairly against foreign exchange creditors on several issues. Therefore, the first step is definitely the legal solution. However, it is also necessary, of course, to take the necessary steps to ensure that foreign exchange loans are definitively removed from Hungary in order to eliminate the exchange rate risk. But we can do this in two different steps, and the first step is to make sure that the government develops the legal solution that is necessary to ensure that where they have acted unfairly against foreign exchange lenders, all the money that has been taken unfairly from them can otherwise be recovered. We are aware that, according to the Curia's decision, this could normally only be done through litigation, but I think that the government has the opportunity to shorten these lawsuits, to move the burden of proof to the other side, where appropriate, and to make the necessary legislative amendments in Parliament as soon as possible. I would like to ask the Government to draw up amendments to the law on legal action at the next two government meetings until the end of Parliament's session, which is until 4 July. If these are born, on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group, I can promise that Parliament will discuss this, if necessary, before the spring session is over, so before the end of the summer, and in this case I ask the opposition parties to provide us with the necessary derogations from the house rules in this House. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-18	Thank you. Once again, I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2014-06-23-19	Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the introduction and adoption of the advertising tax is fully in line with the transformation of the Hungarian tax system, since, in addition to the reduction of income taxes, in addition to the reduction of personal income tax, corporate tax rates, turnover and consumption taxes were introduced and increased in the last four years. The introduction of a tax on advertising is also fully in line with the banking tax and the multinational special tax, since the advertising tax involves a sector with a high profit in the burden of public burdens, which, with a high turnover, could generate high profits and profits. So it is not a company, but a service, that comes into the sight of public burdens, and these operators must pay or pay additional taxes, who increase their revenues by advertising. It is true that Parliament quickly decided to introduce this tax, and the law includes the possibility of a one-off tax reduction for those affected by 2014. For those who have a defined loss, 50 per cent of the retained loss may be deducted from the tax base. However, as life does, creative people are able to figure out how to avoid extra taxes, as they stick to their extra profits and not extra taxes. [[13.50]] This is why it can also be interpreted that some companies may involve a loss that is set aside in the reduction of their tax base, which may not be reduced by the loss they have produced before, but by the acquisition of other companies, which is undesirable in the Hungarian tax procedure. Therefore, I consider it to be unreasonable, and I agree that those who try to escape the payment of advertising tax with such tricks, such a method, and try to avoid paying taxes, should be excluded, and I consider it worthwhile to clarify the legislation to those who wish to make use of such a possibility, so as to avoid paying taxes with such a trick and such artificial loss. As I said in other speeches before this, in my speech before the agenda, as a matter of expectation, I agree with the suggestion made by Mr Group leader that the Government and Parliament should act as quickly as possible on the issue of foreign exchange creditors. Indeed, first, the government must find legal solutions, agreeing that the government's proposal should be brought before the Parliament, and the Parliament will adopt the solution in the form of a law, and on this basis the relevant customers, consumers and the financial institutions concerned must clearly implement the law. We also agree that no one wants a multitude of lawsuits to start in Hungary as a result, so that hundreds of thousands of clients concerned may be subject to additional costs, which is not in anyone's interest. Therefore, it is in the interest to have a legal solution that is responsible, which covers the parties concerned in full and is a definitive solution in economic terms rather than creating a new legal procedure. This is the solution the government will be working on and will start drawing up the bill on Wednesday. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Kiss, Zoltán Magyar, Sebestyén Vágó, Lajos Kepli, and István Ikotity and R. Benedek LMP representatives applied for the speech after the agenda today. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we will decide on a motion to amend the agenda. The MSZP group proposed that the T/140 on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the granting of a State loan to the Government of Hungary to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary. The Commission's reports and the final vote on the legislative proposal No 1 shall not be debated at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the presidential recommendation. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts my recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Now, at 1:55 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear House, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior: " Was the promise to the property guards a campaign? " The title is given below. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last October, I made an interpellation to the Ministry of Interior and the public's attention to the untenable conditions of employment of property guards. I pointed out that the average take-up price on the market does not even cover the minimum wage use of property keepers, the direct consequence of which is the total disregard of labour law legislation in the area. Mr Secretary, according to your reply at that time, the government has nothing to do with this situation, because, I quote you literally, " The price is determined by the market, demand and supply, and the state can do nothing but choose from the low bid in public procurement. " Guaranteeing the minimum price in October last year, according to BM's position - and I quote - " would have an opposite effect on market balance ". This is a true conservative, we could say orthodox proof of why vulnerable workers have been left to their fate. However, in February this year, in the middle of the election campaign, this strict principle was suddenly softened and the minimum fees for hours in the private security sector were provided for in law. The drafts of the necessary regulations have also been prepared for this, and only Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's signature is missing. However, the great momentum in the election campaign has now fallen spectacularly. Even though the government formation took place weeks ago, the government decree still did not include Viktor Orbán's signature. Every week, there will be a stronger suspicion that the promise to introduce minimum overhead fees was nothing more than just a campaign. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] So I ask Mr. Secretary: when did they tell the truth? Is your point of view at present in October last year, or are the spring plans to introduce the minimum hourly rate in the area? If your promise wasn't just a campaign stunt, please make a statement, when will the regulations on this issue be published? Will the minimum fee for property protection services reach HUF 1889 officially proposed for you by the Private Security Sectoral Dialogue Committee and the Professional Chamber? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-23-22	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2014-06-23-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems that you have already started campaigning for municipal elections, but you are doing so without being aware of the necessary backgrounds. In order to improve the employment situation of property managers, the amendment of the Law on the Rules of Protection of Persons and Property and Private Investigators came into force in March 2014 and, in this context, only and only in the case of public procurement procedures, we introduced the minimum fee for property protection services. I would like to inform you that we do not intend to affect market pricing any longer. On the basis of the authorisation provisions provided for by the law amendment, it was possible to draft a Government Decree on Rules of Procedure for setting a fee for property protection services. This draft includes the rules of procedure for setting the property protection fee, which have been discussed in detail with both the Professional Chamber of Persons, Property Protection and Private Investigators and the Private Security Sectoral Dialogue Committee. Following the establishment of the procedure procedure, it was possible to start the development of a BM regulation on the rate of minimum asset protection service fees for 2014. Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the amendment of the law, during the procurement procedures, it was possible for the contracting authority to apply the procurement rules for the examination of a disproportionately low price in the case of an offer below the minimum fee for asset protection services and to classify the justification requested from the tenderer as being incompatible with economic rationality. However, it should be pointed out that the minimum fee for property protection services should only be taken into account when assessing the disproportionately low price, but that failure to comply with it does not automatically lead to the declaration of invalidity of the offer. This ensures that the regulation is also compatible with European Court of Justice practice, according to which price levels which constitute automatic exclusion cannot be determined, but should always be decided on the basis of a dialogue between the tenderer and the contracting authority, taking into account the circumstances, on the feasibility of the offer. Given that the amendment of the law has already made a clear decision to set the asset protection fee, I can assure you that it was not just a campaign. The government is working on the legislation for its implementation, which will be published in the Hungarian Gazette after their adoption. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-06-23-24	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-25	Dear Secretary of State, I think it's getting a little embarrassing and pathetic, that after you lecture me, you'll confirm what I asked you in my question, and you won't answer any of my questions. Yes, I told you that the bill was passed, I know that, because I saw the draft, Mr. Secretary, it's ready, it's not signed, it's not published. I asked you if you'd like to accept it, and if so, be kind here to tell the public when. You didn't answer my question, Mr. Secretary. Its response cannot be accepted for this reason either, and it cannot be accepted because of the uncertainty of the tens of thousands of people working in the affected area. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-26	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Volner, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " Why do businesses have to pay for the online connection of cash registers when you consider that the budget has an additional revenue of nearly HUF 100 billion? " The title is given below. Congressman János Volner has the floor.
u2014-06-23-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, When it was decided by the government that all Hungarian cash registers should be connected to the tax office online, of course, many of us agreed on this, as it helps save tax forints that are now disappearing into the black economy. However, we have found that the government, as it has already stated in the last government cycle, is trying to solve this series of measures on the part of entrepreneurs, bearing the costs of this measure on the part of entrepreneurs. In practice, there was a Ministry of National Economy impact study, according to which the state received HUF 94.5 billion in additional revenue from this measure, but they still make the entrepreneurial sector the burden of the measures, entrepreneurs who are not standing too bright, stand here in a bloody, poor country, from which 500 thousand Hungarians went abroad, and bear these costs while their orders were severely reduced. The question here is why the government did not support the right-wing amendment that we submitted to the Parliament that, in the case of businesses with a sales space of less than 1000 square meters, the State itself should be the burden-bearing party, because if there is any justification, it is that we should help small and medium-sized enterprises by providing the government with an additional revenue of HUF 94.5 billion of a measure, then we should not throw these costs at the hands of entrepreneurs, and we should help them in a greater proportion. There was a small amount of funding, but recently the Ministry also stopped this, and this possibility was also closed. If you enter the system now, you can pay as a military officer. The question here is why Fidesz has been silent in its 2010 election programme about wanting to impose such burdens on entrepreneurs. There is no program now either, so obviously this year's programme cannot be taken into account, but we are curious that if the government has a concrete opportunity to help entrepreneurs with a budget increase of nearly HUF 100 billion by at least not increasing their burden, but accepting these costs, then why not do so. I have to say, in the same chair, Secretary of State Cséfalvay sat in the last term of government, and he did not understand the question, even though we asked him quite clearly why the State was not the burden-bearing one if they were expecting such a significant surplus of budget revenue. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-28	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-23-29	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The first and most important thing is that Jobbik agrees that online cash registers are needed in retail and that the entire commercial sector should be provided with this. I think that if we agree on this issue, that the Hungarian economy must be whitened, that revenues from trade should be transparent and clean, and that traders who illegally sell their goods and services should be excluded from the market, if we agree on that, the rest is already a matter of detail. So I think it is also a question of detail, which we are talking about here, that is to say, that you are raising the question of how much support the State is now giving to the traders concerned to buy their work equipment. I stress, the cash register is a work tool. The state, the government, has said that it provides 50,000 forints for each cash register in a uniform, subjective way. You disagree. You say that this should not be done in this way, but in such a way as to distinguish between entrepreneur and entrepreneur by business size. You understand, Congressman, and we disagree. We agree that we give support, we give uniform support to all cash registers, and the amount and amount of this must be 50 thousand forints. There is no correlation between what you are pushing for, how much additional revenue this measure brings to the State, and how much of this support the government will give back to those concerned, essentially the State, since that is not what the aid system should be about, it is not a commission system that the State is working out: if you are a good trader and entrepreneur and you bring more revenue to the State, then you will get back a free cash register as a commission. The aid scheme must be about something else, obviously job creation, the development of tools and technology. Therefore, we do not agree with what you say about linking the size and size of the business. I have to say, however, that the measure is already a success, as VAT declarations show that VAT revenue has increased significantly in the first months of 2014 due to the connection of online cash registers, by about HUF 17 billion, ensuring a 29 percent increase in the retail sector. But the total commercial sector also increased significantly by HUF 55 billion compared to the same period last year. That's a 15 percent increase. I believe that this measure has already had its impact, which, by the way, I stress, we agree. I think that this higher income can mean two things, both of which should be welcomed. Or higher consumption, which is why people have spent more and thus increased their consumption tax; or perhaps, what has been a hidden income and has not affected public finances, is now being reported through online cash registers and is being paid to the State. A total of 118 thousand online cash registers operate in Hungary today, and so far some 500 million data have been received by the NAV. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-30	I will ask Mr János Volner if he will accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-31	Of course, we are not in a position to accept the answer. Mr. Secretary, I have to say, you've been very rude. This was a question of why the state would provide work equipment to entrepreneurs. Secretary of State, as you well know, these entrepreneurs have already used a cash register, and you have forced them to replace many new, well-functioning cash registers for the sake of the government. It is clear that in this case, the State should bear this increase in revenue from the budget, as entrepreneurs should be burdened with what the State is looking for, from which the State derives a significant surplus of budget revenue, to put it mildly, not a decent thing. Once again, you have put another burden on entrepreneurs, the sokadi, and, of course, in the end, you are surprised that the Hungarian entrepreneurial society is bleeding out, and the Hungarian economy is becoming increasingly uncompetitive. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-32	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, Wind Bernadett and Sallai R. Benedek, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: " Waiting for collapse? " The title is given below. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2014-06-23-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Then a little more about the energy sector. You are certainly aware that there is a report by the United Nations Renewable Energy Panel that says that world renewable energy production has reached a record level. Renewable energy now accounts for one fifth of the final energy consumption when it comes to electricity, but in 2013 56 percent of installed capacity comes not from atoms, but from sun, wind, biomass, water or earth heat. The direction in which the world is going is completely against where you are taking Hungary, and according to the latest independent surveys, it is also contrary to the way Hungarian citizens think about their own future. The growing green energy economy is based everywhere on the philosophy that local energy needs must be met as close as possible to the location of use, in small and distributed systems, so that energy consumption can also stay in place and strengthen the local economy. This is what LMP has been talking about for years, local economic development. Now, Hungary has taken a completely different train, and this train is running unbroken into nothing. With us, the renewables industry has been in a tragic situation as a result of the government's actions, on the one hand, its performance is currently lower than 2010 when you started to govern in the previous cycle, on the other hand, it has stabilised at this disappointingly low level and has not changed for years, while it is growing throughout Europe. In addition, you are trying to compensate this gloomy situation with a variety of victory reports, such as the fact that the share of renewables in total energy consumption has even increased, but you do not add that this is all because of the crisis that reduced energy consumption. But you also say that solar power production has roughly tripled in one year. Of course, they are modestly silent about the fact that solar energy is at one percent within the entire renewable energy system. One percent in Hungary. But let's talk about wind power. You have been the government that has not developed a single windmill in this country in the last four years. To quote the report: At the end of 2013, the installed wind power plant capacity was 328.93 megawatts, which was explicitly stagnating compared to the previous year. Now, what is the reason for this stagnation? According to the report, you didn't put up a tender. Why didn't they put out a tender? - I'm asking you. Meanwhile, more and more money is being put into nuclear power, making Vladimir Putin a debt slave, centralising energy, and increasing energy supply. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Doctor!]] The Hungarian Government believes that you are, however, working on the development of the renewable energy sector. I would like to know, Honourable Secretary of State. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Your time is over!]] What exactly is this going to look like: what are you planning on doing in the renewables sector, there's going to be a change, or are we going to watch this movie?
u2014-06-23-34	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-06-23-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government implements energy policy along the national energy strategy adopted by Parliament in 2011, in consultation with civil and scientific organisations and industry representatives. Accordingly, in addition to increasing energy efficiency and active energy market participation by the state, we will continue to support the use of renewable energy sources, and we will also take the necessary steps to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Unlike you, we are not doing the two against each other, but we are doing the two on the assumption of each other. The results of the online research, quoted by the Member, with only 500 people, contradict the latest opinion poll by the MVM group. According to a representative public opinion poll conducted by TNS Hoffmann for the MVM group between 30 April and 14 May 2014, among more than a thousand people over the age of 15 years, 74 percent of the population supports the operation of a nuclear power plant in Hungary and 58 percent of the Hungarian population expressly agrees with the maintenance of the Paks nuclear power plant, recognising the fundamental issues of security and affordability of energy supply. The respondents consider keeping the price of electricity at an affordable level and reducing the country's energy dependency to be the main result of the Paks investment. The creation of new nuclear power stations will have a positive impact on carbon-free energy production and this will also have an economic recovery effect. We are indeed witnessing a structural shift in the domestic renewable electricity market, and it also helps to catch up on rural areas by ensuring the principle of locally mentioned production and local use. The fact that in certain countries of the European Union, attractive support schemes have caused price increases and systemic regulatory problems of such a magnitude as to require retroactive regulation with negative content in at least 12 countries of the EU has certainly escaped your attention. This has also led the European Commission to take action. The new Guidelines on environmental and energy aid for the period 2014-2020, published on 9 April this year, imposed strict conditions on the eligibility of renewable electricity installations. In the light of these processes, it is confirmed to the government that the use of renewable energy should be preferred, which clearly contributes to reducing both retail and industrial energy prices. We are therefore planning to reduce energy consumption by energy efficiency measures, i.e. reducing specific consumption, while maintaining the existing production aid principle until 2020, and in particular increasing renewable energy consumption for heating. We also ask for the support of the Member and the LMP. Thank you for your consideration. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-36	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer. The way I see it, Sallai R. Benedek is responding.
u2014-06-23-37	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll respond. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the answer; there are many reasons why I cannot accept it. Firstly, countering the perception of Hungarian society on nuclear energy. If you are so convinced that Hungarian society supports this initiative, why do you not support any referendum on this matter in order to give an opinion? Second. If you say that it is always necessary to support renewable energy sources, then what is it that, while it is being borrowed for the development of a nuclear reactor and is being financed by a hundred percent public funding, all the improvements that would develop renewable energy sources in small regions, building engineering, insulation, but are not supported only by 27-30 percent support, because there are small entrepreneurs there, not large construction opportunities? So overall, looking at the German and European systems and the share of renewable energy sources there, it is clear that Europe is trying to catch up with the 2020 targets, while Hungary is lagging behind.
u2014-06-23-38	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 105 votes in favour, 28 against and 16 abstentions, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Riz, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " How does stable economic growth help the growth of Hungarian families? " with the title " Congressman Gábor Riz has the floor.
u2014-06-23-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian GDP of the first quarter published by KSH shows a 3.5 percent increase compared to the previous year. Thus, Hungary now has the third fastest economic growth in the European Union after Romania and Poland. [[14.20]] This shows that gross domestic product expansion of up to 2.5 per cent is higher than the expected 2 per cent growth in 2014 as a whole. In addition to continuously improving export performance, both domestic demand and consumption have been positive, which shows that economic growth has become more balanced. For example, in April 2014, retail sales increased by 4.2 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, food and food-related mixed retail sales increased by 8.2 percent and non-food retail sales increased by 6.6 percent. Retail consumption is expected to continue to increase this year due to low inflation and rising real wages. The economic processes of recent years are drawing up a growth path at the end of which the aim could be to draw closer to the more developed European Member States. The improved economic and budgetary results made it possible to increase support for families. The family tax system introduced in 2011 supports the adoption of the first child in order to encourage childbearing without a income limit. Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, this year there will be nearly HUF 230 billion more income than some 900 thousand Hungarian families. Dear Secretary of State, Historically low inflation levels and continued growth in trade have resulted in nearly 3 percent real wage growth over the past year. The financial situation of Hungarian families has improved significantly as a result of the increase in employment, wage increases and family tax incentives available, and the strengthening of confidence indices is also very good. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how stable economic growth helps the growth of Hungarian families. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-40	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-23-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government that took office in 2010 has put the economy on a sustainable and balanced path to growth in the process of stabilising the country's economic, financial situation and has reached a decisive turn in the fight for greater employment for people of working age. The government's effectiveness is supported by the macroeconomic figures of recent months, which are also outstanding in international comparison: in the first quarter of 2014, the growth of the Hungarian economy increased to 3.5 percent; such a strong expansion was last registered in 2006. At the same time as the recovery of the economy, there are positive developments in the labour market. The number of people with jobs outnumbered 4.1 million. Compared to the situation four years ago, 320,000 more people are working today. Our country is at the forefront of creating jobs among the countries that have recently joined the EU. In Hungary alone, the number of people with work incomes exceeded the pre-crisis level in 2008. In line with the increase in the number of posts, the proportion of active persons has also increased. In recent years, Hungary has exceeded the average of regional competitors and the European Union, while the unemployment rate has fallen below the EU average. Net earnings have increased by 14 percent over the last four years and their purchasing value has increased by nearly 7 percent in 2013. The government has restored the honor of the work. Thanks to family tax incentives, the income of children's children has increased even more than the average. As a result of the reduction in the costs, inflation has decreased to such a low level as has not been seen since 1968. The savings of Hungarian families have increased by HUF 2500 billion in the last four years. To this end, it has contributed significantly to the fact that by reducing the cost of housing maintenance, more than HUF 300 billion will remain in the family register every year. The government has also achieved significant results in resolving the situation of foreign exchange lenders: the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier, the possibility of switching loans to preferential forints and the National Asset Manager have been able to help nearly 400 thousand currency-installed governments so far. Due to balanced and stable economic growth, the number of jobs continues to increase, which is expected to result in a steady employment rate of over 4 million people in Hungary. A further increase will be expected from the growing labour needs of the competitive sector and from the growing public employment. The improvement in the financial situation of Hungarian families is clearly reflected by the dynamic increase in retail sales in recent months, and the persistently high level of consumer confidence indexes anticipates a further recovery in household consumption, which is also supported by the government's measures to reduce household burdens. Overall, the increase in employment, the increase in the purchasing value of earnings, the reduction in housing costs and the reduction in personal income tax will result in the stabilisation and financial growth of the income situation of families. Mr President, thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-42	I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-43	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. It is reassuring for Hungarian families that the Orbán government, as promised earlier, will allow additional funds to remain in the register of families after the economic stabilisation, as well as additional resources to improve the quality of life, raise children and relax together. Even in areas of former economic depression such as my constituency, Ozd and its region, the increase in economic performance has already made it feel positive. Small and medium-sized enterprises operating here have expanded their employment by around 1000-1500 in the last three years. Improved performance in working families already has the effect of increasing consumption and increasing demand for services. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-44	I understand that the congressman has accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " Vacation in the textbook market? " with the title " Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi shall have the floor.
u2014-06-23-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I miss the Secretary of State not being in the room. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Am I not good?]] Well, then I'm gonna ask the question of who's on the government's side. So it's summer, and the kids are off on their well-deserved vacation, but I see that the government is continuing its policy of destroying education, and it's better to back down in this area. The problem is that the distribution of the textbook has already been nationalised, Kello has been entrusted with this task, and we can see how much malfunctions have been encountered in the distribution of textbooks in recent years. Many times in Hungary the children did not receive the textbook in time, there was a teacher who taught a course all year long without having received the textbook, although Minister Balog replied that he saw that it was not necessary, Congresswoman, that the children should have a textbook. But the parents were asked in advance for the money, the textbook money, but the teachers who were in the school for the distribution of textbooks could not be paid in time. Now, my problem is that they don't learn from it and want to nationalise not only the distribution of the textbook, but also the textbook development and publication in Hungary. The two nationalized publishers selected by the government, the Knowledge of Generations Book Publisher - this is the former National Book Publisher - and the Apáczai Publisher, unfortunately, are placed in a legal position without competition. More than 80 percent of schools, regardless of quality or content, have to order their publications. Private publishers can work only in the increasingly narrowing market of church and foundation schools. As a result of this step, the freedom of teachers to choose textbooks is violated, in my opinion, the freedom of teaching, the freedom of methodology, and you will throw into the trash in a few minutes, in 20 years of experience, high quality textbooks and 20 years of established knowledge. This system completely eliminates competition between textbooks, i.e. there is no more motivation for the development and compilation of ever better teaching materials. For years, decades, everything can remain the same, while the world is transforming around us year after year. I ask the government when they want to finish the policy on uniforming, it's about the equatorial book, and when they realize that the world is passing by Hungary, we have to adapt to that. [[14.30]] You will not be able to stop the modernisation, the equatorial book will not be able to help the mobilization of children, the outbreak of poverty. But if you can only answer me the question of whether there will be a textbook for Hungarian children in Hungary in autumn, I thank you with great respect.
u2014-06-23-46	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-23-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If I were to answer with just one word, I would obviously say that there will be, because they are working on both the Ministry of Human Resources, the study districts, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center and the publishers, the printers, to make sure that everything works out in September this year, when the students receive their textbooks. But you have not failed to repeat the untruths that the MSZP has already said in relation to previous textbook distribution and textbook provision. You're visualizing it as if there was a huge problem with the delivery of textbooks. You know very well, last year, too, this year we have to send about 12 million textbooks to schools, with a total of 30,000 of 12 million textbooks having any problems, delays, or later coming to schools with these textbooks. This obviously shows the magnitude of the fact that, although there have been delays every previous year - I think everyone can remember their own school years, whether all their textbooks have always arrived correctly on 1 September or not - but I have to say that the delivery of 12 million textbooks has passed a good test last year. In December 2013, we adopted the textbook law, the national textbook provision law, the 2013 CCXXXII. a law which reflects the increased responsibility of the State in this system. Our aim is to ensure that the textbook supply is more efficient and more uniform at the same time, that all students have the same chance of starting, that each student has the same opportunity to acquire knowledge from the textbooks, and that not the financial situation of the parents, not the budgetary management of the maintenance government, dictates whether students have the opportunity to learn from a good book or not, but whether it is provided for everyone, to be born in Eastern or Western Hungary, in the capital or in a small settlement. Therefore, the state has a greater role to play both in the production of textbooks and in the distribution of textbooks and in keeping costs at a low level. And that does not mean looking at the past at all, Madam honourable Member, because our aim is to make sure that the 21st century is not the past. Get textbooks that meet the challenges of the century, and get quality textbooks that deliver competitive knowledge to everyone. This is why the current system supports the introduction, application and preparation of experimental textbooks more than previously. The textbook list proposed by the maintainers is intended to serve the effectiveness of the care. There were many external experts involved in the preparation of textbooks on the basis of their own practical aspects or on the basis of their educational experience at the university, but the staff of both the State Secretariat, the Education Office and the Institute for Education and Development, of OFI participated in this. And if a school can provide textbooks for a course in a given class from the library file, then textbooks do not necessarily have to be ordered on the basis of this list. The publishers you mentioned, purchased by the state, have significantly reduced the cost of textbooks. The support that goes to the schools is equal to the amount of textbook supply. So schools have increased their scope, with an average of 10-20 percent more choice, because the publishers who have purchased state property bring these books at a cheaper price, and those who are involved in the experimental textbook development program can get some books 70 percent cheaper. Overall, we can say that the total savings are therefore HUF 1.5 billion each year in addition to this in the textbook market, precisely through textbook law and public-owned publishers. So I think this is the way, this is the new textbook law. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] publish new generation textbooks and give schools the choice of mandatory subjects. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-48	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-49	I cannot accept Mr. Secretary's reply. By the way, Mr. Secretary, ask the teachers, the parents and children who didn't get the textbook. I know how many million textbooks have been scattered around the country, but you know how much failure it is for every child, and you know it if the textbook doesn't show up in time and the teachers can't start working in time. Look, Secretary of State, because of the shortness of time, I would like to tell you once again that you understand. It's not that you want an equally high level of quality for a Kazincbarcika child, a kid from Kiskunmajsa and a rose hill child, the goal is good. All you have to do is understand that with a uniformized textbook market, an equalized textbook, experimental textbooks, throwing away 20 years of knowledge in the country, you're not gonna be able to do that. Then at least give everyone an even laptop, but you always need differentiated software for that, because the 21st edition of the C.E., if you want to teach children differentiated thinking and learning [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] That would require more differentiated textbooks, not uniformization. Thank you.
u2014-06-23-50	I understand that Congresswoman did not accept the answer. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy:]] I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 43 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: " Will the government finally begin the real fight for freedom? " with the title " Congressman Tibor Bana shall have the floor.
u2014-06-23-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the context of this year's European Parliament elections, the question of the future of the European Union has become at the heart of political debates, namely whether the path to further deepening is appropriate or whether different powers should be given back to the nation states. Tibor Navracsics highlighted the importance of national advocacy as a candidate for Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister. He said that, where necessary, the conflict must also be undertaken in the spirit of standing up for Hungarian interests. In this regard, we bettermen are quite skeptical, trying to explain why. In order to be clear, it is worth considering what happened during the previous Orbán government period in the EU. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán raised his voice here, even here in the Hungarian Parliament, on several occasions against the EU's centralising ambitions, but in Brussels, at the meetings of the European Council, he said quite differently, and he did not stand on his heels in matters which led to a reduction in our national self-determination. Although the government and Fidesz are talking about standing up for a Europe of nations, in practice, they, like the socialists, give their support to empire-building efforts. The conflict was only undertaken in cases where there were issues relevant to the concreteization of their own power. I would also like to give you a concrete example of the double speech you have used, the play of deceiving voters who march under the " no colony,'often expressing Eurosceptic opinions. In December 2011, Viktor Orbán expressed serious reservations about the fiscal pact leading to a significant surrender of our Commission autonomy, and in his speech to Parliament he said that support for the British position could be considered. The Czech Republic has not only considered the British position, but has also decided to stay out of this pact. Just a month and a half later, in January 2012, Prime Minister in Brussels agreed to the proposal, and he no longer expressed his objections. Our doubts are strong, but we are confident that this situation will change after the new government has been established, so that, for example, we may have the merit of initiating an amendment of our Accession Treaty in accordance with our national interests, which would be absolutely necessary for the protection of our agricultural land. Dear Secretary of State, Will the government finally start the real fight for freedom, or will they continue to defend Hungary's interests at the level of words, and when meaningful action is needed, will they support the fateful path of building the European United States for our country? Does the Cabinet really have a strong opinion on the future of the Community, on the allocation of powers, as promised? Are they willing to make a run for it? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-52	I give the floor to Secretary Peter Szijjártó.
u2014-06-23-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing this up. This is certainly a good time and place for us to understand what we think about the future of the European Union and of Europe itself, even if we are not likely to agree on everything, but at least we understand each other's starting points and we may be able to have a meaningful debate. [[14.40]] But before I get to what kind of Europe we want in the future, I would like to state some facts on the basis of your questions and suggestions in your interpellation. First of all, I would like to say that, since 2010, the Government of Hungary and the Hungarian Prime Minister have strongly supported the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian nation on all issues. I would also like to state that we have had all the necessary debates and that we have concluded all the necessary agreements from the point of view of Hungary's interests. This has been the case in all cases, honourable Member, also on matters relating to the European Union, because we have clearly said no to every initiative that would stealthfully want to amend the treaties, and we have clearly said no to every initiative that might have been less or more, but would have wanted to change the powers of the institutions without being noticed, in such a way that there was a case of over-extension. At the same time, we strongly supported all initiatives, honourable fellow Members, which strengthened and strengthened Europe. But what kind of Europe do we want, honourable Member? I think that Europe and its policy on Europe must change and be renewed. We think that we should pursue a policy in Europe that makes it clear that Europe is finally back to Europeans, in Hungarian, that we Europeans are able to deal with our own problems, we are able to find the answers to the challenges ahead. Firstly, Europe must be competitive again, i.e. abandoning the policy of indebting the Member States of the European Union, we should finally realise that if 8 percent of the world's population lives here and we produce 20 percent of the world's GDP, the situation is likely to render us uncompetitive if we want to distribute 50 percent of the world's welfare expenditure. Obviously, high energy prices are countering competitiveness, so we believe that if the European Union is not able to develop a common policy that reduces energy costs at European level, then Hungary must continue to pursue its policy that will resolve this issue for Hungary. Obviously, as long as economic operators in the United States are able to take energy at a price of one third as in Europe, we cannot talk about a significant improvement in competitiveness. Then we want a Europe that can provide jobs for European people instead of aid, and if the market is unable to do so, a greater level of public engagement should be considered. We want a Europe that is capable of guaranteeing the energy security of its members and the treaties they serve, which, in addition, have been concluded between the Member States of the European Union, which can enforce their implementation. And finally, my honourable fellow Member, we want a Europe that respects and values families, we do not accept the emptiness, the relativisation of the family, and certainly not the mockery of it. And, honourable Member, we want a Europe that respects the constitutional identities of the Member States and recognises that the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it can be successful if its Member States are successful, the two do not exist without each other. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-54	I ask Congressman Tibor Bana if he will accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-55	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your answer, because it is clear from the fact that they want to continue the same path as before, that is to say, they stand up for national interests at the level of words, they wink the sword at home, but when it comes to it, they give their consent to the measures that have been taken towards empire building, super-state setting. This is unacceptable for Hungary's national interests, especially when it is seen that an increasing number of voters are opposed to the direction that the European Union has taken in recent years, and when many European countries stand firm for their national interests, or in the context of the recovery of powers. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will confront you with situations where your words and actions are not even in a thank-you relationship, as it is unacceptable to deceive voters at this level. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-23-56	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: 98 yes, 34 votes not, with 3 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " Did they know that they were causing grievances, yet did they do so, or how they continued to transform the disabled supply? " with the title " Congressman Lajos Korózs shall have the floor.
u2014-06-23-57	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is certainly also well known to you that, as of 1 January 2012, the Hungarian pension system has undergone a major restructuring, including the cessation of every pension under the age limit, the abolition of the service pension, and finally - in my opinion, this was one of the biggest crimes - the disability and accident disability pensions have been abolished, thus putting tens of thousands of people in an impossible position, since they have taken away their only income, the disability pension. It is also memorable how they prepared the ground for the reconstruction of the disabled supply: hundreds of thousands of people were said to be crooks, saying that they had received wrongful care. With these statements, all disabled and disabled people were branded, scapegoated from a social group in difficulty. You have permanently terminated the disability and disability pensions institution, as I have mentioned, which has not taken into account the total length of work that has taken place before the disability. You know that each employee pays a pension contribution under Hungarian law depending on his taxable income. This new system does not take into account how much service time has been completed and does not take into account how much pension contributions have been paid for decades. Nearly 200,000 people were required to apply for a so-called complex review by 1 May 2011. In my opinion, this complex review has practically done nothing but remove funds from the pension scheme. At his hearing, the Minister said that I would like to quote exactly: " I would also like to mention the matter in which we have not done as much as we should have done, and I think we still have work to do here. This is the transformation of the supply system for persons with disabilities, and we were aware that there were still many personal grievances here. " My first question to the Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, is why, if you were aware that you were causing grievances, you have taken these measures, the measures that have resulted in hundreds of thousands of victims who have been subjected to unnecessary damage, and thousands of victims whose care has been reduced or most of them have ceased. It is also important that you hoped for a significant reduction in expenditure, not to hide it, but I would like to stress that in 2011 total HUF 2.2 billion instead of HUF 11 billion, in 2012, almost HUF 25 billion against the HUF 88 billion envisaged. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It shows, my dear friends, that they didn't actually save anything but these people. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-58	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-23-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I thought it would be difficult to convince you, honourable Member, so I quote two people on this subject whose views you may not doubt. Erika Szűcs, one of your former bosses here in Parliament in September 2008, said: "Not only the needs of the economy, but also the daily experience of all of us confirms the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400,000 disabled people of working age. "This expectation is clear," continued Erika Szűcs; "he who is able to work can work and work. Let there be more taxpayers, so that fewer taxes can make a decent living for our fellow countrymen who are no longer helped by rehabilitation. It's our social program, and it's not saving money. " Although you probably applauded this speech, but if you did not believe Erika Szűcs, her former boss, then allow me to quote another authority on this subject, Secretary of State, Lajos Korózs, who said: " Of course I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into disability pensions, but in the long run, there can be no perspective for a society if there is any fluctuations in the labour market or because someone's knowledge is not converted, or because his health has decreased somewhat - he also said that his health has decreased - the only escape route is to go to disability. [[14.50]] Unfortunately, in the 1970s, this was done by workers in England, and the English also realized that this was not a good direction. " That is what you said, honourable Member. I hope that the congressman, Lajos Korózs and Lajos Korózs, the Secretary of State, can agree on this issue, and from this point on, the main direction of your interpellation is no longer disputed, because you, together with your former self, can support the direction that the government has in the past four years, because it has taken and has done, precisely in the interests of the real disabled, the disabled, the disabled who really cannot do work by reason of their condition, so that their care, their benefits are valuable, and indeed these social benefits are given to those who are in need, and not to those who, in some way, want to use this unauthorized. The review system itself fully complied with both Hungarian legal standards and EU standards. You know, it was a two-step remedy system, who appealed against the administrative decision, and could even appeal to a court of law. 350,000 inquiries were carried out, and the ombudsman's inquiry described in your interpellation challenged seven of them. These have been examined by the NRSR, the National Rehabilitation and Social Office, and it has found in most cases that they have acted in accordance with the law, even in these cases. In total, the proportion of real delays was 4%, but the main problem was that the documents submitted were incomplete or invalid certificates were submitted. However, despite the delays in the reviews, benefits were paid to everyone, so no one was left unattended, even if the review itself was delayed. In order to make them faster, we have introduced a surrogate for medical experts so that as many colleagues as possible can help in this difficult work. The result is, as you know, an increase in the number of people in supported employment, and the labour market data are clear. In March this year, 23 954 people worked on the rehabilitation card in 6274 companies, with a discount of HUF 471 million. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This year it has increased by 1300, and the number of employees in this group has increased from 43,000 to 63,000 before the conversion. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-60	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-06-23-61	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I can't accept your answer. I take responsibility for every sentence I say, and I still do. I still think so... [[Noise, interruptions. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then accept it.]] No, no, no! My apologies, I cannot agree with the procedure and method you set up three years ago. I agree with the aim that if someone can work, they will, if possible, find their calculation in the labour market, become a tax and tax-paying citizen. But I can't agree with that... - think of the situation where, at the age of 18, a person acquires a professional driver's license and works as a trucker in his life and is now 59 years old, this man has more than 40 years of working time, but at 59 he loses both his legs as a result of a car accident, this man cannot retire, even though he has more than 41 years of work because he has no disability and no disability pension. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true. That's not true.]] In his present state, this man can get nothing but a short period of time [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] health care. I can't agree with that. I don't accept your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-62	Congressman didn't accept the answer, so I'll ask the Parliament if he'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 100 votes in favour, 40 against, without abstention, the Parliament accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, At 2:54 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning agenda. Zsolt Legány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " When will the tractors start? ' The title is given below. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Minister for his answer in person. [[Zsolt Legány: I accept.]] It accepts the identity of the responder. I'll give you the floor.
u2014-06-23-63	Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Not so long ago, a few years ago, in 2008, exactly in the summer of 2008, Fidesz's agricultural umbrella organization Magos demanded the government's intervention in a loud voice, so he was still a socialist government in Hungary, so he demanded the government's intervention in relation to the factory. May I remind you that the then Managing Director of Magos was Gyula Budai, who is currently Parliamentary State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. [[Noise.]] At that time, not only did they demand the intervention with regard to the factory and the factory, but they organised demonstrations, the farmers were fired up, the tractors were launched, and they tried to put pressure on the government at various demonstrations. To add, we were counting on a factory over 100 forints then. Today, cherry growers face the fact that the price of the cherry, the buying-in price per kilo, is around 70 forints. They can't even solve the cost price, and I would add that it would be about the price of picking, the price of harvesting. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State and, of course, the Government when the tractors will start up again, when Magos will start up again, when it will fuel the farmers to demonstrate again, and possibly pour a cherry on Kossuth Square again in front of Parliament, because then they will comply with this practice. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: when will the tractors start? Thank you.
u2014-06-23-64	I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-06-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, In answer to his question, when the tractors leave, I hope they left early in the morning to go out into the cherry gardens to put on all the cherries that they had taken off the day before, or are shaking right now. I think the next thing you know, it's time for them to start from these gardens and go to the purchasing sites and drop off this cherry as soon as possible. Especially because the weather is like saying rain and storms by the week, so the cherry crop is in danger. But how did this surplus crop develop? We can be very happy that there is a crop and that " there is,'I think we do not need to be alarmed. The average of the last five years, given that there are 22 percent more crops, which I think we should be happy about. However, the portfolio, with the risk of a significant decrease in the purchase price of the sour cherries, has been in consultation with producers, processors, interest organisations, representatives of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy, interbranch organisations in recent weeks. Based on the negotiations, decisions were made to involve the government in the market for HUF 800 million, with the purchase of glazed sour cherries to support the cherry producers by HUF 40 per bottle. We hope that all the efforts by the government to facilitate the acquisition of 20,000 tons of cherry by this intervention will release the pressure on the market, and that this market will restore the purchase price of sour cherries, the normal market agenda will be restored, and farmers will not be able to go to Parliament, but to work in the cherry garden, and in Parliament the Magos interest representation organisations, the National Chamber of Agriculture, will be able to work very rightly. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and, of course, the government provides the right answers to producers' questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-66	In return, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2014-06-23-67	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. We fully agree that tractors are supposed to participate in the harvest, not do what the Magos did to fuel farmers. But I would add that you and you must accept and understand that the price that you are now offering for the cherry would not even cover the cost of harvesting, so it will not reach the cost. We have a very simple position on this issue: we demand from the Hungarian Government, and we also demand that the Secretary of State also from the wallet, that if necessary, intervene, if necessary, in the market processes, and, of course, either with Magos or with the other agricultural umbrella organization of Fidesz, the National Agricultural Chamber, be able to say an amount per kilo, of course, but at a price between 50 and 100 forints. In this case, I think that a few billion forints could solve this problem. We demand the Hungarian government to stand by farmers and help farmers. Thank you. [[15.00]]
u2014-06-23-68	I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2014-06-23-69	Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government is always on the side of farmers without your request, and that is precisely why, before you could submit this question, last Friday the government announced its intention to support it. I very much hope that, with the HUF 800 million to help remove the 20,000 tons of soy from the market, by looking for new markets, by placing this soy on new markets, the Hungarian farmers will be able to produce the right income this year, and I very much hope that they can produce under certain conditions, as they can always count on the Hungarian government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-70	Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " What will become of prosperity here? " The title is given below. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or asks the Prime Minister for a personal answer.
u2014-06-23-71	I respect the person of Deputy Prime Minister, but I would like to wait with him because of the importance of the question. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-72	Thank you. Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Adam Mirkóczki, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: " Didn't they tell the criminals who attacked the paramedics that there was order? " The title is given below. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Several times in the previous cycle, we have had discussions to protect people with a public mission, but there is a significant difference between us, and we can say that our opinion on Hungarian public security is quite different in this case, but I trust that the facts will finally convince you. I report, there is order, said Mr. Minister of Interior a few months ago, but, as I asked in the title of the question, certain groups were not told about this, it would appear that the public-service people are being insulted at a number of almost daily levels, not just teachers and not just vigilantes. This weekend is almost a record case of a brutal assault on paramedics in three different settlements in Karcagon, Kecskemét and Budapest in one night. This causes not only serious material and physical harm, but also emotional shock, especially against people who otherwise do humble, self - sacrificing work to help others, and in gratitude, they are attacked by certain, well, not very human beings, and it seems that the government is not really able to deal with the current situation. We are aware that there is a new Btk., we are aware that there have been changes in the last four years, and you should be aware that these daily challenges are far from proportional, that your ideas are not in a thank-you relationship with reality. It would therefore be very important to incorporate further, truly radical elements in order to protect people with a public mission. I mean, let's not forget, beyond the fact that they are doing this sacrifice for Balkan wages, under Balkan conditions, the current or current government cannot guarantee a minimum that they will be safe. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-74	Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State for the response to the urgent public task. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2014-06-23-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to state the fact that, at the beginning of the last term, we have strengthened the criminal protection of persons with a public service mission, we have tightened up the criminal code, which has been incorporated into the new criminal code. I would like to say that I confirm our position here, too, that the democratic rule of law is based on the fact that no one can be above the law, regardless of race, denomination, race, origin, and that the laws are binding on everyone, including the sick, in need of help. That's what I'd like to say. And I would also like to say that we would like to thank the members of the emergency services, the paramedics, who, by their sacrifice, are working to help the people in distress. And it must also be said that in these three cases, the rescue crew came to the scene to help, and these people in the three cases that you mentioned in your immediate question were sick people in need of help. Then the medical examiner's opinion will determine the extent to which their ability to set them off was based on their criminal liability. But I would like to say that we are not talking about criminals here, Congressman, we are talking about sick people who have behaved in ways that are not acceptable. I would like to confirm that the procedure has been initiated in all three cases. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the government is determined to further strengthen order and security. I ask you and your faction to support the laws that serve these purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-76	Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has the floor.
u2014-06-23-77	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Certain behavioral or sociocultural differences may be called disease, but let's just say sick people rarely use an ambulance as a taxi and rarely testify to vandalism. In these cases, when doctors, ambulance drivers, paramedics or nurses are brutally assaulted, these depraved acts do not occur because of the disease, but rather because of a mental problem. But I'll tell you one more time, you could call it a disease. I'm pretty sure the Jobbik will be a partner in doing whatever it takes to advance their defense. We would also suggest closing a loophole here: from 1 to 5 years of imprisonment for a person with a public service mission would be safe from 2 to 8, so that the minimum of 2 years is immediately spent and not considered. For once again, there is nothing more vile than hurting people who come to someone's aid. And, of course, we are equally open to everything else, and we will help the government's work. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-78	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Once again, I confirm that any violation by people seeking help is unacceptable, and the authorities are taking action against this infringement. In these cases, the police immediately took the necessary measures after transport to the hospital and, if necessary, we will do the same for the future. Once again, thanks and acknowledgments to the members of the emergency services, the ambulances for the activities they do for all of us, and in the vast majority of cases, the law-abiding, law-abiding people use the help of ambulances. Such cases are not acceptable, and the authorities act. As a result of medical examination, we can tell which direction the criminal proceedings will take or what will happen next. I ask you, if you are serious about your aspirations for order, you will support the government's restrictive measures. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-80	Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " Will the newly formed government correct previous misguided education policy decisions? " with the title " Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2014-06-23-81	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2014-06-23-82	Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am in such an unfortunate situation that I submitted my immediate question three weeks ago, and it did not take place twice in the hour of immediate questioning, and so shortly before me, Congresswoman Kunhalmi said a lot of things about the question that I wanted to ask. But nevertheless, and mainly because I did not think the Secretary of State's reply was appropriate, a few things, if I were to ask from another point of view. The first is that we see a very strong nationalizing effort, which does not take into account any other aspect, but its own ideas. The textbook distribution was first nationalised with such a strong momentum, and then the textbook publication, that this will result in serious damage and almost scandals, let's call it. [[15.10]] After all, what could be called when according to one of the portals, 38 thousand textbooks did not arrive in time, but at the same time we learned by means of a data request that textbooks were indicated as replacements, so as replacement orders, which were complaints in some part. It's in the order of 100,000, specifically 600,000. So they didn't get these books, or they got them much later. The second part of my question is of a qualitative nature. The fact that these nationalised textbook publishers issue textbooks of questionable quality, the details of which I will soon say a few more sentences, but I will probably only be able to do so after Mr. Secretary of State's reply. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-23-84	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-23-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have been attacking this system for a very long time and have been criticising textbooks over the last few months that you have not actually seen. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: We will not.]] It is assumed that since it is not issued by a private publisher, if any, but, let's say, a state-owned publisher, which is also an economic company, you say that it will certainly be bad. It is as if in Hungary there are no illiterate people who are competent in physics, mathematics, who are invited to participate in a certain professional work by the state or by a public publisher or OFI. And all of a sudden, because he's not a private agent, he's got a government client. [[Dóra Dúró: That is not the case.]] So all thought goes out of his head, suddenly he turns into a droid, who only writes questions that are important to the government in the physics book. You have these kinds of fantasies, which are voiced here in Parliament. But believe me, in that particular physics book, you are also in that certain mathematics and even Hungarian language and literature textbook. [[Lajos Korózs: Meg in the history book.]] just as good, and even our vision is that better content will be created than when it was created by private service providers. Obviously, many have made a very good living when the state has spent more and more money to cover the purchase of textbooks in schools' budgets, and these funds have obviously resulted in very high profits for certain providers. But I think that the state wants to achieve a uniform high level of quality, and to do so in every school, not only in schools in Rose Hill, but also in schools in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, at the same level, from the same textbooks, and to start a project creating such a huge equal opportunity that it provides these textbooks free of charge for everyone. I believe that these proposals could also be supported with a calm heart from the opposition. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-86	I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-23-87	Mr. Secretary. You gave me a very high ball, since we asked for these textbooks, I mean expert opinions in a significant part. This expert opinion seems to be evaluated by these experts, the consultants, on a scale of 1-4. Now, in older times, scale 4 was the maximum when a textbook was approved. Right now, there's a textbook going through this filter that's a two, so it's the lowest, and they just let it through. Christian Democratic Congressman I do not know how good he thinks such expressions are, and I quote literally: " Jesus'resurrection occurred on Easter Monday. " Amazing! The midwife's meaning is soul mate according to the textbook. " The presentation of Christendom's development is problematic, but other religions also leave something to be desired. - it was written by the expert, the book interpreter, not me. And there are similar deer flaws and huge mistakes in these books. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether there will be any change in this, whether these books are actually allowed to be published.
u2014-06-23-88	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2014-06-23-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have demonstrated well that in this system there is indeed the possibility of correcting the error. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] For if there are bad ingredients, then these very expert opinions can show us where they need to be improved. It's really banal things that you said, Congressman, and it would be a mistake if they showed up like this, that's how students see it. But if it weren't for an internal audit, there wouldn't be an internal expert inquiry, then obviously you wouldn't be able to tell them either, because they couldn't have corrected these items, which, if they were, as you said, and some of these errors were made by some makers, they obviously need to be corrected. That's why we put this phase in the bookmaking order. I trust that when they receive these textbooks in September, these mistakes will no longer be in them. Then you can condemn us, honourable Member, when in September there will be such, rather large material errors or half-information in the textbooks opened by students. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-90	Dear Parliament, László Kucsák, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: " What can public confidence mean for the socialists? " Róbert Répássy has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts the person of the responder. [[László Kucsák: Yes.]] Or ask the Minister for his answer in person. Yeah, he'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-91	Mr President, Dear House, According to the statutes of the MSZP, who is legally convicted, he cannot play a role in the party, this is what József Tóbias, acting group leader, spoke about after the election of György Hunvald, the first and second degree convicted, was elected by the VII. Chairman of the District. The statement is also interesting because the party's member, Ágnes Kunhalmi, was found the other day to have been definitively convicted of counterfeiting of the authentic instrument. But that doesn't seem to have any consequences for the socialists. In November 2005, Ágnes Kunhalmi was also convicted of obtaining a sticker for his expired high school student ID in order to buy a cheaper transport pass. To my knowledge, he explained the actions of Ágnes Kunhalmi, who had already been employed at the Prime Minister's Office, on the basis of his low income. After committing the covert act, the reply of the congresswoman is very cynical that the electorate will decide who to trust. There is a legitimate question as to whether there are still any moral and ethical standards that the socialists consider incompatible with responsible politics. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Minister what public confidence can mean for the socialists. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-92	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Répássy to Robert.]]
u2014-06-23-93	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. On behalf of the Secretary of State of Rétvár, thank you.
u2014-06-23-94	Oh, sorry, Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2014-06-23-95	Actually, I'm gonna answer it. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, forgery of the authentic instrument is a criminal offence against public trust under the Criminal Code, a crime punishable by imprisonment of up to three years under both the old and the new criminal code. It is therefore a legitimate question of how the organisation of which you are a member, acting as an official, will deal with such a situation, Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. The Hungarian Socialist Party's statutes are available on the Internet, on the MSZP website. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Want to join?]] If, of course, you don't recommend me to read it, then, I promise I won't visit the MSZP website again, but I visited it once. I read there that a party member who deliberately violates his obligations under the statute is committing a disciplinary offence. In particular, he is committing a crime or a misdemeanor, a misdemeanor, and other acts, or exploits a situation such as his position, relationships, and information that gives rise to an attack on the party. It is interesting, doesn't it, from this approach, to think that the fact that a member of the Hungarian Socialist Party has committed a crime doesn't give us an opportunity to attack the party, or at least we don't know that because of this, Member Gergely Bárándy, who is otherwise sitting next to Ágnes Kunhalmi, who is the chairman of the Ethical Committee of the MSZP, would have brought proceedings against the congresswoman. But I think it's the internal affairs of the MSZP. However, it is up to Parliament to publish the data of all Members of Parliament concerning their previous possible punishment. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-23-96	Thank you. In return, I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák. [[15.20]]
u2014-06-23-97	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for all of this. In my view, this question is also interesting, because the electorate has already been deceived by the MP of the MSZP earlier by making his education appear in a flyer he has issued, which he has subscribed to, as if he had a diploma. In the absence of a language examination, he presented himself as an educational policy expert, a good friend of educators and educators, often calling them colleagues with a noble simplicity. In view of all this, and taking into account what he has said today - although he is now not in the Chamber - the question of morals, professionalism and public confidence can therefore rightly be raised. I look forward to your rejoinder, Secretary of State. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Hiller: Is this a party committee or the Hungarian Parliament? Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: It used to be one! Interview in the lines of the LMP: We are on the right track! Intercoms. Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-06-23-98	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2014-06-23-99	Thank you for the floor. I am very pleased that Ágnes Kunhalmi's crime has aroused such intense emotions among the members of the Hungarian Socialist Party, but I can tell you that it is more important to ask whether the Prime Minister's Office, where he worked, has any evidence that he has reported the criminal proceedings against him, and when his superiors have learned how they have decided, given the duty of an employee, in particular a civil servant working in the Prime Minister's Office or any other employee, to inform his superiors that he is being prosecuted, and that he is being prosecuted for a crime against public trust. I do not know at this moment how this matter was handled in the Prime Minister's Office, but I promise you, Congressman, I will inform you of the procedure that the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office conducted at that time. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-100	Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " Are children really eating healthy at school? " The title is given below. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2014-06-23-101	Yeah.
u2014-06-23-102	It says yes. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-23-103	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, If I may, I would really like to address an important issue that really affects Hungarian people, unlike the previous few minutes. In recent years, especially in recent months, there has been a lot of noise from programs about how our children can feed healthier in schools. This is one of the few programmes that, I think, are cross-border programmes; it is enough to think only of the school milk scheme that was born in 2008 and which has been in operation since then or of the buffet regulation that has been tightening ever since 2005. Unfortunately, despite the government's current intentions, however, the reality is that, in addition to the ever healthier supply of the buffets, the vending machines that have been banned from school buffets have been growing more and more recently. By the way, the legislation allows for this because it says that, if the parental organisation agrees, such vending machines can be placed. Unfortunately, however, it is not unprecedented and Article XVI does not. It is also very common in the district that parents' organizations are not even asked to post such vending machines; the most humiliating is when a poster is placed under a poster that calls attention to a healthy lifestyle. in district school, the vending machine that distributes only and exclusively products that have less beneficial effects on health. The Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, which administers public procurement in principle, only increases chaos on this issue. Dear Secretary of State, Are you planning to tidy up the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Office so that the Centre can finally carry out its duties and enforce the laws in relation to the school buffets? Is it planned? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That Máté Szabó, in accordance with the Ombudsman's previous recommendation, regulates the supply of shops in schools? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2014-06-23-104	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-23-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This government took seriously its efforts to ensure the right to a healthy environment, a healthy living environment, and to expel both smoking and health-damaging products from as many places as possible. This is why tobacco traffic has fallen noticeably, and therefore there is less disease in the area of smoking, which is why Hungary, the Prime Minister, has received international recognition of the laws against smoking, because it is now impossible to do so in any closed space, and an important part of this is to obtain healthy food for those who go to school. That is precisely why we have introduced legislation that requires the maximum daily intake of salt, and that these salt rations be returned with a continuous schedule in each school kitchen at the cafeteria. For each form of supply, it ensures that the amount of milk, milk products, cereal-based food, or vegetables, or fruit, to be provided daily for different days of care, nursery meals or three meals, is on the children's table, and is not brought from far away, not from distant cuisine, but from local farmers. However, there are also restrictions on what should not be included in the diet: energy drinks, carbonated soda, sugared soda, non-fruit-based syrup, caffeine-containing beverages, some of the food colours are also banned. In fact, for whom a doctor prescribes a diet, it is also a task to provide diet food at school. The Mintamenza programme was launched in 2010, and it is already very successful. If, contrary to this and contrary to the legislation, one of these vending machines is relocated somewhere, it must, of course, be removed from there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In this case, the legislation has been fully health-oriented, and these decisions are individually illegal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-106	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder.
u2014-06-23-107	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Of course, I obviously know the legislation myself, and I know that this is the government's intention. On the other hand, the fact is that the frequent incompetence of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre in this area is also a threat to government will. When it comes to the 16th. In the district, the socialist municipal representative informed the mayor that the placement of such vending machines was illegal, so the district mayor could not tell at the board meeting how these vending machines could have been avoided. Since then, these vending machines have been out in the district, and I believe that there are still a number of places where the very right directions that you have said cannot be respected because the Centre is already unable to comply with these minimum laws. I would like there to be a change in this, and I would like those goals that we can also support, so that children can eat healthyly in schools, and that they can prevail. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And don't let the incompetence of the center prevent that. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-108	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for a rejoinder. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-06-23-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, If it weren't for KLIK, there wouldn't be a single organization that could perform tomorrow and ban these vending machines from all schools. In the former fragmented system, when each of them had a separate maintainer, three thousand maintenance decisions could have been made day by day, the State would not have had the opportunity to force them out of the various educational institutions in a uniform manner. The establishment of a single system of maintenance, the KLIK, the introduction of the possibility of central management, exactly creates the possibility that there was probably such an automatic in one or more places before, indeed, probably before, that children could buy such drinks or foods, only now there is a Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center that can get on this problem and banish these health-damaging products. As we measured the effectiveness of our earlier decisions in 2013, we can see from the fact that in 250 cooking kitchens a total of 700,000 children are now eating much more fruit, much more vegetables, whole-grain bakery, new foods, and more than half of the schools are dieting. So I think we're going in the right direction here, too. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-110	Welcome. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " Why are you not pleased with the professional help of any educator? " with the title " The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dóra Dúró's mark:]] Congresswoman says yes. You have the floor, please. [[15.30]]
u2014-06-23-111	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government has now fallen so far in the field of education policy that it was forced to establish its own professional consulting partner by establishing the National Teacher Faculty. However, the circumstances of this formation suggest that these discussions will be like in a tale when a two - headed dragon talks to himself, but there is only one option he can decide. At the same time, Mrs Czunyiné, State Secretary, in her first speech here in Parliament as State Secretary, struck a rather negative tone with regard to any other actor in education policy, especially trade unions, and complained that the trade unions had even made professional comments during the past period, beyond employee representation. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State: do I wish to hold these professional meetings with only one organisation? Why are they not happy in the system of national cooperation if any educator gives an opinion on changes in education policy or legislation within any framework? Why are trade unions questioning their right to participate in shaping public life and education policy in this way and even helping this process? There are further concerns about the National Pedagogist Faculty which suggest that this will not be an independent organisation, for example, because the state will also provide its budget. On the part of educators, in addition to requiring compulsory membership, only 10 percent were involved in shaping this whole process at all. Do you appreciate this as a success, Mr. Secretary? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-23-112	Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-113	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think we should be very happy that the National Teachers' Faculty has been established, since all teachers have been able to participate in setting this up. No one was excluded, everyone could have been there on the spot or in the election of national officials. This is the body where it was not only a narrow trade union membership who expressed an opinion, but all teachers had the opportunity to participate. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the agricultural chamber?]] For example, if we look at the case of the Bar Association, there is a relatively small number of lawyers, but no one doubts the legitimacy of the Chamber Managers, and all lawyers who practice law there are obliged to be members of the Bar Association. Here too, in some different circumstances, a similar system has been built, where all teachers can choose who represents him in the professional dialogue, or he himself may have been elected in the internal chamber elections. This opportunity was offered to every educator working in Hungary. Whoever lived with it lived with it, who didn't live with it, didn't live with it. For this reason, the National Pedagogist Faculty has a much wider mandate than the trade unions, whose opinions are, of course, still important in many respects, and the government will obviously continue to listen to them. You have seen in the last four years that there have been various discussions with the trade unions, either at State Secretary level or at ministerial level, but none of them have the same representativeness, none of them have the same legitimacy, none of the trade union leaders have as many teachers as in the case of the National Pedagogist Faculty. I therefore believe that this is obviously the main interest representation organisation for teachers, in which anyone could participate at any stage, have had a say, a say in the elections and a vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-114	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here.
u2014-06-23-115	Dear Secretary of State, I did not question the possibility of any educator, but I warned you and the public that there was little demand among teachers to create this Faculty of Teachers. I repeat that 10 percent of teachers participated in the process that led to this formation. So this is clear feedback that despite compulsory membership, and even because of that, there may be very little need among teachers. In addition, a number of pro-government politicians have said their criticism in connection with compulsory membership, and even at the press conference following the formation of the Pedagogist Faculty, President Horváth himself said that he would have been more fortunate if this organization had been a voluntary member, and that they could indeed have adapted its operation to the right needs. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-23-116	Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2014-06-23-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam Congresswoman, if we were to take this principle, I do not know how many regional chambers would remain in the Hungarian Bar Association, because although there is a mandatory membership of lawyers, lawyers are still more public than teachers, but sometimes only 10-20-30 percent of them go to a chamber assembly, and it may be very rare, it may not have been in the last few days. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Is that okay?]] When more than half of the members of that chamber, let's say, would have gone to the bar meeting. And yet we do not say that the chambers of attorneys should be dissolved, because very few lawyers go to the chamber assembly, and we do not question these decisions. Or: if you look at a municipal election, where, if necessary, more than 50 percent of the voters have not gone, and yet they have been able to choose a mayor. This is a very weak argument, I think it is a wrong direction if you say that because, although everyone has been given the opportunity, but few have gone away, the whole organization should be called into question, because then a lot of chambers in Hungary would be in trouble. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-118	Dear Parliament, János Harghitai, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Does the Széchenyi rest card fulfil the expectations? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2012, when the holiday check was led out by the government, many were concerned, as it was also a well-functioning system, but the government's aim was to make electronic distribution instead of a paper-based distribution. An electronic voucher card similar to a credit card was issued. In 2013, I see from the figures that the hopes for the Széchenyi rest card appeared to be confirmed, because not only foreign travel traffic has increased, but domestic tourism has also increased, the acceptance places have been able to increase their revenue by 10%, obviously thanks to the SZÉP card. This card also has a social policy objective, and research shows that the cost of workers' health and recreation is reimbursed two to three times. It's easy to see that a rested worker is doing better at work. Apparently, the state has given up income here, because'the employee and the employer have a free SZÉP card. Only 1.5 per cent of the contribution is paid by the property accepting the card, the issuer. As long as, in 2013, according to the figures I know, the government has expectations of social policy and economic policy, as the government has no secret here to think that, even if it waives its contribution revenue, the budget and the state will benefit from it in terms of turnover taxes or additional jobs. I am asking Mr State Secretary what the latest figures say, how the SZÉP card is going to be sold, and what he can say on the basis of the figures this year's tourist preseason.
u2014-06-23-120	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman, it is indeed true that the SZÉP card is one of the most successful decisions of the past four years, since it has been in operation for three years and has become one of the most popular and most commonly chosen elements of the cafeteria system in recent years. The number of users was close to one million people, and more than 24,000 employers have already made use of this system. In 2013, thanks to the SZÉP card, 68 billion HUF flowed to tourist and catering businesses. So one million people have used the services of these Hungarian businesses. The SZÉP card has certainly contributed to the fact that the country's tourism statistics have also improved significantly. [[15.40]] What is good news is that the SZÉP card continues to be popular, as the number of uploads on the card has increased by 10 percent in the last 5 months, it has increased by 4 billion, from 34 billion to 38 billion forints, and it is spending at an even higher rate, as it shows an increase of 20 percent. It was also a good decision to extend the possibility of using the SZÉP card by 5 months, thus spending until 31 May, so until 31 May of the second year after the issue, and for example 98 percent of the 2012 upload was spent by employees, which is HUF 71.7 billion. I think that the SZÉP card is a good decision, and this must, of course, be continued in the future and, if possible, extended.
u2014-06-23-122	Thank you. Mr. Congressman, you have one minute, please.
u2014-06-23-123	Thank you, of course we agree on that. I have one more question if I may ask you this. Through the press, you often hear that they are attacking this system; I suppose those who cannot be involved. Do you see the possibility, Mr Secretary, of protecting this system that is clearly useful to us in international forums? [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2014-06-23-124	Mr. Secretary of State has one minute in return.
u2014-06-23-125	That's right, Congressman. We know that this means Hungarian jobs, it is about Hungarian businesses, not foreign service providers; it strengthens Hungarian tourism, it increases the consumption of Hungarian people, it increases the Hungarian state's tax revenue, and Hungarian businesses are strengthened. A real Hungarian product for Hungarian people. Indeed, we are also under attack from the European Union for this. I think that the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, will be able to protect them, and this really popular and good product, a good decision, as I have already said, will be able to expand and expand in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2014-06-23-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: " Who is a spy, who is not a spy? " The title is given below. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply for his urgent public service. I'll ask Congressman Schiffer if he'll take it.
u2014-06-23-127	Let's get this over with. Yeah.
u2014-06-23-128	You accept it, you make it clear to the congressman, so you have the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last Monday, 16 June, you commemorated the 25th anniversary of Viktor Orbán's speech on 16 June 89. At the same time, László Tasnádi, Lt. Orbán became Minister of State of the Government of Viktor Orbán 25 years later. [[The First of Novak: Shame!]] What did this division do? The internal reaction, with the operational surveillance of persons engaged in hostile activities on the cultural, youth and ecclesiastical lines, diplomats and the protection of priority folk-economic objects. László Tasnádi made contact with two agents as operational officers in 2009 according to the article of the Weekly Reply in '89 and requested a report from them. Last week, Minister of State Tasnádi responded: " I will not resign, there is no reason for it. " He could have said, " So what? You could have said I had no reason to be ashamed of that for any reason. He didn't say that because that's what Péter Medgyessy said. What was your argument against the Act of Publicity? So we don't beat the dust on the agents. What does Secretary Tasnádi say after all? So being an agent is a natural thing. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to start by asking the question that Antal Rogán asked in these walls on 19 June 2002: "Do you think you can be proud of being an officer of this secret police force or not being proud of being an officer of this secret police force? " How many more have served as officers of communist state security in post-regime governments? [[The Foreman of Novak: We don't know that. It's classified.]] When will it be public,'after 89, how many former state security officers served in different governments? Do you agree with a Lustration Act, Mr. Secretary? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Would the government support the fact that Communist state security officers will never be able to perform government functions in Hungary? Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-130	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who also has two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, László Tasnádi held a press conference on the last Friday, 20 June 2014 at the Ministry of the Interior. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Did he resign?]] The press representatives informed Hungary about this press conference in detail and in every detail. Laszlo Tasnádi told me [[Dóra Dúró: It's natural.]] that he was involved in counter-terrorism and counter-intelligence. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] He told me about his detailed career. László Tasnádi, Chief of Staff of the Ministry of the Interior, informed Parliamentary Representatives at meetings of the National Security Committee during the last four years, 2010-14 [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Shame! Dr. András Schiffer: Did you leak anything?]] And then no one's objection to his activities was raised. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt, Dr. András Schiffer: Shame!]] Honourable Congressman, László Tasnádi told the public everything about his life, told the public about his activities, told us what he had been doing since the mid-1970s. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes? Dr. Gábor Staudt: Like Gyula Horn.]] Honourable Congressman, You are using this announcement, this press conference and what has been said there for political gain. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Please don't do this. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-132	State of Schiffer... And Congressman Schiffer has the floor. [[Defiance.]] Here you go. [[Foreman Novak: This pact is not yet public.]]
u2014-06-23-133	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The fact is, Mr Secretary of State, under Rule U 4 of the Fundamental Law which you have adopted, Minister of State Tasnádi or former Chief of Staff should have told the country in public what he had done before 1989, not behind the scenes, not at different secret meetings. Dear Secretary of State, We know what happened at this press conference, and we know that, for example, Fidesz said that he did professional and not political work. Like Péter Medgyessy, he must have broken the system from the inside out. [[The Foreman of Novak: That's right!]] We know he was a professional; he was more professional than those who worked in public administration in '44. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] ; professionals were also those who controlled censorship in the 1980s. Dear Secretary of State, The only thing I would like to offer you is that, in a public sense, the Prime Minister of Hungary may be Comrade D-209, but not in a moral sense. There can be only one thing in democracy who has acted in favour of maintaining the dictatorial system and is a public figure. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] László Fat said that on June 22, 2002. [[Intercoms. Applause in the ranks of LMP and Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-134	You have the Secretary of State's right to a rejoinder.
u2014-06-23-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Once again, László Tasnádi came to the public on 20 June 2014 and informed the public of all details of his career. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who was the contact?]] He explained the facts related to his career, his activities, his various assignments, his activities, and his activities during these periods. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Gyula Horn told me.]] Honourable Congressman, I ask that this information, which you have in possession of, [[Dr. András Schiffer: What am I in possession of?]] the information that was given at the press conference, honourable Member. [[György Szilágyi: There was nothing said there.]] So this information is available to the public, and László Tasnádi shared it with the public. Thank you very much. [[He can even become Secretary of State!]]
u2014-06-23-136	Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " Why are they not telling the truth? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. [[It's a herring Anita nod.]] Congresswoman's okay with it. You have the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-137	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, If I can use the words of your Minister's reply to my oral question the other day, I am very pleased to ask you again about domestic waste management. I took the advice, and I kept myself informed on the issue. First of all, your minister in his reply the other day literally said: "The Hungarian waste management system works, an important part of environmental protection. " If so, then I have only one question: do you really think that the system that has asked for multiples of the amount that you can spend to compensate for your losses due to the reduction in overhead costs is working? [[15.50]] The reality is that most of the public and municipal waste management companies are already unable to pay landfill premiums because of the poor and failed system. The majority of service companies continue to live up to their last reserves in their days. The problem is not only that they have not yet been able to decide on the compensatory allocation, but also that they do not know where the required amount is obtained from. In principle, they should cover part of the compensatory basis to cover losses from the landfill allowance. However, as I have indicated, non-profit companies in the vicinity of bankruptcy cannot pay for this. This, however, puts the whole sector in jeopardy, losing the service and losing hundreds of jobs. And I'm not the only one who can say that, but the professional organizations, and now the TÖOSZ, where your mayors are. It is also known that, as a result of the Waste Management Act, all service contracts will be terminated in a few weeks, as of 1 July, and new contracts will have to be concluded. The news is already that the service provider should be designated for more than 300 municipalities. It's weird for you to have a functioning waste management system when disaster management carries out garbage shipments. So I ask you again, do you really think this system is working? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-23-138	It's for the Secretary of State. You have two minutes, please.
u2014-06-23-139	Mr President, Dear Congresswoman, I can confirm the Minister's words: the system is operational, because a new system of standing up is in place every day and does the thing that is most important in Hungary, so that environmental protection and waste management can take place in the best possible way. The Law adopted on 1 January 2013 places great emphasis on the implementation of mandatory exploitation rates for Member States in the Waste Framework Directive. By 1 January 2015, separate waste collection systems should be established. It also helps to meet the recovery rates by requiring increased municipal engagement in the field of waste management public service. I think this is also a completely new concept, because earlier, while foreign service providers have carried out this task, they have taken the profits and profits from this sector, with the involvement of the municipality, it is possible to achieve that the profits generated here can help to undertake the tasks in other areas of the municipality. It is indeed a transitional period, it is a period of transformation, and if municipal authorities are unable to carry out their waste management tasks as set out in the municipal law, the government and the disaster management authority will assist in carrying out the stated tasks, i.e. the government and the disaster management authority are ready in the event that a municipality is unable to provide a waste management public service. Accordingly, I can tell you that, as a result of the decision of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, there will be no waste management without public service in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-140	We're gonna have a reconnaissance. You have one minute, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-141	Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that they still do not understand the problem, because this system is not working if the public service provider has to be designated as disaster protection for 300 municipalities and the waste companies are on the verge of being terminated; and jobs and the supply of domestic services are at risk. After all, you said that no settlement in Hungary will be Naples. Well, let's hope so. To the Minister's reply last time, rather than a lecture, I can tell him that he would rather deal with the price regulation of shipments of waste being something that people can pay and companies can sustain themselves. Instead, they should focus on keeping school paper collection open. [[Dr. János Fónagy: You don't have to litter so much.]] Most of the classes have devoted themselves to class trips; rather, they would focus on allowing waste management companies to comply with the law and to provide the public with multiple-size bins. And now we can't believe what they promise, because you promised [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At the Commission ministerial hearings, there will be a State Secretary for Environment. Well, we kind of don't see it. Thank you.
u2014-06-23-142	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-06-23-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Congresswoman, One of the main objectives of the introduction of the landfill levy was to divert waste from landfill and to encourage the recovery of waste. Among the tasks financed by the contribution, priority will be given to the financing of the projects needed to achieve the primary objective and to supporting the professional transformation of the public service. With regard to the collection of school paper, let me tell you: separate two important problems. Do we want to support class trips from it, or do we simply want to destroy the Waste Management Act? By implementing the selective collection of waste, it will be possible to avoid any paper from home. If children take it away - and it is no longer possible from 2000 onwards, it is not legally possible to do so - and selective waste collection will facilitate it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You are absolutely right that environmental management is very important for education. Together, let us find a way to serve the children's environmentally conscious education and how we can help them [[The president's ringing again.]] class trips, too. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[In the notary seat, Dezső Believing is replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2014-06-23-144	Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " Why does the whip always strike the needy? " The title is given below. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-145	Although government communication constantly emphasises how good employment figures are in Hungary, this is not reflected in reality. The number of jobs created on a real market and economic basis is very small or very insignificant, and the employment figures are due only to the number of people who have been artificially boosted and to the 500 thousand Hungarians who are working abroad. In view of this, the fact that even a member of the family loses his job and needs financial and social support is a particular problem for Hungarian households. It is a problem because it also finds it bumping into doors here, because we feel and see that the amount of resources that the state spends on social benefits is constantly shrinking. For example, if I look at the municipality of Szeged, this amount has decreased by 75% since 2010. On the other hand, on the other hand, we find that the number of people using cash social benefits has been steadily increasing since 2010, and it is unlikely that it will decrease again this year. Public employment is only provided for a short period of time and not for everyone, and we also see that many young people who are starting their careers. The additional cost of increased cash supply needs cannot be guaranteed from the current sources and the municipalities deprived of their resources are not expected to be resolved, as there is no framework for it. For this reason, I ask the Minister, Mr Secretary of State, why the state has money for unnecessary visual investment, while the budget for social support for families in difficulty is slowly being empty. My second question is what the government intends to do to help Hungarians who need more and more social support in addition to their own failure, in the absence of real jobs, especially without the resources of the local authorities, they are unable to take up the task that is no longer mandatory. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-23-146	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of Retvár will answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It will be short of two minutes to correct all the untruths from what the Congressman has just said. Firstly, with regard to the public works programme: the Socialists may be jealous that at last they have a successful public work programme, Start-work programme, the government of Hungary, because it has managed to create a new job either in the field of public works or in the private sector, which has not been the case in the past. There is a need for community service, as you know that there are people who have been out of work for 5 to 10 years, and they have no real chance of getting a job on the market, because they have no practice. In the last five to ten years, they haven't been able to show up a single day at work. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes several times.]] If the state doesn't help them, if the state doesn't offer them a job, then no one will offer them a job in Hungary. The fact that you have not brought anything new or new to this area means exactly that you have released these people's hands, abandoned them, that the market will not bother them, and that the public work programme has not been launched to help them. As far as the people in difficulty are concerned, first of all, the system of relief, you know that if you compare the current municipal number with the municipal number of four years ago, the difference will be exactly as we have changed the system of municipalities and public administration, and the district has taken on a lot of tasks from the municipalities, which the municipality had previously performed, and now the state organization system is in charge of it, so the state has taken over this task. [[16.00]] On the other hand, the municipality can't solve it because of a lack of resources. You're the ones who've been indebted to the local governments, putting them on a lot more jobs than they would have had any source. We consolidated the municipalities, eliminated their debt so that they could re-plan a budget to a normal extent. Which means payment of aid if you look at last year's budget and accounts, contribution to social benefits in cash, HUF 39.1 billion in the budget [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] there is also available here, and not all parts of this have been spent, so there is also empty funding left. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-148	Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Sneider, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "The government is blowing a retreat. " Congressman, please.
u2014-06-23-149	Dear Secretary of State, On 24 May, one day before the EU elections, news flashed of a government vision on the expansion of tax incentives for families with two children. According to a statement by Zoltán Pankucsi, Deputy State Secretary for Taxation of the National Economy, "calculations have already been made, according to which doubling the benefits of the two children would leave between HUF 55 and HUF 60 billion a year for those concerned." In my speech before the agenda of 19 June, I drew attention to the irresponsible experimentation of the government on family support and the fact that there should be no further delay in extending the tax relief for children for families with two children. I went to the government's huge blunder, which even Minister Zoltán Balog acknowledged at his hearing that the tax relief introduced from 2012 was only for the wealthy. I have drawn attention to the fact that the current minimum living is higher than the minimum wage. I pointed out that the result of the experiments was that by 2013, the number of living births had fallen to the bottom of 88 700 again. At that time, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári used to chant the usual mandatory panels in his response. He agreed that it is very important for as many children as possible to be born in Hungary, but to my point, that there should be as urgent action as possible to increase family tax incentives for families with two children, he did not respond. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like to answer by leaving the mantra, if you're going to withdraw. They're not going to double the tax relief for families with two children? Was that just a pre-election promise? I'm asking you for an answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-150	On behalf of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Again, as with the previous questioner, there is an interesting situation that Jobbik supports Fidesz's family tax relief system, and that's what's important. The important thing is that what Fidesz invented in 1998 is that families should be supported by giving more of their income tax to raise children, and this is a good system, which Jobbik supports. Of course, I also understand that you, as an opposition representative, are urging us to give more of the tax relief to a certain layer of people with two children and give it as soon as possible. I understand, in fact, I agree with you. It is indeed necessary to increase the level of family tax relief, but this is no longer a social policy issue, because we have made it clear that we agree on it, but basically it is a question of the budget, of tax revenue. Obviously, this can be returned in substance when the performance of the Hungarian economy, with economic growth, brings tax revenues, plus tax revenues, to the budget that can be given to families in support. I believe that this time will come soon, when, in agreement with you at government level, we will put on the agenda how the system of family tax relief can be extended and how it can be strengthened. I agree with you that yes, we will expand and increase the tax relief of families with one and two children in many families when the time comes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-23-152	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister: " What kind of change of direction is Minister János Lázár planning in rural development? "The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have heard a lot in the last week about what rural development changes are expected, and there are a lot of questions. In part, we have been informed by the press about the progressive system that, in terms of first-pillar subsidies, will start to sanction the big ones a little bit and bring back perhaps this resource to strengthen the middle-holder system. In principle, a counter-intelligence is also heard, namely that in the first pillar of the European Union's Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, the single payment system, rural development support in the second pillar, and a rumor that money would be transferred from the second pillar to the first pillar in the government's endeavour. It arises why this is necessary. If we start gradually reducing area payments, then in principle, small and medium-sized estates should have additional resources. Therefore, it would not be necessary to withdraw from rural development, because rural development resources would be much more needed in order for the countryside to have access to as much funding as possible by tender. However, I was a little concerned about the first press reports, because the Minister's first statements were limited to the size of the territory, and I would be very, very happy to consider the possible system, which, in principle, would be a useful step if a progressive system were to develop, because the size of the estate alone does not indicate the value-creating nature of an economy. There may be larger farms with high employment and high value-making, and small farms with almost complementary income. It would be good if other aspects could be incorporated into this system and if there could be a general debate on this. At the same time, the last paragraph - which I wrote in writing - is what is most important. After all, the question arises as to how Mr Lázár evaluates rural development performances in the light of the transformations. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , and what changes to the agricultural support system are expected. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-154	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-155	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking. I will answer the specific question briefly, but it was also a matter of principle, and I would therefore like to address it within a sentence. I think there is agreement in this House, regardless of party standing, that in the last 24 years or perhaps 35 years, this is a matter of view, the lives of people living in the countryside are significantly damaged, and people living in Hungary are at a disadvantage, whether they are young or middle-aged, on the labour market. In general, the countryside has serious problems, as regards development, sustainability, how to live in the countryside, what life opportunities we offer. The idea of the current government is that, by reorganizing the resources available to the State, I think we can create a better chance by making it fairer. These are resources in kind - forest assets - and, of course, resources of a material nature, which come from the European Union. I believe that the allocation of EU funds over the last seven years has not been successful, since 70 percent of the land-based support has been allocated to large enterprises and at least the same amount has been allocated to them from the rural development sector that you have mentioned. There are two types of EU support, land-based and rural development type. We will now try to change this as follows, and I will answer your question with this. We cannot apply degression to land-based subsidies up to EUR 150,000, this is the EU directive and we want to reduce the land-based support available to the major estates over EUR 150,000. Under 150,000 euros, which is about 1000-1100 hectares, we would like to maintain the current land-based support of 70,000 HUF/hectare for everyone. To survive this, it is necessary to transfer money from rural development to land-based aid, but the amount won by degression can be returned to rural development. Thus, the surplus of land-based aid obtained by degression cannot be transferred to small estates or to medium-sized estates; it must be put back into rural development, but I can prevent rural development from using land-based resources. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] reduce the amount of aid. My colleague, Secretary of State Miklós Kis, may I send it to you to give you detailed information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[16.10]]
u2014-06-23-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Simon Róbert, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: " Will mosquitoes this year not make the lives of the inhabitants of small settlements miserable? " The title is given below. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-06-23-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, As we, the people of the Danube and the Mosoni-Danube have already experienced in person, and the public is aware of the news of the past few weeks, the experts warn that due to the slight winter and the heavy rainfall in May, the water-covered areas have created optimal breeding sites for hip mosquitoes. Unfortunately, the situation is even worse because the flood mosquito species have laid more eggs than usual, they are present along rivers and inland waterways, or even hatched, i.e. there is an extraordinarily large mosquito invasion this summer. As a resident of Győr, I know that due to the environmental conditions in our area, it is particularly affected by this type of growth of mosquitoes. For this reason, every year, as the city manager of Győr, I do everything I can to ensure that the municipality of Győr takes the necessary countermeasures, for example, last year spent more than HUF 200 million from the city's budget to reduce the mosquito. Small settlements in the area, such as Kisbajcs, Nagybajcs, Venees, Vámosszabadi, Győrújfalu or Győrzámoly, however, I know that the mosquito invasion, which can solve this problem several times during the year, can be helped by the state, because these small settlements cannot provide it with their budget. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I ask the Secretary of State: will mosquitoes not make the lives of the inhabitants of small settlements bitter this year? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-06-23-158	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Each year, protection against mosquitoes has caused significant problems for municipalities, especially small settlements, in their budgets, it is very difficult to raise the resources they can devote to this task. As the Member said, the city of Győr spent some HUF 200 million on this task last year. And not only the creation of the source, but also, obviously, the destruction, the organisation and technical management of the small settlements can be a problem. And it is true that the settlements of the Szigetköz are in a difficult situation, where due to flooding and precipitation, optimal breeding sites for mosquitoes have developed, from which they can hatch and fly for weeks, or even months, to nearby settlements. In order to address this problem, in order to enable the government to resolve this centrally, an appropriation transfer was made from a reserve for extraordinary government measures. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: The National Mosquito Abuse Programme will be implemented according to a government decision, in which over 700, i.e. 2-6 times on the basis of continuous surveys in more than 700 municipalities, approximately 450 thousand hectares of air chemistry, 350 thousand hectares of earth chemistry, and 20 thousand hectares of biologically. In and around the island, including the settlements of Győrladamér, Győrújbarát, Győrújfalu and Győrzámoly, the first phase of protection against mosquitoes starts on 23 June 2014. As the Member said, metropolitan cities have the opportunity to carry out this activity from their own budget. The national programme also helps this, so it obviously helps big cities as well, and in small settlements we take over this task in full. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-160	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: " When was the last time you were on a train? " with the title " Congresswoman, please.
u2014-06-23-161	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to quote from Mayor Lajos Kósa's statement of 7 June 2014: " Debrecen-Budapest distance is two hours on the road from board to board, by train as well, and with trains capable of speeds of 160 kilometres per hour it will be only an hour and a half, so distance should not be an obstacle. " Lajos Kósa said about moving a ministry to Debrecen. It became immediately clear that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP were very rarely, but I would venture never to travel on a train. It is clear that the pro-government representatives are not aware of today's Hungarian reality. I am well aware of today's railway conditions, and I would like to draw attention to some data. How to get from Budapest to Debrecen today? The first IC train leaves for Debrecen from Budapest at 6:23 p.m. with a driving time of 2:42 p.m., arrival at 9:5 p.m. So you can't arrive in Debrecen at 8:00 in the morning, and it's not an hour and a half. But you can also take a fast train, which leaves at 5:58 p.m., it is also in Debrecen at 8:58 p.m., with a driving time of 3 hours. So this train can't even get to Debrecen by 8:00. But, honourable Members, there is a solution. It's not fast, it's not IC, there's a passenger train that leaves at 3:3 with a transfer time of 3 hours 27 minutes. We got to Debrecen by 6:30. Honourable Members, This is today's Hungarian reality. Anyone who travels by public transport knows that what Lajos Kósa said is not true. It refers to a development that started under the socialist government, but that doesn't solve the problem either, because it only concerns the Saxon Bishop's line, which is 67 kilometers. So, Mr. Secretary of State, when will there be conditions on the Hungarian railway to get from Budapest to Debrecen in an hour and a half so that Lajos Kósa is right? And when was the last time you guys took the railroad?
u2014-06-23-162	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm reporting, I traveled last Sunday between Vác-Zebegény and on Saturday, we started 180 new railwaymen on the children's train. By the way, I consider it a personal success that my new socialist fellow Members have been enlightened and instead of shutting down the railway, they are fighting alongside the railway. Thank you very much. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. Nándor Gúr: 400 flights!]] In addition to his specific question, the Budapest-Debrecen-Záhony railway line 100 is being renovated and refurbished to a significant extent. We have completed a complete sub- and body change between Saiol and Bishop's Lady stations, all stations are renewed, high platforms are secure and accessible. During the construction work, trains run according to track lock schedule, therefore the journey time between Budapest and Debrecen increases between 10 and 25 minutes. [[Nándor Gúr: 400 has been eliminated!]] The timetable figures quoted by the Member, therefore, are the times in the temporary track closure schedule. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Ten years ago!]] InterCity trains from Ferihegy stop to Debrecen Nagy station reach 2 hours 9 minutes, stopping at several intermediate stations. The running speed train running without stopping is 2 hours 3 minutes on the same section. If there were to be a non-stop service with an advantage over all other trains, the current infrastructure could also have a driving time of less than two hours. With the end of the reconstruction between Bishop's Lady and Debrecen [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: An hour and a half!]] The MÁV and the government are planning a similar technical renewal. Once the track renewal is completed, the track section will have a speed of 160 km. In this way, it will be possible to set a timetable that will reduce half an hour's travel time. I ask for your support, Congresswoman. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "By joining forces for the living country, for the Hungarian survival. " The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, An example of the Hungarian reality, which destroys local production and thus rural life, is a knife-opening example: while foreign trade chains and processors buy up their domestic farmers' bloody sweat crops for miserable euro cents, we have come to the point that bananas delivered here from thousands of kilometres in stores are cheaper than apples produced at home. It should be a fundamental objective, greater amounts should remain in the pockets of local farmers, and unemployment in rural areas, both socially and economically, which are causing serious social problems, should be reduced. [[16.20]] Currently, only one-tenth of the profit on each product track remains in the hands of producers and the rest remains in the hands of intermediate operators. By shortening the price-expensive distribution chain, profit distribution would be fairer, prices would be cheaper, so apart from a narrow, parasitic minority, both workers and consumers would benefit. If producers could act together, their market power would increase noticeably, there would be no fantasy about the creation of local producer-owned food processors, and these would create jobs that would serve the survival of small local settlements. Instead of living in poverty, ageing settlements, the Hungarian countryside would be characterised by self-sustaining villages, and instead of migration from unemployment, a growing population remaining in its homeland would characterize the Hungarian countryside. Dear Secretary of State, Even his fellow Member Vilmos Patay, President of the National Cooperative Council, recently said that the legal situation is not stimulating, but there has not been an impact assessment, for example, of the adaptation of the very positive Austrian model. That is why I am asking the Minister and the Secretary of State what concrete forward-looking tools have been used over the past four years to support the integration of farmers in a joint purchasing and marketing organisation. Why is this extremely important area still in its infancy in many respects? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Jobbik does not ask for the blessings of the Bolshevik colhozis, nor of the large capital enterprises that destroy humans and the environment. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-166	Thank you very much. István Nagy Secretary of State will give you the answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-167	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, If I had to answer in one sentence, I would say yes, I agree with you. The question that he asked was, " By working together for the living country, for the Hungarian survival, " - yes, it can be achieved by working together. At the same time, there is an old Hungarian wisdom, an old Hungarian saying: a common horse has a hard back, and they remember what the experiences of Hungarian farmers with the forced formation of cooperatives have been. It is therefore difficult processes, but at the same time it is absolutely possible to agree on the importance of cooperation. The Hungarian Government therefore considers the promotion of producer cooperation precisely as a priority, so the support of producer groups and producer organisations has been ongoing over the past years. Over the past four years, we have paid nearly HUF 24 billion to organisations operating on the fruit and vegetable field, together with EU grants, for their investments and operations. In order to increase the competitiveness of these organisations from 2011 onwards, we increased the rate of national support for investments by fruit and vegetables producer groups from 5 to 25 per cent, resulting in producer organisation in the sector exceeding 17 per cent. Producer groups in other sectors of agriculture have received operating grants of HUF 10 billion for the last four years, including EU support, for free use for Community purposes. In some EAFRD applications, such as start-up support for young farmers, modernisation of plantations or modernisation of gardens, membership of producer organisations is also an advantage, as it was an additional score when assessing the tender. At the last Visegrád 4 agriculture ministerial meeting and at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, we called for the use of EU instruments that are more favourable to producer groups than at present, so that we can catch up with the EU in terms of producer organisation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to its leading Member States in this respect and to improve the market positions of domestic producers. Thank you very much for your questions. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: " Is the current employment policy of the government sustainable or not? ' The title is given below. Congressman, please.
u2014-06-23-169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, I am sure you know that on 2 June the European Commission has such country-specific offers and economic offers on what should be done in those countries. If I remember correctly, this was summarised in seven points concerning Hungary, including points that call for a reduction in public debt. You know, at the end of the year it was 79.2 percent, and now it's almost 85 percent this spring. Now, it's all about reducing this or facilitating business lending, or just about things that are about simplifying the tax system, encouraging investment, and I could tell you more about all the economic issues. But it also deals with issues that concern the future, such as strengthening the existence of underage children at school, the need to be there or the sustainability of employment. Now, most importantly, I would like to ask you about this through the first four examples mentioned. One part of the matter is that the Minister said at the committee meeting that he wanted to build a completely new structure for the employment organisation. Well, you've crushed it for the last four years, and now I'm wondering what direction you want to move in, what's gonna bring that million new jobs, you know? - of which almost nothing has been done so far, only the economically displaced in public work, especially in the case of those who have been counted in winter public employment, will be confirmed through statistics. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] The other part is what they really want to do in order to increase the real employment rate of public workers. And a simple remark to the end. This is that it is not only when the elections come that we need to deal with these people in the winter. From spring to late autumn, not to send 100,000 people, this is when we should create value. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] provide employment opportunities. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-170	Congressman Sándor Czomba, Secretary of State, responds. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Let me give you two speech figures: between 2002 and 2010, you have increased the number of unemployed from 250,000 to nearly 500 thousand, on the one hand. [[László Teleki: That's not true! Nándor Gúr: Only the truth! You're chasing him away from the...]] ; on the other hand, during the same period, the number of employees decreased by 90,000. We are very proud of the fact that between 2010 and 2014, together with public employment, of course, but I can tell you to this day, it works with more than 320 thousand people than during the period of the change of government. This is a huge achievement and thanks to everyone, the labour organisation, which has helped us very much to report on such figures. As far as renewal is concerned, the Member must also know, not four years ago, but for many years, that in employment policy, by means of the labour organisation, employers who are looking for new jobs will be able to manage all the others through such familiar means and through various other channels, by means of friends. One: we need to increase the efficiency of this work; two: it is very important that as many people from public employment to the competition sector get there as soon as possible - this must also be done with sufficient efficiency in the next period. And what is very important: if we look at the statistics at the end of every month, we see that there are 400-500 thousand registered jobseekers, but there are 70-80-90-100 thousand vacancies in Hungary. So this is the anomaly that we need to reduce in the next period and make the operation of the organization even more efficient. That's what we're working on in the next period. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-172	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novak, Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Do you agree that the greatest problem of Hungarians is population loss? " The title is given below. The congressman has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the hearing of Zoltán Balog's presidential candidates, I made constructive suggestions in the area of population policy, but I did not get an answer. Nor to my first, most important, all-important question whether you agree that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss. Because Jobbik dared to write it so categorically in his program. So I didn't ask whether it was one of the biggest problems, but whether it considered it the largest. There is a big difference, because if we put the task of halting population loss first, we cannot, for example, vote off our proposals for demographic change based on a lack of resources. Then radical VAT cuts should be made for the articles needed to raise children. Then a state-supported home and rental-building and purchase programme must be established so that families can be set up at home instead of fleeing abroad. Then the social card must be introduced so that the family support money is not translated into the needs or passions of parents that do not involve raising children. Then the family tax relief should be extended to several other taxes so that lower-income workers can also benefit from it. In the case of the fourth child, it is necessary to extend and increase the amount of the family tax allowance per child, even to a symbolic extent, but it would be justified to appreciate and promote a family model with four children. [[16.30]] The second child's discount should then be introduced in a number of areas, such as public transport, camping and catering, where today only large families are entitled to a discount. Then the family support system should, like the pension system, be followed by inflation. Secretary of State, I could list the continuation of Jobbik's professional proposal for a long time, but the basic question I am looking for is: do you agree that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss? Thank you for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-174	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-175	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's measures speak instead of declarations, which has happened over the past four years, that if there was an area for which we have provided almost unlimited resources, especially in the case of family-type tax relief, which leaves more than HUF 500 billion in the family pocket overall, this proves the importance of family policy within the government's activities, as the support for families has not been given for a very long time. We must not only think of the Bokros package, or not only of the socialists' intention to tax the family allowance, but also if we look at it objectively, families and family members have not received such material appreciation in Hungary in a very long time as they do now. The most important part of this is, as I said, the introduction of family-type taxation, which is not only family-type taxation, but also, if you can say, family-type contributions, as contributions have been covered by the system of family-type benefits for a year now. Thus, a family with an average income of three children no longer pays taxes, net and gross income is the same. The congressman has asked for this to be an inflation follower. This fully follows inflation, as the total tax content remains with the family members, the total contribution remains with the family members. If the person's income is increased and the income tax is increased in proportion to 16 percent, then the larger amount will remain with the families, since the rate of the benefit will be the same. The congressman was referring to transport discounts. I'm glad to hear that. Even as a member of the capital, I presented the maternity pass, which has been completed since then, we have also added state-normative support, it has been extended, now mothers, children and children on board can also use this transport assistance. We can talk about the extra ged, the creation of cradle seats, kindergarten renovations, the contributions in the job protection action plan [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] The introduction of compulsory part-time work for mothers in the Labour Code and many other areas that really ensure the primacy of family policy. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-176	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The item on the agenda for questions has been completed. After two minutes of technical break, we will continue our work. Thank you very much. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There is a series of discussions between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the Commission's reports submitted to the bill on the publication of an agreement on the granting of State loans to the Government of Hungary for the financing of the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary. The submission is T/140. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Reports of the negotiating committees on the detailed discussion T/140/4. and T/140/5. was given to them. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, the author of the bill. Mr Secretary, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of ten minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As you know, the Intergovernmental Agreement on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy was signed on 14 January 2014 with the Government of the Russian Federation. The Convention shall be adopted by the Parliament in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article II of the 2014 Act. published by law. In order to achieve the cooperation laid down in the Convention, the Russian party provides Hungary with a state loan to finance the maintenance and development of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The agreement on the EUR 10 billion credit facility concluded on 28 March 2014 serves to ensure and ensure the proper use of the interstate loan to the Hungarian Government. The credit agreement allows the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to remain the sole owner of the power plant until the end, so the price of the electricity produced can only be a Hungarian decision. As promised by the government, immediately after the establishment of the new Parliament, the bill on the announcement of a loan agreement between the Hungarian and Russian States was submitted. The proposal sets out the full text of the agreement and clearly sets out the benefits of the interstate loan agreement with the Russian party for Hungary. As a summary of these, I would like to point out that the loan agreement has been concluded for a very long 30-year period and that the repayment of capital should only start after the new blocks have been put into operation. During the initial period prior to the repayment of capital, interest rates of 3.95 per cent and then rising in lanes are also more favourable than those available on the market. Under these conditions, the loan is in line with the financing capacity of the Hungarian budget and also complies with the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law. I would also like to stress that the Hungarian-Russian framework agreement already approved by Parliament also ensures the construction of new nuclear power plant blocks, the safe dismantling of existing installations, the provision of fuel for the power plant, the transport of spent fuel. A solution has therefore been found to cover all elements of the renewal of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and ensure consistency between them. [[16.40]] Nor should the impact of the investment on the economy be underestimated. It is expected to create 10,000 new jobs and increase the total national product by up to 1 percent. According to the agreement with the Russian party, 40 percent of the EUR 10-12 billion investment can be carried out by Hungarian companies. This means a minimum order of EUR 4 billion for the Hungarian corporate sector and at least EUR 1 billion for the Hungarian state register. We are also convinced that energy policy must also pay more attention to the aspects of competitiveness. By implementing the investment, we will also achieve that the energy supply that is essential for growth will be available to the Hungarian economy at competitive prices. Overall, the large-scale Paks investment in the national economy has significant positive effects both for energy supply and security, for the competitiveness of the domestic economy and for the corporate sector and for public finances. With all these considerations in mind, I am sure that we have chosen the best solution for Hungary when choosing how to finance the Paks expansion. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-178	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and inform him that, at the end of the debate, he will have a little more than five minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The Committees have indicated that they do not wish to put forward a rapporteur, and so now it is up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Congressman Mihály Balla came first. You have the floor, please.
u2014-06-23-179	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that, in order to avoid misunderstandings, we first clarify that we are not talking about maintaining capacity in Paks or the need for it, but about the associated credit agreement, the international agreement on capacity maintenance itself. Therefore, as a reminder, it allows the renewal of the power plant by leaving the sole owner of the power plant to the Hungarian State, and the price of the electricity thus produced will depend solely on us. The contract we are discussing is that Russia provides Hungary with a EUR 10 billion credit line for the construction and commissioning of the power plant, under conditions much more favourable than the market. The repayment of the loan must start only after the new blocks have been put into operation. After the first 11 years of maturity, only 3.95 per cent of interest is payable, but the interest does not reach 5 per cent after any stage of the duration of the loan contract, i.e. it remains lower than the credit available to the Hungarian State on the market. If the market conditions were to become more favourable, the loan could be repaid free of charge at any time. Moreover, the amount of EUR 10 billion of credit lines does not necessarily have to be used and interest shall be paid only on the amount actually received, as appropriate. The investment is the largest infrastructure investment in the post-system change period, which is expected to create some 10,000 new jobs and increase the total national product by up to 1 percent. Under the agreement, 40 percent of the investment can be carried out by Hungarian entrepreneurs, which means an order of EUR 4 billion for Hungarian companies and EUR 1 billion for the Hungarian budget. As a result of the borrowing, a nuclear power plant is built in Hungary with the most modern technology, which remains Hungarian-owned. During the Commission's debate on the proposal, as I understand it, the socialists objected to the fact that this construction was based on credit. But as for the loan, the MSZP could be more modest, in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, the MSZP in 2009, when everyone knew they were going to fail, took EUR 14 billion from the IMF. I would like to ask my fellow Members to take a look at what was built of this amount in this country. In the debate on the bill before us, the socialists also came up with the expired argument that the preparation of this treaty was carried out in secret. In that case, please respond to the fact that no opposition representatives took part in the Economic Committee meeting on 17 December 2013, where János Lázár provided information on the issue. The item on the agenda announced in the invitation was entitled "Information on the steps taken to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, " but none of you felt it was important to go to the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant with the described funding conditions increases security of supply, reduces gas dependence and allows energy prices to be kept in check, thereby increasing Hungary's competitiveness. Please support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-180	Thank you very much. We now have Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, You are selling Hungary's energy independence for HUF 3000 billion of foreign currency loans. 23 June 2014 will be one of the black days of Hungarian history, because the entire Hungarian right hand will then provide the Hungarian economy to Russia. This day will be included in the history books, like the day that Viktor Orbán and his circle sold Hungary to the Russians on the basis of a secret pact, along with their secret background deals, based on secret or non-existent impact studies and studies. This contract is only good for Russia. It is a good business, because it will get market and order, with a fixed interest rate loan, it will get you back double or more than HUF 3000 billion instead. Hungary is a bad business because public debt is increasing significantly. Such a long-term loan cannot be taken on a fixed rate basis, and it is unacceptable that this contract does not contain a single pass concerning the possibility of reviewing this fixed rate at any time over the decades. As I said, this loan amount has to be repaid with interest, up to HUF 6,000-7,000 billion. This means that the Hungarian people will owe Russia 600-700 thousand forints. This loan will keep the government and Hungarian people in captivity through the budget, because every year the budget will have to face the need to plan and pay for this loan repayment. You have broken the consensus that you have referred to here, Mr Secretary of State, which was contained in the 2009 Parliamentary Decision, because it clearly stated that it is only possible to talk about Paks before an open public investigation, supported by studies. Instead, you have concluded this treaty in a closed circle, with a secret pact in Russia. Neither civil society organisations nor a wide range of society could know or know the circumstances of this investment. That is why we have proposed and proposed that an ad hoc committee be set up to focus on the supervision of the investment if the public has not been provided in preparation. In this ad hoc committee, outside the parties, civil society organisations should have the opportunity to be informed. This ad hoc committee oversees the preparation of the investment, the use of this money, as if these contracts were secretly concluded, there is a suspicion that they intend to use this amount in an inappropriate way. And this committee should also check that 40 percent of Hungarian suppliers can be involved in this investment. And allow me one more reaction, fellow Members. Even during the general debate, the IMF borrowing of the last government has already been made. You have repaid these loans from loans with much higher interest rates on the market. I'm asking you, from all the loans you've got from the market this time of year, what you've built. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Stadiums.]] That's right, stadiums. I think that the two borrowings are not comparable, because this will be spent on an investment that this society has not discussed, this society has not come to know the details of this, and it will develop an energy dependency that the Hungarian people are not prepared for, and in many decades they will face the fact that this step was wrong. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Although it is said that international treaties should be voted in favour, the Hungarian Socialist Party votes against this proposal. Thank you very much. [[16.50]]
u2014-06-23-182	Thank you very much. It's time for Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-23-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Possibly Other Politics sees this issue in a completely different way than the Fidesz and the rest of the nuclear coalition. However, I have the good news that we see it the same way as most of Hungary, who also oppose the fact that they are destined to take such an incredibly bad step. These people who are watching the broadcast now, and they see this debate, they agree with us, the May Other with Politics, and they think that what you're doing with this contract is a fatal mistake. Let me, however, remember for a sentence the first version of the Orbán-Putin pact, the framework law voted for in February. The specialty of this, ladies and gentlemen, is that it still violates the national legal order, since it has not been possible for your lawyers to draft a treaty that does not conflict with the law on national property in 2011. So to this day, I don't really know what Fidesz intends to do about it. But I'm sure the way it is now is a violation of national law. Now, let's talk about the current daughter of this law, which is going to be voted here, I don't know, in the Hungarian Parliament within the hour. This contract basically has two problems. One is that it is a one-sided reflection of the interests of the Russian party. I could also say that this is good for the Russians and bad for the Hungarians, always and in every way, every letter. I could also say that from 2026 we have to pay even if we do not have a nuclear power plant, I could say that the Russian party decides what is performance and what is not. But I can also say that very harsh penalties will be imposed on Hungarians if we cannot pay them in time; so hard that even your state's vision is raised in this law. Let me also add that you have talked a lot about who should be in debt here. You know who should be in debt? No one. No Putin, no Lagarde, no one should be in debt. It is quite simply necessary to implement the programme that LMP has put on the table, the renewable Hungary programme, which can debate the whole country through local economic development, with jobs that are crisis-resistant and jobs that can provide a safe livelihood for less qualified people in this country. It is interesting that the people who destroyed this country, I could start with Gyurcsány-Bajnai, I could continue with Viktor Orbán, but I could also mention the Szigetvári Viktor who did a lot for Paks' communication to make it work, they are not quite on the same page. But I can tell you one thing. We are progressing along the principles, we have always had the same opinion about Paks, and will always be the same, and time will prove us, because the future is not for nuclear technology, but for the renewable sector.
u2014-06-23-184	Thank you very much. It is now up to Congresswoman Szabó Timea. Congresswoman, I would like to remind you that you have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have said in the general debate, no one can vote for the credit agreement, who is important to Hungary's political and financial independence, because the arguments the government has come up with are all false. For example, it is not true that the country's electricity demand will increase in the long term. The essence of the post-crisis European development model is that there is economic growth without increasing energy use. And in increasing energy efficiency in Hungary, there is still a huge reserve, according to the Századvég, of one and a half decks. It is not true that the planned Paks expansion means cheap electricity. In the two new reactors, the electricity price will be 30 forints per kilowatt hour, at which almost everyone produces electricity cheaper in Hungary, and in the European electricity market electricity can be purchased for a third of that. In addition, the expanding nuclear power plant would cost every Hungarian citizen 700 thousand forints each. It is not true that enlargement increases the country's energy independence, and at present Russia has a share of over 60 percent of the Hungarian energy consumption, which the new Russian nuclear reactors turn into over 80 percent dependence. We cannot link our future to Russia, which cherishes expansion efforts. If Hungary did not want to be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom a few years ago, by quoting Viktor Orbán, then it cannot now desire to be the happiest barracks of the Rosatom. Foreign investments in the Russian energy sector always have a political price. And recently, Orbán knew this when he said: " The power, social and economic arrangement that is built in Russia is another system than the one that we are building in the European Union. We have certainly joined the European Union for a different system than what is now being built in Russia. " Ladies and gentlemen, Those who continue to imagine Hungary's future in Europe and not in Russia's embrace must vote 'no' for this secret loan agreement signed in Moscow. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2014-06-23-186	It's time for Congressman Sándor Burány, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-187	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This loan agreement will brutally increase the Hungarian government debt, which is still a terrible burden for Hungarian society. In all the professional arguments so far, you have claimed that this will not be a problem because the Hungarian debt has so to say been on a declining path. Ladies and gentlemen. That's quite simply not true. Whichever official data you look at, for example, the numbers of the Government Debt Management Centre, you will see that the central budget debt has never been so high. For example, if you look at the last issue of the National Bank of Hungary published on this subject, you can see that, compared to the performance of the economy, the level of public debt exceeds 84 per cent, not decreasing, but increasing in the past four years, the Hungarian government debt has entered a growing path. Those are the facts. Of course, they could say they've done various impact assessments, and they're saying what they're saying. The problem is, it's quite simply a lie. We find it outrageous that today Hungary's public opinion had to learn from a court ruling that the government did not order any analysis or any impact assessment. A case of this magnitude is presented to the Hungarian Parliament by basing the presentation solely on the professional calculations made by its own employees. In such a far-reaching case, it would be quite simply impertinent, even in a minor case. We could also say that it's okay, then let's order such a study. We did that for our part, by the way. Last Thursday, as Chairman of the Parliament's Budget Committee, I sent a letter to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council. I asked him, in view of the serious concerns, that the Fiscal Council, as an independent professional body with permissions, should prepare this study in its own jurisdiction, make it available to the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, and that the Hungarian Parliament then make a decision. To this end, the MSZP faction today initiated to postpone this debate and this vote for a time when sound professional calculations are available. You have also swept this argument off the table, and in voting on the agenda, you have made it clear that you want to vote on this issue today. There is no doubt that the pro-government representatives, who themselves have not read any studies on this subject, will vote. This decision means one thing: today we call back the Russians. We call back the Russians, and with their money, with their companies, we want to make this investment basically. This will not only impose brutal burdens on public debt, but also increase our energy dependency. In fact, it makes this energy dependency great towards a country that has made it clear in recent weeks that, when it comes to enforcing its political interests, it will not be deterred by any means. Hungary cannot make this decision in this form. The MSZP has a firm position to say no to this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Your responsibility is great now. I understand the faction discipline, a lot of things. However, one thing is clear: this makes the state of public finances and the issue of energy supply a fundamental risk in Hungary for the coming years and decades. [[17.00]] That's a risk you can't take. You want to lead the country against the wall with the courage of a blind horse. Please don't do this. Follow the example of MSZP, vote no. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-23-188	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have Members who ask for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Hungary certainly needs renewable energies. He needs solar, earth and hydropower, but he does need nuclear power. Jobbik has always been in this consistent position, and unlike the other opposition parties, we believe that the two are not just opposite each other, but they are complementary and demanding each other. In order to spread renewable energies, basic power plants are needed to ensure the energy supply of Hungary, stability of supply, regardless of weather conditions, and at the same time to regulate the volume of electricity from renewable energies. Therefore, we calmly agreed to the construction of the new blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the international treaty on enlargement was approved with a calm heart. However, we are not so calm in the final vote on this framework financial agreement. Jobbik thought differently about the financial solution, which my fellow Member János Volner spoke about in his speech and at his press conference about how to solve this issue by using Hungarian funds, using the Hungarian bank deposits, with a guaranteed yield of sovereign debt, without taking on a foreign loan and particularly increasing the public debt, or imposing such a burden on the state budget which has already been burdened. Jobbik has been charged with several times in the European Parliament election campaign with whose interests it serves. It is clear that Jobbik is the only one who is truly serving national interests on this issue, because obviously we were not the ones who met Russian politicians for a conspiracy purpose and a EUR 10 million a contract was signed to increase Hungary's debt. We have served only Hungarian national interests with this proposal, tabled by my fellow Member János Volner, and we will keep only the Hungarian national interests in mind when we vote with abstention in the final vote on this framework financial agreement, because we cannot accept the financial solution, but the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the construction of the new blocks, in our view, is necessary. The speaker of the Hungarian Socialist Party spoke about the setting up of an ad hoc committee, in which we agreed, as we announced at our press conference with Zoltán Balczó and Jobbik in February that it would be necessary to set up a case-by-case committee, which will accompany the investment and monitor the execution of this EUR 10 million contract by the main representative of the people, Parliament. However, the manner in which the Hungarian Socialist Party presented this proposal has shocked us, to say the best of all, because, according to their proposal, not only would this ad hoc committee have a pro-government majority, but even the chairman of the committee would be given by the governing parties. This is what we said at the recent press conference that it is clear here that the interests of the government parties of the last 24 years are in agreement, because how can we entrust a government investment of EUR 10 million to control the governing parties, and a goat to control the cabbage. Only a case-by-case or investigation committee with opposition leadership can be envisaged in this respect. The logic of common sense dictates that. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Therefore, we cannot accept a proposal where the parties of government control themselves about how these ten million euros are spent. We really think it is very important that the 40 percent that will theoretically land in Hungarian businesses will indeed land in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and not in a Public Machine or Simicska interest. It was also mentioned that civil society organisations should be given more information about the investment, which is why this ad hoc committee is needed. But if you are once included in the proposal for a decision to set up the ad hoc committee that the members of the committee should only be representatives with type C national security screening, how do we want representatives of civil society organisations to be allowed there? By the way, you are quite right in it, and this is what we did at the time, because there are indeed points in these treaties that hide a state secret, requiring representatives with such a rating to attend the committee meeting. Of course, we consider it to be an opposition-led committee. I will also say that a opposition-led committee which has not been involved, participated, blackmailed, ordered or captured in its dealings with the government of the last 24 years or Paks. So basically, if you look at parties with the right support, Jobbik is the only party that can be considered in this regard. [[Interjection: Are you sure?]] We therefore support the establishment of the committee and will continue to support it with this amendment that, of course, we do not consider pro-government leadership acceptable. In conclusion, I can say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will continue to support the use of nuclear energy as a necessary situation in Hungary in the future, but we are also struggling to ensure that renewable energies are given as much space and spread as possible, with, of course, professional foundation and not in such a vibrant manner as certain opposition factions or representatives do. I think that abstaining is the vote that expresses the professional position that Paks' enlargement is necessary. However, we have put an amendment on the table that should have been considered by the governing parties. Jobbik would follow this financial financing solution, which I outlined at the beginning, I explained. Thus, we will reward this in practically favour of extending Paks, but with a vote in favour of this contract on financing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-23-190	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I've seen these futuristic movies when people sit down, there's a monitor in the middle and brainwashing. I kind of feel like we're witnessing something like this. I cannot believe that no one in 133 Fidesz MEPs is questioning whether this is really a good investment. Congressman Balla tells us how to create 10,000 new jobs. I counted and saw that it costs 300 million for a new job from this loan; it costs 300 million, while the National Employment Fund or the EAFRD requires a new job to be created per 2.5 million. With that kind of money, there should be 1.2 million new jobs if we follow the national strategy. On debt: the debt ceiling is clearly limited by Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, setting out what can be done. That's why we think it's against the law. Besides, let us know what technology we are buying and what we are doing; at the moment, we are taking a bad one from the nuclear reactor - which I cannot agree with, because I do not believe in the concept of nuclear safety, because there is no such thing, right, that can go wrong. You're buying a Zsiguli. A Zsiguli is being bought at this age and a Zsiguli is being paid back in ten years. This is a terrible business! When you talk about job creation, Mr Balla, it is important to think that all these resources, from which we could improve energy efficiency or build small energy supply centres, would not create jobs centrally, but would create jobs throughout the country, in your own constituency, through many fires and building businesses. And not ten thousand new jobs, but 1.2 million if you count one job per 2.5 million. So it's economically bad, it's bad for our energy security, it's bad for the countryside, and it doesn't make good use of the resources that are available at the moment. I can only ask you to think whether this is what you really want, and you really think that this is a good direction for Hungary. Because I am convinced that an individual elected Member should not want the country to be indebted to himself in this way. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment in the remaining timeframe. [[No one's reporting. Dr. András Schiffer: KDNP!]] I don't see any contact. I see that Mr András Tállai is preparing to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[17.10]]
u2014-06-23-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Although this is a debate on a draft law on the signing of a credit agreement, the final debate, as usual in Parliament, covered a lot of things. I must admit, I am a little surprised at the speech of the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, as they feel that they have no confidence in Hungary. [[Interjection from the lines of the MSZP: Not against you.]] Therefore, they do not have the confidence that Hungary will be able to repay this loan when the nuclear power plant is already producing, because then it is necessary to start the repayment of capital. They don't have confidence, but in 2008, when they were able to take credit for HUF 14,000 billion without any contract, without any bill, in fear of losing their power, from the IMF, they had self-confidence. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They had self-confidence at the time because, moreover, the deadline for repayment was set for the Fidesz government. And well, well, the Fidesz government has repaid that loan. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: But from expensive credit.]] The fact that you have no confidence does not mean that the governing parties, Fidesz-KDNP, have no confidence. Another interesting observation is that Fidesz is doing all this secretly. Well, I think that we adopted a bill in February, and that we have adopted a bill now, so that the criticism of secrecy does not stop at all. [[Noise.]] I think that when the energy part of the case is being attacked, that something else should be done, that we have not heard a professionally thorough discharge in the general debate, either, that Paks' power supply will otherwise be triggered by what they intend to do, that amount of energy. [[Intercoms from the LMP lines: We told you. We wrote it down. The president's ringing the bell.]] So it is not enough to argue that it is said orally in Parliament that it will be modified by renewable energies. [[Noise.]] I believe that all these criticisms by the opposition are particularly political in nature. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's just the way it is. Defiance.]] , and not professional; neither in terms of the content of the agreement nor in terms of the current legislative part of the credit agreement, they are subject to political indications. I believe that the findings that are in the proposal and which have been made by the pro-government parties are correct, and I believe that this treaty will be in Hungary's interest. You may not be sitting here in Parliament in '24 when the repayment starts, but believe me, even if Fidesz is a government, the repayment will be fine, and the power plant will be fine. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in today's decisions. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to the bill amending Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. Imre Vas and Balázs Simon Róbert Fidesz MEPs' own motion T/156. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee on a detailed debate T/156/8. they have been granted a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/156/10. by serial number, and the summary report on the Commission's amendments to the in-depth debate T/156/11. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-195	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that last week's meeting of the Legislative Committee discussed T/156. It submitted a bill amending Law No I of 2004 on sport and presented 19 amendments to it with 8 non-voting and 1 abstentions. The summary report was adopted by the Committee with 19 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the motion of the Committee on Culture, which mainly clarifies the legislative text originally submitted from a data protection point of view, as well as the legislative committee's text-focusing proposal. At the committee meeting, Jobbik, famous for pro-police, discussed the justification of the bill. The stadium area seems to be an exception to their general policy approach. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] I'd like to tell you, too... [[Crying out of Jobbik's ranks: Easy, Congressman. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then we'll listen to you. I stress that the bill before us offers only one opportunity for sports leaders, depending on their financial possibilities at the time of entry, to filter out former disruptors by using different modern technologies, and to act effectively against those who are in the future who are in conflict with the spirit of fair play, thus also facilitating the creation of a family-friendly fan base on sports fields. That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented in a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-06-23-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I say to Mr Szűcs, there is a great difference between pro-police and the establishment of a dictatorship. You're building a dictatorship, and we're pro-police right now. This law is not about anything else, because it is possible to say words here, and the reasons which are acceptable to the public. For reasons like what you said about families going to matches, it's against the hooligans, it's against the rioters, it's all about identifying the Renitants, it's all a lie. For example, if a family of four wants to buy annual season tickets, it will mean 250 thousand forints to watch the four season tickets at the Stadium on Üllői út. It will indeed be a family-friendly service. Moreover, such a system, which you are about to legislate here, is not in a sports stadium anywhere in the world, so there is no such system anywhere in the world. In Hungary, you will be the ones who want to introduce this. Let me tell you, one of the law's petitioners, Erik Bánki, told me on TV, he's very proud to have such an access system, such an identification system is in the CIA and the FBI, so when you have to enter there, you have one, not in a sports stadium. I don't know how much that's consistent with your pro-police or how much that means, say, building a dictatorship, if any. But let us move on to the amendments that are included in the summary in principle. A bad law is very difficult to make up for, it can't be, it's obvious. This is a law that you should have withdrawn, because you are trying to propose amendments here, but even with these amendments there are a lot of constitutional problems with the law. For example, you said in the amendment that, when the access system is applied, the director can compare the identity of the viewer at the time of entry with the data of the sports police register at the request of the police. So again, the director. But they no longer determine who can be a director; who can manage these data. And to say the past period, because in recent years there has been very little disorder in sporting events, however, there have been several cases in the director's crews where people who, as public criminals, were convicted of murder and may still be present as directors. [[17.20]] So what does that mean? It means that these people will have access to these personal data. Do you think that's normal? So that's the principle of pro-police? We're happy that at least what we've raised... because what is this whole identification system about? It's about fans who just want to go to the game, they didn't do anything, they're doing almost a robbing process that the state can otherwise do. We have raised the question of whether this is appropriate, and I have also given an example that it is quite worrying that there are children who are underage here who want to undergo such a procedure. It looks like you've heard this because you've submitted that from now on you'll only have to apply these abduction processes over 14 years old. I am also concerned about this, because if a 15-year-old child was to be questioned by the police, it would be mandatory for the parent to appear. But that's what you said. And then you were talking about the hash code, and you were proud to say that it wasn't biometric data. We raised the problem. These aren't decryptible codes, you said. And then, when we said that, but these are decryptible codes, because that's why they don't use them in electronic signatures, then you quickly solved that by renaming the hash code as biometric data from now on, and that's when they solved it, and from now on it won't be decipherable. Yes, you can. We're talking about the same thing, but they gave the child a different name. That's what they said, isn't it? Another, which is also rather strange, is that it is said that personal data recorded at the time of entry should be deleted immediately after entry or in the event of refusal of entry. If you immediately delete the data when someone is not allowed into the stadium, then what remedy will be available from here on out? Or are you not going to delete these data, or are you going to justify someone, say, not being allowed into the stadium? In my opinion, this seems to be a bit of a concern, and it is clear. They said - and so I said - that it was not biometric data; here more Members stood up continuously than the general debate, asking for it, these are not biometric data. And then I'll tell you, in the final version of the law, it says that these are biometrics, we're talking biometrics. They also said that this is not mandatory, that it cannot be made compulsory, that it does not have to be made compulsory. Well, it doesn't have to be so binding that it's already mandatory in the Ferencváros Üllői út Stadium, who wants to go in... [[György Balla applauds.]] You can clap, Mr. Group Director. You can only go out to the match once, take your family out, and see how good this will be. Because it's easy to applaud these things from the VIP box, you just have to go out, sit down, say, among the fans, buy tickets, try to buy tickets, and then you can go in. Tell me, Mr. Group Director - because you are a man of law, I understand, in the work of the Legislative Committee, several times - how could you have been selling tickets at the Üllő Road Stadium for more than a week and a half, and what are you doing at the rental sale? The identification methods here in the current law are required of the fans. Well, gentlemen, we're discussing this law now. It's not in force yet! So, they're legally taking off the cheerleaders there, say, these vein prints, the iris pictures, or are they illegal? [[Intruder: it's a felony!]] By the way, you said, Mr Secretary, when I asked you this in the debate on the Legislative Committee, that if you received an announcement, you would be examined. I report that it will arrive: the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will press charges in this case, because we are negotiating this law here, it is not a law in force. In the Ferencváros Üllői út Stadium a week and a half ago, people buy venous prints, iris samples, and everything else to buy a season ticket. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary strongly protests against such a record of people, thus identifying them, against the registration of people who have committed no crime, and we will therefore not be able to support this law. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, you have the floor.
u2014-06-23-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the fundamentally technical amendments have been made on the basis of the motion of the Committee on Culture, and by doing so, data protection concerns have also been eliminated, and this is an opportunity - as has been said - I would certainly ask the Members of this House to support the draft law in this amended form. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, you have more than nine minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Simicskó.
u2014-06-23-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think talking about sports, negotiating, arguing is important. Sport is a common language, we all understand, we all know, a lot of people still do sport, so it is right to make it clear that sport is a strategic sector, and a common national language, and even a universal language. I think it is also important to see what developments the government is making in order to support sports precisely so that our competitors and athletes can play sports under cultural conditions, precisely so that Hungarian families can cheer on sports competitions in a cultural, safe environment. We strive to bring as many sports competitions as possible to Hungary, to host as many world championships as possible, European championships, to the great pleasure of Hungarian fans and Hungarian athletes. So I think we should start from this, and these principles should be laid down before we make any comments. If we think together about how we can make sports fans and athletes more secure and civilized, then obviously we need to get to the point where, based on the experience of the past years, we strive to provide the most cultural conditions for families wishing to cheer on sports events, based on the professional opinion of the Hungarian Football Association and, of course, taking into account the expectations of the European Union in this way. The amendment aimed at this, on the part of the two Fidesz Members, as a rapporteur. From the government's point of view, this is worthy of support, and I would like to say that the comments, the objections that many people have expressed that this might be binding, would be a general principle of what restrictions on entry systems would be made by clubs, which have been adjusted and corrected by the amendments. This means that all of this is now in conditional mode, so that the club can use this tightening of entry through directors. Overall, the government supports the legislative committee's summarised amendment, which ensures data protection and clarifies the original proposal on several points. The introduction of an identification system based on a biometric template is an option, so I stress that it provides for the clubs as an opportunity, not as an obligation, to facilitate the access of families to sporting events, because it excludes that for people under 14 years of age, identification on the basis of the biometric template should be a condition for replacing the club card. So this is also an important refining, modification of the proposal. I must say that, overall, the Government accepts and supports the amendment in this regard, and I would also ask this House to give its support to this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Cultural Committee did not wish to present a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP. [[17 .30]]
u2014-06-23-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, I have reviewed the summary proposal, and obviously, as the rapporteur said, it does contain technical amendments, so it does not make us much happier after the general debate, that the hash code will be called a biometric template from here on out, or that the Secretary of State has not reassured us that it is not possible to request this type of data from people under 14. Because it hasn't been possible so far, since no one has ever been asked, no one could go through such a completely unnecessary torture before a visit to the game. So basically, although I have tabled an amendment myself, it is clear that their intentions have not changed since the general debate. However, I have also said that while they have a lot of ambition in the field of sports life, which could even be appreciated, I am thinking of completing the corporate tax relief system, which covers five visual team sports, but not the Olympic sports. But here, too, we have experienced abuses such as in the case of the stadium in Felcsút, where, in terms of the resources granted in that year, there was more to the one stadium than the four non-football professional associations and the total MOB. That was a certain HUF 3.5 billion. It's quite shocking in itself. It is also part of the everyday life of sports that they started to build large-scale stadiums in many places, otherwise the sustainability of these facilities is questionable. For example, in Debrecen no one has applied for operation yet, and the municipality will try to resolve this in some way. I'm not even talking about how expensive these facilities were, the Ferencváros Stadium and Debrecen Stadium were built well over ten billion. When, by the way, a few hundred million forints of bleachers with thousands of people were built in the framework of a partial stadium reconstruction. So these investments seem to be overpriced. But what must be said, in connection with these investments, is that our third slogan is that you are tidying up the stadiums and introducing registration, and now this complicated system has certainly reduced the average viewing numbers. You have to look at the N.B.I.'s average viewing numbers. This has also been said in the general debate, of course you may not be interested, because it is certain that there is no one in the facilities or as few people as possible, because then there must be order. But I would like to say that the remaining Hungarian football fans and sports fans are certainly not thrilled by the fact that it is becoming increasingly difficult to get into the matches. Obviously, we also have to say here that earlier, for example in the case of Ferencváros, the complexity of the fan card or registration has deterred many long-standing sportsmen and former football players from going to the game. There were also those who, by the way, would have gone out on such a sporting event with a sudden idea, and then told him what kind of torture he should have been subjected to, and they would not have let him in. I could give you a number of such names, but this was also mentioned earlier in the general debate. Because what I see is that Parliament has to make a move, let's say order in an area or react if social processes justify it. I think the Parliament did this in 2009. In 2009, he amended several laws in the form of a complex bill, when there were phenomena around football matches. For the record, it's been tidy ever since. In 2009, he was still a socialist government, and since then they have not been able to tell me anything in bleachers or football matches that there has been a large, large-scale, dusty, serious disturbance, for example, in the football NB I. This is what we are talking about, so there have been such phenomena in the area of football in previous years. That's why I didn't understand why fan registration is so hard-pressed and why people are being tortured, and why it reduces the number of people watching sports events. And you can say a game, which is outstanding, but overall, the audience has fallen on a large average. Compared to this, there are now three options for today, before the final vote. One of them is that you guys really managed to clean up the football field, but once again, I don't think that was a big problem. Then what is the need for this amendment? What is a social phenomenon, disorderly conduct, that justifies this? They can't say that. The second option is that you have failed in the past four years with this story, there are huge riots and incredible abuses around football courts in this regard, but then you didn't make the promise you made here a few years ago. There is also a third possibility, I think, that my fellow Member Szilágyi has already referred to this story, that in connection with one of the stadium investments, in connection with the investment of the stadium in Ferencváros, we have managed to install such a system, to start using it without legal authorisation, and then, in some way, we have to create the foundations for this to work. It was said here that about a week and a half ago rents were sold in this way. There is nothing to justify this legislation, and I would like to say it. It's been said that it's possible to get into NASA in this way. I'd like to tell you that this isn't a nuclear reactor, so I can transfer a little bit back to the previous agenda. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, you can!]] I would like to say that legislation ensuring the safety of sporting events and the presence of a large-scale cheerleader has been available in this country before your administration. You're making it harder and impossible for the fans to go to the match. They will be subjected to completely unnecessary tortures, both by this and by previous legislation, which will make their entry difficult and completely unnecessary. I would like to say that this does not make Hungarian football any better, that we should do completely different things about this. And, of course, there are serious data protection concerns, but perhaps my fellow Member Bárándy will talk about this later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-23-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I have received a false scenario, and there is no indication that Mónika Dunai wishes to comment on behalf of the Cultural Committee. Therefore, I now give the floor to Mónika Dunai in a six-minute time frame; so the rapporteur of the designated Committee on Culture is coming, and I apologise to this House. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-23-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The Cultural Committee shall adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Decision 45. T/156 on the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport pursuant to Section 5 of the Act on Sport T/156/7. The Committee tabled an amendment closing a detailed debate to the Speaker of Parliament. The aim of the present amendment of the Sports Act is to create a legal situation with a service-minded, family-friendly and cultural entertainment, the key to which is order and security for athletes and fans alike. The Cultural Committee accepted the wish expressed during the debate on the bill to ensure that the introduction of fans into stadiums by this amendment for safety should not become disproportionately lengthy and that children under 14 years of age should not be included in the use of the biometric template. On the basis of these and other considerations, our committee considered it appropriate to draft some textual amendments in order to achieve the above objective. As one of the elements of our proposal, the organizer applying the access system will only have an obligation and obligation to compare the entry tickets, passes and club card data with the data recorded by him or the sports police records at the time of entry if the police call the organizer to coordinate the data. In the absence of a call from the police, the organizer will have the possibility of data reconciliation, but it will not have a general obligation. Another direction of our amending proposal is to facilitate the access of families to sporting events, since for children under 14 years of age, it is excluded that the organizer can make identification based on a biometric template mandatory as a condition for replacing the club card. The third important element of our amendment proposal is the use of a more accurate and standardised biometric template instead of the word hash code not applied in Hungarian legislation. We also recommend supplementing the scope of biometric data necessary for the development of the biometric template with another element as an option, the fingerprint. [[17.40]] Our amendment proposal clarifies, it makes it clear that the introduction system using a biometric template is not mandatory for the organizer. As stated in the bill submitted, the possibility of the organizer to apply such a system, but the law still does not make it compulsory. The amendment also clarifies the proposed legislation from a data protection point of view. In this context, it becomes clear that the director must delete all personal data, otherwise processed and recorded only for a minimum period of time due to the generation of the biometric template, immediately after entry or in case of refusal of entry, and, on the other hand, the address of the viewer shall not be entered or rented. The proposal of the Committee on Culture also clarifies that the person in the Sports Police Register should be excluded from the venue of the sporting event or from a sports facility for which he has a decision to prohibit, prohibit or disqualify on the basis of the Sports Police Register. In addition to these substantive proposals, the package of amendments by our committee includes a change in language, which, with the adoption of the whole, our fellow Members can declare whether they really agree with our basic objective of ensuring order and security on sports grounds. Do you agree with the aim that a soccer match should be an event for which families, including children, are welcome and very safe, and do you agree that cheerleading in our country should always be culturally fun and football should be a holiday. The members of the Cultural Committee, with their comments and suggestions, wanted to help achieve the above goals and improve the law in this way, as we have a common duty and responsibility to create safe cheering conditions and a framework for safe cheerleading on the tracks. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the speeches. The next speaker, who predicted in writing, is Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2014-06-23-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In advance, I would like to answer my colleague Szilágyi: if they do this now without legal authorisation at a sports facility, it is a common crime. To handle sensitive data without legal authority, it constitutes the legal facts of unauthorised processing, it is a criminal offence. Of course, it's not the first time we've been faced with an illegal practice that is, for some reason, good for you, for some reason you see an opportunity, a business opportunity, for some reason, for him, for him, to pass a law, and what was a crime yesterday, Fidesz makes a law, and it's legal from tomorrow. That's how this country's been running for at least four years. Dear Parliament, The thing is, I'm not quite sure if they've considered the consequences of this bill. I am very sorry that the Secretary of State Tállai has already left the room, because I would like to ask him, let's say, whether it will be so that from August, let's say, before a Mezőkövesd match, in the newly built stadium in Földkövesd, a vein impression must be given before an NB II football match to enter the guest sector. What do you think? ! Has anyone in their right mind really thought about the consequences of this bill? It doesn't bother you that in the last ten years - Mr. Group Director, in the last ten years - there hasn't been any events in football stadiums that would otherwise justify tightening up. At the same time, it has been falling steeply in the last ten years - it is falling steeply! - the attendance of football events, the average viewer number of the Hungarian NB I is about there, as say, 30 years ago, the average viewer number of the regional championship. So you're gonna come up here and say you want to be safe for the families? I beg you, once, for once, to put aside what was manufactured for you from the Habony works, such bullshit. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] and try to think about the practical consequences of this bill. Do you really want Mezőkövesden and Békéscsaban to get vein impressions from the fans before the NB II football matches, when a thousand people go out there? The fact is that even in the event of the adoption of amendments, this bill is against the law, it has not been corrected. Of course, the bill itself is completely unnecessary, because of one thing, it is not unnecessary that someone will produce these systems, someone will benefit from it, just as someone did with the entrance gates in 2001; that it was not Hungary, it was not the Hungarian budget, it was certain, because it disappeared on the fur of the entry gate system, that is the case. They haven't contacted him since, and you've made it -- you've solved it with a similar feat -- instead, there's another system coming. And yes, I would like to ask the same question: since you have declared a fight against sport hooliganism in several waves over the past four years - if only I knew where the hooligans against whom we should now declare a fight - compared to this, it turns out that the measures taken by the second Orbán government are not capable of guaranteeing the safety of sports events. This proposal is against the law because there are other instruments to ensure the safety of sporting events. It is therefore not proportionate to limit the law, because there is a disproportionate limitation of the law in all cases where it is possible to achieve the same constitutional objective by other, lighter means. This proposal is also against fundamental law because there will be a parallel control system, there will be other ways to process the data of citizens, and there is no reason to otherwise establish such a database. Finally, there will be a number of missing targets, not to mention who will handle these data. If there really is a serious security risk in football facilities today, then the police - you argued years ago, otherwise correctly in addition to the police violence monopoly - will do their job if you think there is a security crisis in football stadiums. But the fact that private organisations are granted this right is the fact that private organisations which alone pose a security risk are handling sensitive data, it's quite simply amazing. Rather, it should be addressed that the organisations who are today [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the safety of football stadiums, what their background is. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker - against the time frame of the Christian Democratic People's Party - is Secretary of State István Simicskó.
u2014-06-23-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I pay close attention to this vehemency, which some opposition representatives, obviously driven by their concern for sport, say and perform, with great respect for this, but I would like to remind you that there are some things that you might like to mix up here. So the role of the government, clubs, associations, sports associations is different, and our role is different. I think that what sports wants to do is to consider politics, at least it is worth walking with open ears and an open heart, and we need to understand that the situation, as far as cheering is concerned, is undesirable, not good, not optimal. It is possible to say that there has never been any problems in football matches, it would be good to sense this, so I would like to remind you of a few things that we Hungarians, if you like, have seriously paid the price of, as well as the Hungarian Football Association and the Hungarian National Team. I would like to remind you of the time when Hungary's football team played a friendly football match against Israel, a preparation match, where there have been, indeed, phenomena, rhymes, incitements that exhaust the subject of racism. We've suffered this. I have to say, among other things, that is why we are not at the World Championship, because we had to play football against Romania with closed gates. So if you think it's right and right, then, of course, you don't have to touch anything, but just keep going the way you think it's supposed to go. I would also like to remind you that I also go to football matches - as many of my fellow Members here can say they are also going - but we do not always hear the best cheering. I am glad that, when support for teams, fans not only go out as spectators, but also encourage their favorite team, their beloved team, it is always good, it is always right, but we need to find its form, its cultured form, how to not offend others, how not to incite against someone, and not to raise children to hate, where appropriate. [[17.50]] In my view, it is not an optimal situation, but there is a reason for this proposal, and it is necessary to do so in order to be able to cheer more culturally and indeed to develop a kind of family-friendly cheering in the matches. We know that if someone commits an act, comes to a match with some bad intentions, then he has the great, great excuse to hide in the crowd. We know we have to do this. Yes, if a person who has performed a disorderly activity can be traced back, he may also hold back those who might be thinking about doing so. Retrievability, the finding of the person or groups who otherwise commit an emotional crime with a purpose, intent or purpose, in that situation, can be a deterrent, and it can mean a great deal to encourage more culturally in Hungary also in football matches. It's not aimed at anyone. This is an amendment for all of us, and I must reject the accusations that make any reference here to bad news, either the government or any club, about what intentions led it. Indeed, the intention on the part of the authors led to good, indeed fair intentions for those who submitted this amendment and the fine-tuning that we have done with the power of collective wisdom, the opinions of the committees, the Committee on Culture and Sports or the Legislative Committee, we believe that this can be supported. This is also the position of the KDNP, and we will therefore support this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-06-23-211	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I listened with interest to Mrs Mónika Dunai's speech, which was almost complete, which contains the mandatory fidesz elements of the pre-written victory reports. Maybe it's just efficiency and acceleration that's left out of it as a mandatory element. But the congresswoman is a new Member, so obviously, after a session or two, the list of these elements will be routine. I would just like to say that I have known Mr Simicskó's commitment to sport for a long time, and I do not doubt it, which is why I think he had a very good reason for not submitting the draft law before us, and for a very good reason that he is talking about sport and the cultural visit of sporting events, the purity of sporting events, not this law in fact. To me, Mr Secretary of State's speech was an explicit statement worthy of the Secretary of State and giving the basis for such a conclusion. And by the way, I think it's obvious to everyone that there's real motivation. That is what my fellow Members have said. There is such a system, and it requires legislation. If one considers this a bad assumption, I would like to suggest to you that because of this procedure - because the law does not have a retroactive effect, so it is likely that this procedure will take place - there is already a procedure in progress, since it has already been applied without the law. Obviously, the aim is to continue to apply it, now within the framework of this law. [[In the notary seat, Attila Móring József will be replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] However, in this law, as I would like to raise a problem with a law that is already on the agenda. This has been a problem for four years, and we would like to see less problems in this session and in this parliamentary term. What you're doing is you're actually submitting government referrals as a motion from your own representatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I have pre-confidence with all my fellow Members, but I find it difficult to imagine that someone at home is thinking about his constituency, and suddenly he thinks that a system with a hash code should be introduced, which, if this is not the case, should at least be authorised or introduced in the form of the collection of biometric data in this area. [[Noise.]] It's hard for me to imagine that someone's idea is coming at you, or maybe the voters are looking for it by creating such codes in connection with the visit to sports events. It is, then, that it was in the interest of one person that another Member took it in his name. The problem with this, ladies and gentlemen, is that this is an open circumvention of legislation, which does not go through, for example, the filters that government referrals go through. Thus, for example, the data protection authority could not comment on this legislation either, and therefore, in the procedure of the TAB, in the legislative committee procedure, there was nothing else to discuss but the fact that the chairman had subsequently sought the committee to see how this law should be put in order. So, this procedure, I think, is completely inappropriate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask you, even if the intention is good, to abide by the law. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-212	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2014-06-23-213	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Even the circumstances of the proposal were more than suspicious, because when we read Vas Imre's name in addition to a proposal, we know that Fidesz is preparing something particularly vicious. The last four years have taught us that. In addition, we have been reminded that Congressman Simon may have even read what he has submitted, but we have caught up with Imre Vas in the act of reading the proposal for the first time at the end of the general debate, because the word biometric could not begin at first - it is a difficult word, and I will sign it - to put it correctly. Deficiencies aside: this violates the Fundamental Law, human rights standards, is absolutely and completely contrary to several of the Constitutional Court's ruling decisions, and is in conflict with the constitutional principles of necessity and proportionality, since it is completely unnecessary and totally disproportionate. And think about how much practical problems this application will raise. Not only did you begin to apply a medieval principle and even apply a new principle - the presumption of guilt was a medieval principle, so you didn't start from the innocence of the perpetrator, but you assumed that he was guilty and had to prove his own innocence - but you also involved the principle of collective guilt, and from this combination you create the presumption of collective guilt: that is, you assume that the vast majority of the fans are potential offenders, a source of danger to the stadium order, to the lives, physical integrity, property security of those involved in football matches, sports events, and I can tell you for a long time that this is not the case. 98-99 percent of the fans come to the matches with peaceful intentions. And, you know, we might still be able to accept that if we set the logical order so that if someone commits any crime, this is proved by a final judgment, they will be found in a final judgment, say, as a punishment, they will have to go through such a procedure, so that they cannot circumvent the application of the law, snoop or infiltrate the stadiums, and even use such strict procedures to filter it out - we say, that there can be a negotiating basis, that makes sense, because there is already a person, the perpetrator has done something that makes that presence in sports events undesirable. This would be a completely different constellation, a completely different legal arrangement. But the idea that you are certain that you will do something and that you will be registered in advance is, again, a violation of human rights standards, a violation of the Fundamental Law, a violation of the law of the Constitutional Court. In addition, companies with a private-law relationship with a sports association with an unclear background - and I was very subtle - handle these special personal data, venous prints, fingerprints, palm prints, and I could list them for a long time - such companies... Ask your buddy Gábor Kubatov who is one of the fans of Ferencváros. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: You can give respect to your fellow Member!]] Aha! I can only give you the respect that someone deserves. Because Ferencváros hires people who squat 15 years for manslaughter. With a noble simplicity, he shot a man in the head. Do you understand? I think it's a scandal. I think that this scandal, and companies operating under the silent partnership of such people, will handle such special personal information. It's a big problem. In fact, it's a national security risk, if you can say so. The other one. If there will be clean security companies operating, and these companies will handle the data and watch fans enter with or without prints, we may be a little more relaxed. But I must repeat once again one specific example of the general debate: at last year's Fradi-Újpest match, which took place at Népstadion last autumn, a security guard, a person who, what God gives, is being prosecuted for suspicion of murder. [[18.00]] The victim's brother, his half-brother, recognized him, and he was completely illegally employed, and worked completely illegally in this match. That's why the fans aren't calm. In addition, the institution of family visits has long been known in cheerleading circles, because through such completely unnecessary databases, these silverback males have access to their data, they go to their families - please, this great Hungarian cheerleader is a reality - they are visited in their homes, and either by threatening their children or by taking their own lives, they are forced to do something, not do anything, or tolerate it. You know, that's the problem, and that's why we should have consulted the cheerleaders, which is why we should have consulted the cheerleaders, not jumping a tower head into the very dangerous nothing. I am sure that if there is still some truth, or if there is any truth left in this country, we will be able to cancel it with the help of the Data Protection Commissioner and the Constitutional Court. You are going to run into a very serious professional and political slap, which I have just said, which I could spare you if you were to withdraw the bill in this form and take it out in its form and talk about it if you held me accountable after a legal procedure, as I have just said, to prevent a crime from actually committed fans from entering stadiums, we would also be partners, it makes sense, it may be legal, but this, in this form, is a very, very dangerous construct from the reverse logic, and the presumption of collective guilt. So please take it back. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-214	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz.
u2014-06-23-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify a few things because I see that my fellow opposition Members either do not understand what this law is about or are deliberately misunderstood. They are alarming the public about the risks involved in data management, because companies with unidentifiable backgrounds have access to cheerleading data. Ladies and gentlemen, To do that, they should know the system that is currently in operation. In the current state of the law, there is no law, and with the current bill, security risks are even lessened, I'll tell you why. No one has access to data, my fellow Members, but only clubs and companies operating clubs have access to data when it is published. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Only them? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And Cubatov?]] the tickets or the fan card will be issued. Security companies at the point of entry do nothing but compare data, compare the data in the database with personal data if necessary. [[Dr. István Apáti: They are going on a family visit!]] But you're not going on a family visit, Congressman, because you don't have the data. Don't you get it? He doesn't have any data! [[Dr. István Apáti: We didn't say that wrong!]] No security company has access to data. He's never had access to it before, and he still has no access to the data. There's one thing we can rule out with this new system, biometric identification, whether it's based on a venous print or a fingerprint, we can even rule out the need to intervene at all. What's going on with this? What's happening, please, is that you arrive at the match with your purchased ticket, before you have a venous print taken from you, which, once again, does not have access to your data, I note that if you could access it, you would not be able to use it, because the security code generated by the impression of the vein would take 1,500 years to decipher today's technology, but I don't think anyone would do that. [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] That's why nothing else happens, Congressman, but you go in there. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the access system, you put your hand in the scanner, and in a second, if you want to go in with the ticket you bought, with no other ticket, the green light will let you in and enter the stadium. It'll take one second to identify him. No one's processing data. And the only reason the security guys are standing there is that if you entered the gate, they're gonna search you to see if you have a stabbing tool or something you can't take into the stadium. So it is not about data management, it is not about the fact that this would be against the basic law, or it would provide access to data. So the issue of abuse is also clarified. The percentage error in this entry system is 1 thousand. One thousand! There can't even be a problem with a facial identification system, which unfortunately has a 10-15 percent margin of error. This is also recognised internationally. There's no error here. I will give you one more advantage, honourable Member, which has not yet been discussed in this debate. At the beginning, when the deployment of this new entry system was raised, the opposition benches were told that it had some serious interests, and that would be much more expensive than the current system. Let me give you an example, Congressman. In Ferencváros Stadium, the solution to the installation of this vein kenner system and biometric identification costs HUF 10 million, i.e. 10 million Hungarian forints. If they wanted to solve the same with a facial identification system, it would have cost 250-300 million, so 25 times, 30 times more expensive, the system that does not otherwise achieve biometric identification in terms of its security grade through the vein scanner. So it's not only fast, it's not only safe, it's even much cheaper than it is now. I'm not even talking about the fact that it's essentially a Hungarian development. This is not yet the case, honourable Members, because it is a new development. I am sure that if the entry system at Ferencváros Stadium is activated and the fears and concerns that you are generating about this system, it turns out that, by the way, smafu, the system will have a green light at that moment, and I am sure that the installation of this system in the other stadium development will happen on those grounds. I would like to say one more thing about my fellow Member Apáti. I'm a cheerleader myself. I've never had a problem with identification, by the way. The presumption of innocence, by the way, deserves everyone right now. Therefore, only those who have been convicted or banned from the stadium for criminal offences or infringement proceedings cannot enter the stadium, but in order to do so, they must have a banning decision or a decision to refuse access to the event or to a sporting event. Therefore, it is not possible to ban anyone from the stadium, but this bill was proposed in order to guarantee the peace and security of the peaceful and peaceful majority. I think, as such, it will have its effect. So I ask you to think, or consider, that these concerns that you raise really stand on your feet. I think that it is not, and I think that the installation of this system is in the best interest of a peaceful and calm majority, that anyone who is banned from the stadium cannot even get in. It might hurt some people, because this system works with 100% security. No friendship, no fraternity with the security staff, no one who was otherwise banned can be allowed in. This could be hurting someone or someone. That's a tight group, a few dozen people. We are talking about tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who would like to visit in peaceful and calm conditions for matches and would like to see their family in Hungary in calm conditions. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] - Yes, Congresswoman, I'm talking about an annual level, not an event. [[Noise. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Barcelona game. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am talking about making this security system available at national level in all stadiums. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-06-23-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna make this brief, 'cause it's gonna limit time here, too. Erik Bánki said it was in the interest of a peaceful, calm majority. For the sake of a peaceful, calm majority, let us immediately put a pinch under people's skin so that they can become even more. Let's not do this. You kidnap people who have done nothing but want to go to a game. They're taking all kinds of data from them. The Secretary of State says the sports department wants it. I didn't know that in Hungary the sports profession is called Gábor Kubatov, because if Gábor Kubatov wants it, then he is the sports profession in Hungary today. He mentioned the Israeli match as an example. The Israeli match was a pity because it was the sports diplomacy failure of MLSZ and the Hungarian government at all, that we were punished. But tell me, Mr. Secretary, how are you going to stop these things from getting a vasectomy from someone? From now on, will it also be disorderly if Viktor Orbán is whistled out in Debrecen when he hands over, say, the championship medals? So, from here on out, are those people gonna make a riot or aren't you gonna make a riot? What you said, as an example, could be about that. And then he said it wouldn't be mandatory. I'm glad that Erik Bánki spoke, said in his TV statement that there is no such thing in the world, that the CIA and the FBI have such access systems, and there is nothing else, and he said that he hoped that this would happen in Hungary on all the tracks. Well, then it won't be mandatory if it's like this on all the tracks. Then he mentioned the professional competence of MLSZ. Mr. Secretary, this is ridiculous. If you've ever spoken to a cheerleader and head of security who's at MLSZ and is called István Samu, you wouldn't say such things. If he's doing anything for the fans, it's not. [[18.10]] The point is, maybe it was ten million, but then I don't know why we had to group 900 million for the Ferenc City stadium all of a sudden. I believe it was ten million. The fact is that so far there has been a cheerleading to European standards in Hungary, now there will be modern stadiums, and otherwise nothing, the great darkness. And now with this provision, there will be a modern stadium, and then, by the way, the great darkness. We don't have football. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We don't have a professional guard...
u2014-06-23-218	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-219	.......................................................................................................................................... There's nothing right, and we're gonna drive the fans off the field. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-220	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mrs Szabó Timea, an independent Member.
u2014-06-23-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only asked for the floor so that there would be a female cheerleader's comment. [[Lajos Korózs applauds.]] Here among all the men, and playing football shouldn't just be a man's privilege. Secretary of State Simicskó said that good intentions led the petitioners. But I'm asking you, what kind of good intentions do you have in mind that cheerleaders are criminals? That's not good intentions, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. István Simicskó: That's not what you're getting at.]] And here it has been said several times that there has not been one case in the last ten years that would have given you the basis for submitting such a report. Let me tell you that I don't know what Mónika Dunai referred to here for family-friendly visits, and I regularly go to football games and often take my son. So I think that these games are already family-friendly, no atrocities have occurred. In fact, I.D. has worked perfectly so far, since you have to give up the name, date of birth, search everyone. And there's more cameras than there are fans in these stadiums. Dear Mónika Dunai! If you want sport to be family-friendly, then, let's say, you shouldn't spend hundreds of billions on stadiums, you should build sports fields where poorer families can go, you should also build sports fields in small towns. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. Mihály Balla: They're building!]] To not only go to the stadium as a spectator, but also to participate in sports. That vein impression sounds pretty awful. I don't know what this is. Now someone has explained to me what this is. Seriously, what's the next step, they're gonna ask the fans for a full lab before they go in? Just think about it for a second. And, Mr. Secretary, really, sports is not Gábor Kubatov. [[Dr. István Simicskó: MLSZ!]] [[Dr. István Simicskó: MLSZ!]] Don't tell me that the sports department asked for this because in Gábor Kubatov's stadium (Dr. István Simicskó: MLSZ!) It's already been introduced. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And to do that, you have to make a law.
u2014-06-23-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-23-223	We're asking you to withdraw this stupid bill.
u2014-06-23-224	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the authors. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Imre, read it to me.]] Imrét Vas, Balázs Simon Róbert Fidesz, wishes to respond to what was said in the debate in the remaining 9 minutes and 21 seconds. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Read it, Imre. For signal:]] Congressman Vas Imre, you have the floor. [[Dr. István Apáti: Iron Man, let's hear it!]]
u2014-06-23-225	Thank you very much for the floor. My colleague György Szilágyi, who, by the way, I think said the same thing as in the general debate. [[Dr. László Varga: Wow!]] - so here's a four-pointer. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You don't change your mind every day!]] We are talking about a summary amendment - he was talking about kidnapping. I didn't answer back then, but if you did, [[Dr. István Apáti: That was the first time you read it!]] Say, you want to get a passport made, so you're being held prisoner, too? 'Cause they're still taking pictures anyway. [[György Szilágyi: You don't have to submit that much data there, by the way... the president is ringing the bell.]] And by the way, they're taking fingerprints. I'm gonna add one out of four, and I'm gonna need both. [[Dr. István Apáti and György Szilágyi: The state handles it!]] So on this basis, everyone who can either ID, passport, driver's license or whatever [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Why is there not enough I.D.?]] He's got an official I.D. on him, so they're gonna kidnap everyone, according to my colleague Szilágyi. [[György Szilágyi: The state is not a zrt.! It's not an economic company. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Member Schiffer is not in, but I recall that sensitive data can be handled in two ways: if it is authorized by law or if the person agrees to do so in writing. The other is that several of my fellow Members here are mistaken for the data from images, fingerprints, iris pictures and venous prints. That's an alternative to the bill. That means you don't need all of them, but you're an alternative, so you can treat one of them. [[György Szilágyi: Cross question: what is a venous print?]] I agree with my fellow Member from Abbot that 98-99 percent of the fans come with peaceful intentions, perhaps even more, and I trust that. But because of that, it's 1 percent or maybe less than 1 percent. [[Dr. István Apáti: The other from 99.]] We have to protect the other 99 percent. The bill does not make the operation of these systems mandatory. [[Dr. István Józsa: Don't even go to the game!]] As an opportunity, so if the club or the sports organizer, as the law says, decides that he wants to do so for his own safety as a cheerleader, then he will introduce it. I believe that everyone on the side of order supports the bill. So I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposals for amendments under the summarised amendment and the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place today, among the decisions taken. Now, Honourable Parliament, the Commission's reports submitted to the bill amending certain tax laws and related other laws and the debate on the summation of the amendment proposal will follow. Independent motion by Members Jenő Manninger and Lajos Szűcs T/168. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/168/8. they have been granted a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/168/10. on a serial number and a summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate T/168/11. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. They have a total time frame of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-06-23-227	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that last week's meeting of the Legislative Committee discussed T/168. It submitted a bill amending certain tax laws and related other laws and presented 19 amendments to it with 8 sexes and 1 abstention. The summary report was adopted by the Committee with 19 yes and 9 abstentions. The draft amending proposal contains, on the one hand, proposals for clarification from the Committee on Budgets and, on the other hand, a proposal from the Legislative Committee which amends certain sections of the VAT Act so that it is not a problem that the bill before us will enter into force only after 1 July. There was no substantive debate at the committee meeting, so I call for the support of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-228	Thank you very much. The minority opinion will now be presented in a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs.
u2014-06-23-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I try, like the interpreter of the majority opinion, to give an example of what the minority opinion was. Although there has been no substantive debate, there are two substantive parts of this draft that I would like to speak about. First, however, I would like to say that those remaining in the minority criticized the way in which this law was adopted and the technique of amendments. Because, Honourable Parliament, tax laws are usually negotiated at the end of the year, linked to the budget, usually representing a wallet or a government, usually not as individual motions. Yet, this draft is how he yells that it was submitted by the government, and obviously with a view to harmonisation, most of it. [[18.20]] It was only a special curiosity that this process could have been very fast, there was no time to think of everything, because, in my opinion, during the banner of the Committee on Budgets, there were once again government pen amendments which indicated that the rapid work had not been completely prudent, and that the proposals had to be grudged a little more. However, I would like to say two things. On the one hand, the fact that this draft does not allow the development aid for broadband internet access to be published, but the special interest of it, referring here to the Paks debate, does not allow the development support for the various energy-saving solutions to be benefited. This must be seen as a mistake, because in the next period, energy use will not only be about whether there is a reduction in the costs, but also about how we can use less, possibly to the satisfaction of everyone's pockets. The other item is the fact that, contrary to the proposal of the MSZP, the draft once again raises the issue of fuel coloring. Now he has thrown this problem a year away, but in our opinion it should be removed from the matter, not only because it costs extremely expensive fuels, but also because it seems that the technical solution and method of doing so is not entirely simple, and I think that, whether it is political or professional, they have moved this introduction away a little bit, but it is not the way to try to levitate this issue. It's got to be off the schedule, it's got to be forgotten, and we can close the deal with that. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity, thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-23-230	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger.
u2014-06-23-231	Ladies and gentlemen, In the debate, we heard the earlier arguments repeated. Allow me, in short, to repeat that the main purpose of the bill was EU compliance. The proposal basically ensures that development tax relief can be used for investments in Hungary in the next year, largely under unchanged conditions. In the case of broadband internet services, it eliminates eligibility in the form of tax relief and the investment title for broadband internet services has been removed from eligible titles because, contrary to the eligibility of investments for this purpose, the European Commission imposes conditions which are incompatible with the system of tax relief. But that doesn't mean that the government doesn't support the deployment of broadband internet. What is about investments in energy efficiency, I repeat, is that the support for investments in energy efficiency does not in fact cease - it is a technical amendment - but is incorporated into the aid scheme for investments for environmental protection. The amendments are more technical clarification, so I really think that the earlier justification of the bill is right now. Thank you for your attention, I ask for your support.
u2014-06-23-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, at the end of the debate, the authors have 8 minutes and 25 seconds to say the closing word. I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Secretary Gábor Orbán.
u2014-06-23-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, I would also like to highlight two important points in the amendment. One of the most significant parts is the section on development tax incentives. Development tax relief is one of the most important instruments for economic development, one of the key keys to our competitiveness. It is very right that this amending proposal adapts the domestic regulation of development tax incentives to the changed framework of EU legislation. The government will support you for this. The other element, which we would like to emphasise, is the pass for general sales tax. This part is also supported by the government. We agree that in the case of periodically cleared transactions, the date of the tax liability should remain the same. This is very important for taxpayers. Overall, in summary, I would like to ask you to support the summarised amendment.
u2014-06-23-234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Budgets did not present a rapporteur in the scenario. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MEP, who has applied in writing, MSZP.
u2014-06-23-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/168. Bill No.1 on the amendment of individual tax laws and related other laws in the presentation of my honourable fellow Member Jenő Manninger, unfortunately, is far from a masterpiece. The proposals brought forward for the summary debate show that part of this was, therefore, noted by the authors in the context of the amendments and, let us say, not at the expense of the otherwise rather circumscribed and diversified bill. Two amendments were tabled in the general debate. The MSZP proposal concerned the abolition of the fuel labelling system. We continue to maintain this, it is completely unnecessary to levitate a system of unnecessary marking, which will increase the price of fuel at very high prices. You should have just left this, Mr. Manninger. If this proposal had a serious merit, it would be that this fuel marking system would be permanently abolished. The other is a fidesz proposal that has brought clarification of the bill. The government may not have been surprisingly supportive of Fidesz's proposal and the MSZP's proposal in the present case. The summary amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee corrects the errors of the original proposal. The point is that Fidesz's clarification proposals were retained by the TAB and amended the provisions of the VAT Act on periodic clearing transactions, even because it would have been difficult to achieve in the form submitted. In addition, it continues to blame the provisions on the fuel labelling system. The reason for the amendments to the Legislative Committee is that it is not expected that this law will be published in the Gazette by 1 July 2014 and that the provisions for which the national authorities wanted to postpone the entry into force of the provisions will therefore enter into force on 1 July 2015. Thus, the essence of the amendments, which is now ahead of us, is to re-establish the conditions before 1 July 2014 after the entry into force. Although the MSZP supports the proposals in this regard, it does not put businesses in an impossible position with a short time of preparation and does not unnecessarily increase the price of fuels, but I would also like to draw attention to the lack of legislation here at the debate stage previously called the final debate. This is not what the new Minister of Justice promised during his hearing as a candidate for ministers, so it can be said that this legislative cycle also starts badly, with a series of mistakes, and such magic tricks must be presented to the author in order to maintain the working state somehow. With regard to changes to the fuel marking system, it should be noted that all provisions will now enter into force, with the exception of the essential element of the system, the provision of which states that only fuel with marking material may be placed on the market. [[18.30]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This one, thank God, will not come into effect, since the latter will be repealed and there is no time to put it into effect. It is therefore unlikely that due to the prolonged and uncertain process of notification, it is not so clear that even for the otherwise government-like specialist, this completely unnecessary fuel marking method can be introduced at all. Ladies and gentlemen, There's only one thing I can suggest to you. The tax laws will then be introduced in a fair manner, and the Budget Council should be consulted in a meaningful way, and not here, in the framework of the Legislative Committee established by the new Parliamentary Act, any proposals which are otherwise late and poorly prepared by the profession. So I wish you more serious work in the following areas. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-23-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and ask if there is anyone else who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] They don't want me. The votes will take place in today's decisions, honourable Members. Since it is now 18.30, I ask my fellow Members to take their seats to check that their voting cards have been properly placed in the voting equipment. I ask the faction leaders to ensure Parliament's quorum. Once again, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats as soon as possible, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting equipment, so that we can continue our work. We will continue our work with a decision. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the announcement of an agreement to grant state loans to the Government of Hungary for the financing of the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary follows. The submission is T/140. No T/140/4, the report of the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs Number T/140/5 and the report of the related Committee on Budgets on the Parliament's website. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a Commission amendment, the Legislative Committee has not discussed the bill. The LMP Group T/140/6. Number T/140/3. The Commission initiated the continuation of the amendment. That's what we're voting on now. In this motion, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél is the bill 4. The Commission proposes to amend paragraph 1 of Section 1. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/140/3. Amendment No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 109 against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we must decide on the original text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/140. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 110 votes in favour, 29 against and 19 abstentions. [[Dr. Bernadett Wind will hand over a black T-shirt with PAKSTOP2-STOPAKS to Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy. Dr. Répássy Róbert: T-shirt change? Delightful, sporadic applause in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We are in the decision-making process, and I would like to ask Parliament for proper seriousness, apart from the out-of-the-show intermező. The final vote and the decision to amend the bill amending Law No I of 2004 on sport follow up. Imre Vas and Róbert Balázs Simon's own motion T/156. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/156/10. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate, T/156/11. Also available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/156/14. You can also get to know me on the website. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Jobbik and the MSZP proposed to maintain certain amendments which were not included in the draft amendment. These initiatives are set out in T/156/12. and 13 are also available on the network. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/156/6. Mr György Szilágyi, in amendment No. 1 of the bill. Paragraph 1 of the Sports Act 72. § 2 and 3 of the bill, as well as paragraphs 2 and 3 of the bill. The Committee recommended that its sections be deleted. Maintenance of the proposal excludes T/156/4. Amendment No 1. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/156/6 will maintain it at Jobbik's request. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 25 votes in favour, 129 against and 4 abstentions. T/156/4. Amendment No 2 to Amendment No 2 by László Varga Article 72/A of the Law. § 1 amendment, deletion of further paragraphs, Article 3 Article 72 B of the Act. § 3 and 4 are proposed to be deleted. [[18.40]] I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, T/156/4. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 111 against and without abstention. As Parliament has not maintained any of the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/156/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 110 votes in favour, 46 against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the bill is accepted by T/156/14. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 111 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. It is now up to us to decide on a comprehensive amendment to the bill amending certain tax laws and related other laws and the final vote. Jenő Manninger and our Fidesz colleagues, Lajos Szűcs, have a separate motion T/168. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/168/10. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate T/168/11. is also available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/168/15. You can also get to know me from the website. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the T/168/4. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. This initiative is set out in T/168/13. can be accessed on the network. That's what we'll decide first. T/168/4. In the proposed amendment, Bertalan Tóth and others initiate the amendment or withdrawal of certain provisions of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the T/168/4 at the request of the MSZP. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. The resolution house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the group of the MSZP and Fidesz proposed a separate vote on certain points of the summary amendment proposal. These initiatives are set out in T/168/12. and 14 are also available on the network. That's what we're gonna decide now. In point 7 of the summary amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee shall draw up Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 1 amends the VAT law. The motion is related to points 8, 9, 10 and 16 of the summarised amendment, so we decide on these together. In the event of the adoption of the line of proposals, the vote on point 17 of the summarised amendment, the separate vote of which was requested by Fidesz, cannot be cast. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, it accepts T/168/10. Point 7, 8, 9, 10 and 16. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points listed in the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 20 against and 4 abstentions. In point 14 of the summarised amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee adds a new provision to the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, it accepts T/168/10. Point 14 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted point 14 of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 20 against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/168/10. points 1 to 6 of the proposed amendment and points 11, 12, 13, 15 and 18. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points just listed in the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 48 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. Since the Parliament did not accept all the points of the summary amendment proposal, the House Rules of Decision 50. Pursuant to paragraph 2 (c), we must decide on the text of the bill, as amended by the approved points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the bill thus amended. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 112 votes in favour, 47 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the new notary of the Parliament will follow. Mr Tibor Pogácsás resigned from his duties as notary on 18 June 2014. Allow me to thank the notary for his work so far. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] During the five-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the Fidesz Group could propose to fill this notary. I would like to ask Mr Attila Móring to present the speaker's motion.
u2014-06-23-237	Dear Parliament, The President's proposal is as follows: 11/2014 on the election of Parliament's officials. OGY decision is amended as follows: the Parliament elects Attila Gelencsér as the notary of the Parliament to replace the previously vacant notaries of Tibor Pogácsás. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2014-06-23-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, An amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects Mr Attila Gelencsér as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Mr Attila Gelencsér with 162 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention to the notary of the Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I congratulate you with all my heart on the election of the new official of the Parliament, and I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on a presidential initiative to replace Commission officials and members. The Speaker of the House S/405. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. I would like to ask Mr Adam Mirkóczki, the notary of the Parliament, to present the speaker's motion.
u2014-06-23-239	Dear Parliament, The President's proposal is as follows: 13/2014 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. OGY Decision No 1 is amended as follows: Mr Károly Pánczél, Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Dr. Miklós Seszták, Dr. Roland Mengyi, L. Simon László, Dr. Pál Völner, on the former vacant office of the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr. István Völner, Dr. István Vitáni, Dr. Zoltán Kovács, on the former seat of the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, Dr. István Nagy, on the former seat of the Vice-President of the Committee on Justice, Mr. Sándor Farkas, in the Committee on National Inclusion, Dr. Déneszló Szászfalvi, Vice-President of the Committee on the Committee on Sustainable Development, Dr. András Aradszki, former member of the Committee on Agriculture, Mr. Mónikat Bartos, former member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr. Gámbos Dénest; former member of the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on the Committee on Regional Policy. [[18.50]] Point 1 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: instead of Dr. Gábor Zombor, Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi is elected as Chairman of the Committee, Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi instead of Dr. Ildikó Bene as Vice-President of the Committee, instead of Dr. Ildikó Kucsák as member of the Committee. Point 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Attila Szabolcs as a member of the committee instead of László Tasó to the Committee. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Zoltán Bóna as a member of the Committee for the former vacant membership of Dr. Judit Czunyiné. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption, with the exception of points 6 and 7. Point 2 of the Decision shall enter into force on 24 June 2014. Point 3 of the Decision shall enter into force on 1 July 2014.
u2014-06-23-240	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A proposal to amend the personal proposal cannot be submitted, without discussion under the house rules, with a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Speaker will accept S/405. Number 1 personal proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 160 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Congratulations on the election of the new Commission officials and members of the Parliament, and I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision, and we will take a two-minute technical break before we continue our work. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We'd like to get back to work. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because there are still two serious legislative proposals to be debated, and all those who are now leaving the Chamber because of their urgent duties, please do as quickly as possible so that all those who wish to take part in the debate can indeed participate and are not prevented. A general discussion of the draft law between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the publication of an agreement between the armed forces of Hungary and the members of the armed forces of the Federal Republic of Germany on their temporary residence in the territory of the other State until closure follows. The submission was made in T/169. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that Mr Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. I give the floor first and welcome Minister for Defence Csaba Hende, author of the item on the agenda, who has a 30-minute time limit for keeping the exposé. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-23-241	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, In recent years, military cooperation between Hungary and Germany has intensified, including the organisation of joint training and exercises, the mutual deployment of exchange officers and operational and military cooperation. One of the necessary elements of this cooperation is the temporary residence of members of the armed forces in the territory of the other State for service purposes. Both States are members of NATO, so the primary legal standard applicable to this issue is the 1999 CXVII. The Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their armed forces, the so-called NATO SOFA Convention, published by law. At the same time, German legislation requires the establishment of a military status agreement to supplement the NATO SOFA agreement, covering matters which are not or only partially regulated in the case of enhanced cooperation. The Hungarian-German military status agreement aims, above all, to supplement the provisions of the multilateral international treaty on cooperation between the Hungarian and German armed forces, which is already in force. [[19.00]] This does not regulate in sufficient detail a number of issues, in particular those arising from modern military cooperation today. The addition covers the most common forms of cooperation requiring the highest number and most military technology, such as joint training, practice, transition or humanitarian assistance and various search and rescue operations. The agreement, in accordance with the German and Hungarian constitutional requirements, refers to the public framework for entry into the territory of the other State, as well as to the possible duration and purpose of the stays. In particular, the agreement covers arms which can be imported and prohibited, as well as public health, the exercise of criminal law and environmental protection, transport and communications, as well as claims settlement issues. On this basis, I ask this House to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-242	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The representatives will be taking part in the speeches. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Balla, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech in place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-243	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, In recent years, military cooperation between Hungary and Germany has increased, and Hungarian-German military diplomatic relations in Europe seem to be extremely good. We can say that in recent years the relationship between the two NATO countries has increased further, mainly thanks to effective cooperation in the Afghanistan and Kosovo operational areas. In addition to the above, this outstanding military diplomatic relationship includes the organisation of joint training, exercises, mutual deployment of exchange officers and operational and military cooperation. One of the necessary elements of cooperation is the temporary residence of members of the armed forces in the territory of the other State for service purposes. Since the stations in the German legal order are separate from temporary residences, it was necessary to draw up a law authorising the Federal Government to conclude contracts which constitute both the legal basis for the stay and to settle a number of legal issues arising during the stay. The German Federal Government urges all its partners to sign a bilateral agreement that is often involved in exercises or training in Germany. Given that the number of practices of the Hungarian Defence Forces in Germany has increased in recent years, the German Federal Government has also increasingly urged the conclusion of bilateral agreements. It is now time for this, after a long preparation. Dear House, The agreement was proposed by the German party back in 2001, the negotiations were so long because of the changing intensity of the parties' priorities and the fundamental legal problems that arose, but it could now be at the end of the text of the text. This agreement is not only useful and necessary for the German party, but also protects our country by its criminal, public health, environmental and telecommunications standards, provided that it accepts German forces in its territory. The provisions of the agreement are balanced in all respects and apply equally to both German and Hungarian parties. On this basis, the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association supports the treaty and we ask the House to do so, and this House will also support it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Kulcsár, who is speaking from this platform. I'll wait for the congressman to wake up on the stand. Here, Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The T/169. Hungarian-German military agreement submitted to number 1 is the first bill of defence of the cycle. I think it is important to say that Jobbik has always considered the protection of the country to be of paramount importance, that it is an important area of national strategic protection, that in our programme we have dedicated a separate chapter to defence, which can be seen since 1990, and no government has been able to or would have wanted to stop it. Hungary's military forces are neither large nor technically equipped, and according to several experts, our country could not defend itself from a possible external attack until our allies came to our aid. Jobbik will do everything in its power to make this change, and will support any proposal that will promote the development of our army and the growth of our forces. However, this will not happen as long as the ratio of defence expenditure to GDP is well below the NATO average. From the point of view of military alliances, we are open to supporting proposals such as those before us, only and only if the agreement in question is in Hungary's interest and contributes to the development of the Hungarian army, but does not pose a security risk to our country, nor does it indirectly contribute to the deterioration of the stability of our region, the Central European region. Our NATO membership is, of course, and is inevitable for the conclusion of military alliances. This is why we cannot support a military alliance with another State in a civil war crisis outside NATO. I referred to the military agreement with Ukraine, to which the Minister has recently given his blessing. However, with regard to the NATO member, geographically, economically and historically close to us, we can, of course, support closer military cooperation in the event that this agreement does not contain the potential of a germ of war conflict, as well as the creation of an agreement between equal parties, and in the interests of the nation, i.e. the development of our forces in this case. One word for it: we need close military alliances, mutual cooperation with Germany, but not in this form, in our view. Dear House, Dear Minister, In recent weeks, you have said in several statements and during your ministerial hearing that Hungary wants a strong defence. We can fully agree with that, but the problem is that for four years you've been on the government, you've been the Defense Minister, and we haven't really seen the steps in this direction. In fact, until 2016, the sources of the budget chapter on defence have been frozen. There has also been significant loss of ability in the last cycle. The strong defence you desire is unimaginable without military exercises that this agreement is about, but this is just a small moment on the road to a strong army. Where there is a need for a change of perspective, above all, an increase in the ratio of military expenditure to GDP, which, unfortunately, will not happen until 2016. Turning back to the bill under discussion, the parliamentary faction of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot support the proposal before us, for two important reasons. One: from a substantive point of view, it is unacceptable to allow soldiers from a foreign state to be stationed in the territory of our country for a greater number of years. And the other is timing. We find your timing extremely unfortunate because of the international situation. I would like to explain these two aspects a little bit more. The law is not significant at first sight, since it only clarifies or complements a few technical issues which are not or only partially regulated by the NATO agreement. Yet what makes this proposal interesting is, among other things, Article 3 (2). I would like to quote from the agreement this article: "It is possible to agree on an extension of up to two years for certain members of the armed forces serving in individual liaison and advisory positions and in training. " [[19.10]] This means that, in addition to the 30 days required for the joint operations on which the agreement is based, the stationing of foreign soldiers in the territory of our country may be extended for another two years. As early as 1848 it was one of the important demands of the revolutionaries that foreign soldiers should not station in Hungary and Hungarian soldiers abroad. Jobbik also agrees with the latter, so we are also opposed to the government's position that Hungarian soldiers should serve in Afghanistan, Iran or any other foreign country. And what we find quite amazing is that, according to this bill, up to 3,000 foreign soldiers could stay in our country for up to two years. This is completely unacceptable to Jobbik and raises the question of why this point should be included in an agreement to prepare for joint exercises. But let's look at the other factor that concerns us, the timing. Due to Hungary's geographical situation, which lies in the neighbourhood of Ukraine, where the known regrettable conditions prevail, Hungary needs to be very careful about and relate to such and similar military agreements. And before the Minister once again warns me that I dared to speak about the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, he has repeatedly asked me not to mention the issue in the last two weeks, so let me inform you that Parliament is actually on the ground. In the church of the nation, we need to discuss the most important matters of Hungary, the important issues concerning Hungary, in addition to legislation. Hungarian society is very interested in the Ukrainian crisis, the security of our country and our region, especially in the light of the fact that our national brothers live in a country affected by war. Therefore, as a Member of Parliament, I will, and I would like to, deal with the subject, of course, with responsibility and, in no case, with the intention of quoting your word and using your voice: I will involve Hungary in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, As you have repeatedly said, Hungary is interested in a peaceful solution to the Russian-Ukrainian conflict. The Jobbik agrees with that. The crisis must be resolved peacefully, and the Hungarian government, as a governing body for the neighbouring state of Ukraine, must therefore do everything and not go into any adventure policy. It is not right to openly stand up for either party with military agreements, in addition to peaceful conflict resolution, the interests of Hungarians in Hungary and beyond the borders of Trianon, especially in Transcarpathia. Taking these into account in the crisis situation in Eastern Ukraine today, it does not serve the interests of our country, the stability and security of the region, nor the peaceful solution to the crisis, by the government's defence policy, i.e. the support for Ukrainian inclusion in the military treaty of the V4 countries, nor the inclusion in a military treaty that we have negotiated, as referred to in Article 3 (2). Together, these are not good messages for the world, for Russia or for the Hungarian people who want peace. Dear House, In addition, with the date of entry into force of the termination of the agreement, as laid down in Article 11 (3) of the proposal, I cannot and cannot agree with it. This indicates that the termination shall take effect one year after receipt of the declaration. We consider this time to be a long time, it would be enough 90 days, as that is enough time for the Contracting Parties to take every step to eliminate the terms of the agreement, to withdraw their troops from the country in question. In conclusion, Jobbik does not support this form of the bill. Since amendments cannot be made by its representatives, and only formal spelling errors can be corrected by the rapporteur, we ask the Minister to withdraw the bill, to conclude a new agreement with Germany, which we consider to be of concern. We consider the joint exercises to be a forward-looking initiative with another NATO Member State, in the interests of our country, but such an agreement should not include the possibility of foreign soldiers stationing for years in the territory of our country, especially in a crisis situation in a neighbouring country. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask the factions that have not set up the lead speaker so far and so do not speak, whether they wish to take part in the debate at the lead speaker level. [[No signal.]] I don't see any sign-ups, so we're at the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is therefore closed. I will ask Minister Csaba Hende if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2014-06-23-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thank you for the support that Member Mihály Balla has provided. I am obliged to respond to the words of my fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár. Hungary has neither concluded nor intends to conclude a military agreement with Ukraine. As I have already had the opportunity to talk about, Ukraine expressed its intention years ago not to conclude a treaty or an agreement with us, but to contribute with certain military capabilities to the functioning of the Joint V4 Task Force serving on standby in the first half of 2016. Your specific objection to the Member, I believe, is based on error. Once again, I would like to review Article 3 (1) about practices, typical stationing and residence. It contains the rule that up to 3,000 soldiers - and we have to understand it here - may stay for a period of not more than 30 days. So we're not talking about years of stationing. Paragraph 2 may be agreed on a stay of up to 2 years for individual liaison and advisory posts of the armed forces and for each member of the training team. This is therefore about liaison officers delegated to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, not the stationing of team forces, or, let's say, the residence of one or two officers participating in a staff course in Hungary or even Germany. So there was a mix-up here, and I was forced to put it right. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-248	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We now have a joint debate on the proposal to amend certain land laws in an exceptional procedure. The submission was made in T/357. T/357/2 of the Legislative Committee's summary proposal and its summary report. and T/357/3. You may have found it on the website. The house rules are 63. According to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, the timeframes for the debate are as follows: the national timeframe is 15 minutes, the government's timeframe is also 15 minutes, the rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee - if there are several rapporteurs, if there are one, even one - are 15 minutes overall, the time frame for each political group is 30-30 minutes, and the time frame for independent representatives is 8 minutes, and the national rejoinder is 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is open. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the rapporteur on the agenda, as I said, in a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-249	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted opens six agricultural laws. Four of these propose technically technical amendments, which I propose in cases where it has become apparent that the norm necessary for further implementation needs to be clarified. [[19.20]] First, I initiated an amendment to the 92 - year law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. Here, it is well known that the government has been authorised to create a central directory, and for this technical implementation, I propose data clarification between municipalities, notaries and public administration bodies, so that this register is clear, and on this basis the public administration bodies can obtain and exchange accurate data. In the following, I propose practically a mandate to the Law of 97 on the Transformation and Protection of the Built Environment, in which the Government will be entitled to amend the Government Decree. Unfortunately, in the case of one of the legislations, the delegation clause has been omitted, so the government cannot amend a regulation in some cases. In the next section, I propose a bill of 95 on authentic documents, public archives and the protection of private archives, in which I will clarify some sections to facilitate data traffic between the archives and the real estate authority; the amendment proposal is also of a technical nature. Perhaps the most important - at least this is how I dare to assess it - is the legislative amendment that I propose to make to the '97 Law on Real Estate Recording, as this is the consequence of the Land Traffic Act adopted in 2013. It is well known that in this land traffic law, we proposed that the right to farm land can only be initiated and registered for direct branch relatives. But we know that there are certain areas that were or are actually tenants of, but by registering and naming the beneficial right for a long period of time, these fields have been rendered unfit for residents, while they may be prevented by the order of pre-emption and pre-profit lease listed by the law. Therefore, in the Land Traffic Act 2013, we have established the registration of the general right of use for these properties, and now technically I propose that the real estate registration bodies - these are named the land offices - collect all entries where they see a registration of beneficial rights on these property pages, call for the owner of the land and the right holder of the beneficial right for a certain period of time to justify a direct branch kinship, as provided for in the Land Traffic Act. If this confirmation is not received within a certain period of time, the determining authority - this land office - will cancel all beneficial rights which have not been confirmed that they are direct relatives or that they have not declared themselves at all on the basis of the request. One of the amendments to the same real estate registration law will allow us to ask any owner who owns land, owns property, but these are not registered in a district office or not in a county, but have land ownership in several parts of the country, thus allowing the registration of all property rights in Hungary to be obtained from an immediate data register. It is well known that in the Land Traffic Act, we have limited the upper limit of the land grabbing of natural persons to 300 hectares - to mention this - for example, it will be immediately checked whether they are owned by law or if, when buying land, they do not exceed the 300 ha acquisition limit prohibited by the law. The following legislation concerns the National Earth Fund, in which a section will be amended: I will amend the appointment practice of the members and president of the National Land Fund. My proposal is that the current Minister for Agriculture may propose not only the appointment of the President of the Council for Property Policy but also the proposal for all members of the Council for Property Policy. This was discussed at the committee meeting. My fellow Jobbikos protested why the composition of the Government Council should not be wider, and why only the current Minister of Agriculture can propose a name. There I drew attention - and I would like to do so here too - to the fact that it is clear to the Government that the current Minister of Agriculture is responsible for land affairs, land policy and, as a result, for all the matters behind it. I think it is right that the current Minister of Agriculture also has full responsibility for the appointment of the Council of Property Policy, because it may not be right that a minister is fully responsible to the government in relation to the aforementioned land and property policy matters, but there is a Council of Property Policy in the composition of which he cannot enforce his vision, but this Council of Property Policy can give him opinions, guidance and all that, and yet the responsibility for any land and property policy matters is the responsibility of the current Minister. With this proposal, we will put the weight on the shoulders of the current Minister of Agriculture to set up a Council for Property Policy on his own proposal once this law is adopted, in which he will take full responsibility for land and property policy before the government. The sixth open legislative section is about surveying and mapping activities. Here, too, I am proposing only a technical amendment. I propose the necessary clarifications for the establishment of a regulation governing the functioning of the standing committees that exist there. I ask Parliament to support these laws on land. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-23-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-23-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill amending six pieces of legislation is, on the one hand, to supplement existing legislation in order to ensure that the legal provisions are fully and enforceable and, on the other hand, to implement text-pointing and to facilitate uniform application of the law. Among the laws to be amended, the 1997 CXLI on the Real Estate Register. supplementing the law - this bill 9. I would like to point out first of all that. The 2013 CXXII on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land adopted last December. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. On the basis of the Law, on 1 May 2014, the right to enjoy the right of use and the right of use which existed on 30 April 2014, whether for an indefinite period or after 30 April 2014, was terminated by virtue of the law, as well as for a fixed period, concluded by a contract between non-close relatives. In the context of the legislative abolition of these rights in rem, it is essential to point out that, in practice, these rights have in many cases been established by the parties in order to circumvent the limitations of the acquisition of land. A rule of law cannot allow honest, law-abiding citizens to be disadvantaged against those who find loopholes. For this reason, all beneficial rights in respect of land were abolished as of 1 May 2014 for the benefit of a non-close relative. The regulation does not discriminate between Hungarian citizens and non-Hungarian citizens, it applies uniformly to everyone, and the provision does not have retroactive effect, because, for the future, it has abolished this beneficial right with a transitional period of more than four months from the date of entry into force of the relevant provision, and the financial advantage previously resulting from the recovery of the land's benefits cannot be recovered. The amendment to the Real Estate Register Act aims to ensure that the right of use and the right of use have already ceased on 1 May 2014 are removed from the real estate register and its procedural rules are included in the proposal. [[19.30]] It is important to point out that the real estate register cannot be consulted to determine whether there is a close relationship between the registered owner and the beneficial owner, so that the cancellation of the beneficial right by the land office cannot be automated. At the same time, the submission of an application for the cancellation of the right of use cannot be expected from the registered holder who has abused the establishment of that right. Thus, the rights abolished by the law would be misleadingly contained in the public register, not in the same legal state as in the actual legal state. The proposal is therefore based on a statement principle, i.e. on the request of the Land Office, the right to the right of the natural person to benefit must state on a form concerning the existence of a close relative relationship between him and the beneficial right founding owner of the property on which the registration is based. If, on the basis of the declaration, there is no close family relationship, or if the holder does not make a declaration by the time limit specified in the proposal, the registered right of right to property registration shall be removed from the register of property by its own initiative. In addition, the right to benefit from the real estate register for the benefit of a legal person on 30 April 2014 should also be deleted from its own initiative, since it is not possible to have a close family relationship. Under this regulation, the right of use and the right to use, registered in more than 225 thousand parts of the land, will be reviewed and the rights abolished by the law will also be deleted from the real estate register by the end of the year. Regarding the amendment tabled by MEP Zoltán Magyar, which would leave the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. I would like to reassure my fellow opposition Members. The National Land Fund Act states that over a state-owned property which does not contain only a plot of land belonging to the National Land Fund, ownership rights are exercised by the Minister responsible for Land Affairs with the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets. This joint exercise is carried out through the National Land Fund Management Organisation and the Hungarian National Asset Management Private Limited Company, determined according to some legal arrangements: jointly or in cooperation with each other or independently with the interests of the other party. The detailed rules for the exercise of common ownership rights are governed by a separate government regulation. The exercise of common ownership rights is not related to the composition of, and the appointed members of, the Board of Governors, which is essentially responsible for the adoption of strategic decisions. The Act on the National Earth Fund contains the tasks and responsibilities of the Government Council. §2 of the Act states that the Council, together with MNV Zrt., will decide on how to exploit the properties under common ownership, in accordance with the government decree issued for the implementation of the law. The provisions on the exercise of common ownership rights are not affected by the bill and the regulation remains unchanged. This is why the Member's concern about large-scale land transactions is unfounded, and because of the existing legislation, it is also unjustified that the person nominated by the Minister for the Surveillance of State Property should be a permanent member of the Council. The reason for the amendment of the four additional laws covered by the bill is to remedy certain shortcomings and additional provisions to prepare for the implementation of legal requirements. Dear Parliament, In order to achieve our public interest objectives in relation to our land assets, I propose that the Parliament adopt the bill that my fellow Member Sándor Font enumerates, which is necessary for the completeness and enforceability of the legislation on land law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-23-252	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The report of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will now be presented within a total of 15 minutes, so that, in accordance with house rules, a minimum period of 7 minutes is provided for the expression of the minority opinion. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur for the Legislative Committee is Mr Imre Vas. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2014-06-23-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/357. The bill on the amendment of certain land laws was discussed by the Legislative Committee. At the committee meeting, there was no constitutional concern about the motion submitted. Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós's proposal was not supported by the committee in line with the position of the rapporteur and the government. In the absence of an amendment in support of what has been said, the Legislative Committee did not submit a summary amendment and submitted the summary report in favour of 20 yes and 13 no. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-23-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have a presentation of the minority opinion, within a maximum time frame of 7 minutes, which is presented by Member Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I will not use the time frame, since it was a proposal for an amendment, the only amendment tabled at the committee meeting. My fellow Member, Mr Font, mentioned this in the same way as my fellow Member Vas and Secretary of State István Nagy spoke about this point. I said at the committee meeting that the definition of the composition of the Council for Property Policy and the change in this system, which is that only the Minister of Agriculture can delegate now, and if this amendment is adopted, only the Minister of Agriculture can delegate or appoint members, this is indicated for consideration. By the way, I understand the reasoning on ministerial responsibility from my fellow Member, Mr Font, on the one hand, but I do not think that it would be empty if the current system remained, that the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets and the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities could also propose members to the Council on Property Policy. I believe that the Minister's responsibility has existed so far, and I am not aware of a case where this would have been a problem. Of course, this may be a difference in approach, but we believe that the detailed reasoned amendment proposed by my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar was aimed at keeping this system, and in fact this was discussed and explained in committee from the point of view of pró and versus argument. Unfortunately, this has been voted off, but it is my duty to say this before the Parliament, and I ask Parliament to proceed accordingly. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-23-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In doing so, the political groups have a 30-30-minute timeframe and the independent Members have an overall 8-minute timeframe. First, the speech will take place in 15-15 minutes, between which a two-minute speech is not possible in accordance with house rules. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr István Horváth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The T/357 ahead. The purpose of this motion is to amend the laws on the subject of land. The bill contains the amendment of six Land Laws on current issues, which are both linked to the 2013 CXXII Act on the Traffic in Lands of Agriculture and Forestry. By its entry into force on 1 May 2014 and, on the other hand, by means of minor corrections in the application of the law. CCXX of 2013 on the general rules for the interoperability of state and municipal registers. According to law, the government has to create a central title register. In this connection, the first proposal is the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses. The amendment of the Act regulates the preliminary steps necessary to establish the title register. Point 2 of the proposal: the 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. The amendment to the Act is justified by its integration into the legislative environment. [[19.40]] Proposal 3: LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Laws are amended to clarify the different interpretations of legislation of the Land and Remote Sensing Archives and Land Administrations and thus to provide land office data to the Archives. Proposal 4 concerns the 1997 CXLI on the real estate register. amends the law in several places. It clarifies the scope of facts that can be recorded in the real estate register, in addition to the wording that facilitates interpretation of legislation. It empowers agricultural administrations to consult all property of the owner from the real estate register in the procedure for the official authorisation of the acquisition of ownership. It ensures access to real estate registration data from the property administrator acting in the company's asset settlement process and from the financial guardian acting in the local government's debt settlement process. It defines the 2013 CXXII on the turnover of agricultural and forestry land. CCXII of 2013 on certain provisions and transitional arrangements related to the Law. the rules for the removal from the real estate register of beneficial property rights between non-direct relatives which have been abolished by law. Proposal 5: the 2010 LXXVIII on the National Earth Fund. The amendment of Law empowers the Minister responsible for agricultural policy to select and appoint members of the NFA Estate Policy Council. Proposal 6: XLVI 2012 on surveying and mapping activities. The amendment of Law 3 which contains the necessary clarification for the establishment of a regulation governing the functioning of the Standing Committee on the Establishment and Operation of the National Spatial Data Infrastructure. Mr President, Dear House, To sum up, the content of its own motion, we can conclude that the six amendments listed above facilitate the application of land laws. I would ask this House to support the motion of our fellow Member, Mr Font, as this makes the amendment of the laws listed above much more flexible and much more precise. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-23-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Zsolt Legény. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Our fellow Member Sándor Font's bill on the amendment of certain laws on land before us continues, as promised by Viktor Orbán, the bad traditions that we could get used to in the previous term. The governing party repeatedly abuses its power and, in the form of a motion from its individual representatives, talks with exceptional urgency on important issues that the government should have resolved a long time ago. My fellow Member does not therefore initiate, but simply executes the will of Viktor Orbán, so that he not only avoids mandatory administrative and social consultations, but it becomes even more questionable whether Fidesz needs a well-functioning agricultural wallet, because, in addition to the fact that Minister Sándor Fazekas' powers have been significantly reduced, it now seems that he can no longer participate in legislation. If it were not so, we would not be able to find any errors and legal uncertainty that we can see in Mr Font's proposal. I believe that despite good initiatives, such as the attempt to eliminate fictitious addresses, this proposal is crawling with problems. First of all, in the press, it was wrong to say that Congressman is initiating an amendment to the land law: this proposal has as much to do with the land law as with the pears of the apple. In the latter case, both are fruit, and in the former case, we see that the land law is and will be a failed law. Mr. Congressman and Fidesz, instead of initiating the creation of a law on the economy and integration guaranteeing the functioning of a bad land law, have now tabled a proposal referring to the land law, which is trying to regulate quite a lot of other legislation, starting from public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives, which is also wrong. Our position is well known that the Act on the Traffic in Lands of Agriculture and Forestry, adopted in scandalous circumstances, devalues the assets of nearly two million small owners and endangers many jobs. Instead of addressing the problems, Mr Font Sándor will only strengthen the precarious situation, and this is a serious threat to domestic agricultural production, livestock production and the Hungarian food industry. There are a number of public-law problems that we have not yet seen a solution to. All I have to do is mention that the proposal submitted is affected by Article 17 of the Real Estate Registration Act. Paragraph (1) of Article 2 (1) of the Act, which currently contains 28 points in the current text, is the fact that a property can be recorded in the real estate register. This list is now extended by four points, i.e. 32 points out of 28 points. It seems that in the course of the preparation, the Member was not thorough enough, since the bill is not affected by the provisions of Article 17 of the said Act. It is not clear whether the non-registration of the facts set out in the above 32 points does not affect the effects relating to those facts. For example, it is not clear what will happen, for example, when a new paragraph 29 has been added to ordering the lodging of a contract for the transfer of land ownership to the real estate register, or what the legal consequences will be if the fact that the land transfer contract is not entered in the real estate register is not entered in the real estate register. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We maintain our previous opinion, this is a bad land law, but we do need to deal with uncertainty and the legal problems of the new system that entered into force on 1 May 2014. We do not dispute this aim, but the problems cannot be solved by poorly prepared legislation, so in this form we cannot support the proposal in the absence of appropriate amendments and appropriate answers to our questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-23-260	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik will not be able to support this proposal, as I said before through the press, because we have more problems with this proposal. On the one hand, I would like to start by saying that the exceptional urgency in this case is not entirely justified to me. Although this draft and, above all, this registration through the land offices, I think it should have been taken a long time ago, but I think there would have been time for us to discuss this in a normal way, since it cannot be ignored that it is certain in the Committee on Agriculture that it would have received another substantive amendment other than the one I have just tabled. And I think that these debates are often not useless at all, and they can actually add substance to a proposal. I also regret that, once we have touched the earth traffic law, why have we not opened up other substantive parts, as we can already see the errors in the application of the earth traffic law, which we Jobbikos have already drawn attention to in the debate on it. It would have been good if we had already touched this law, then a decree setting up land committees would have arrived, and we would have finally known how long Fidesz would have wanted to waste time and how long it would have wanted to practice through its own home organization, the Agricultural Chamber, the permissions that were previously intended for the land committees. There have been few forward-looking steps to this land traffic law, but for example, we, Jobbiks, have considered it to be so, and we hold it to this day, because under whatever circumstances these land committees will be finalized, this institution can help local farmers to have a more serious say in land changes in the area. My concerns about the Council for Property Policy have now been analysed in detail by the speakers before me, so I would not go along with it, and I will continue to insist that this amendment is reasonable and certainly useful, because it would be good if not only the Minister for Agriculture could speak into the composition of the Council for Property Policy, but not just the areas in which he is responsible. [[19.50]] And if the argument made by Mr President that the responsibility would thus be borne by the minister in one person, then the fact that he has seen the last cycle of land leases is not a point, and they have not been investigated and overruled because he was not only responsible for the story, so there is no such thing. I believe that you will continue to copy these cases in the same way, and that there will be absolutely no consequences of being held accountable in this regard of whether or not the members will now be appointed by only one minister to the Government Council. It would have been good if the land traffic law had been amended in such a way as to open chapters in which we could have made substantial changes, such as how there would be job creation in rural areas, because it is already clear that this has not been brought about by your earth traffic law at all. I would also be interested to know if, when they collect this information, they will live with it. I look forward to it - because it is clear that this will be a great deal of information, and indeed information on which I think it will be possible to base substantively on future legislative amendments - whether they will continue to use this information as they have done so far. So, in a highly selective way, and when the interests of people close to your circle would be harmed by that information, then we will certainly not use it, even in time, to leak the data that is important to them, or will they really establish rules that can be observed for everyone in general? I am thinking here that I think that the interests in agriculture that you have helped in recent decades, whether it be agricultural development aid, state land or any means that you can provide them from this Parliament, these interests are certainly prepared for this legislative amendment and have distributed their own estates in respect of the maximums of your estates. It would be good to find a solution to this - let us be honest - legal loophole, and it would not be enough for Csányi, Leistinger, Nyerges, or Lőrinc Mészáros to write down, say, 1,200 or 1,800 hectares of his own property, but it would be possible to count and catch up with him here, whether it is property or rent. I would also like to know whether this registration, the certificate that will be requested will entail costs for citizens and, if it does, how this will happen and what extent it will be, because it is apparent that last year that the other type of but similar costs for some property owners have caused quite a lot of outrage. I am curious to see if there may be similar costs here, because I think that in the case of people with smaller holdings this may be unduly large. I would also be interested in the legal consequences of those who fail to comply, or who may give false proof - although we hope that there will not be a large number of such examples, but it would also be good to clarify what legal consequences this may have. So, overall, these were the most important reasons why Jobbik would not be able to support this draft. However, I have to say here that there are many forward-looking steps, so we strongly support that the state is aware of who, when, where, what areas it has, we only hope that the government will actually be able to use this information and will use it for the right purposes, and that it will complete this kind of estate policy, which, unfortunately, has enriched us with extremely sad experiences over the last four years. And at the end of all this, the result would be that we will be able to live in a country where the state is aware of these data so that it can enforce the legislation in force with everyone, it does not favor anyone, and it would not be working to build a close-up oligarchic system of government, but would really help Hungarian family farmers living on the ground, or promote job creation in rural areas. That is what we hope for and hope for, but unfortunately, the experience of the past periods tells me that this amendment will not only be good for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, please.
u2014-06-23-263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at this proposal in detail, and I stand here with very mixed feelings, because there are some points in it that could be accepted, but of course there are some things that cannot be accepted. I'm gonna run through all this. As far as legislation on the registration of citizens' personal data and address is concerned, the proposal could be supported. The question is whether there is a local capacity for this work, so whether the consequences of this work have been assessed, because it can create serious work. There is also no particular reason for our faction to vote against this when amending the law on the transformation and protection of the built environment if we do not have problems in principle. Similarly, amendments to the law on public documents and public archives are not particularly problematic. With regard to the amendment of the real estate law, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is consistently about the statement of all land-owners' properties in the proposal, which means that they can also ask for someone's non-farm real estate, which I do not think can be the legislator's or the object of the amendment, so they should probably only think of land-based properties here. In the same way, there are some other things that are acceptable, but I still say that I thought it was all a mess because of a lot of things. All in all, there's an earthquake. The land moratorium is over. We got the earthquake, the farmer's coming in, what are you doing? He pulls the Aunt's picture out of the ground and starts nailing it to the wall as the most important thing. A week ago, we were here to amend the land law, which should have treated how this legislation should not serve the additional concentration of land. We should have dealt with how not to help the neighbours, the joint co-owners - who, in the case of the undivided common, can still buy land without any suspension of about 1.5 million hectares and thus increase the size of the main estates - to get land. This is what the Fidesz Group has been sweeping! He said it wasn't important. Instead, there is a little salad weld, which, in the words of Mr Burány, is entirely such an avatar presentation, which comes in as an individual representative's motion when obviously trying to cover omissions and errors. This is a serious problem in many respects. For me, the biggest problem of the entire proposal is that it wants to place the entire Government Policy Council under the jurisdiction of the leaders of the Ministry of Agriculture and thus the right to dispose of the Hungarian state-owned agricultural land. To be honest, I would also like to expect a significantly greater opposition from my fellow opposition Members, as it is a matter of magnitude that, according to the NFA's statement, the right to provide land of HUF 378 billion is to be given to a body appointed by a minister without any impact on it. Unlike many European countries, there is no comprehensive strategy in this country on how to use state wealth and public land. So no one has ever said in a law, strategy, framework strategy on how to exploit public land, this vast land fortune. Is it really the best idea to give it to a bunch of dudes without applying? Or is it a good idea to take it and submit it to other new Green Baron buddies by tender? Or does anyone think about creating state economies, because then it can be privatized? So there is no strategy for how the land is used by the country. It wasn't born. Compared to this, the one council who would have the power to think about such matters, rather than open up to the nation with a strategic thinking about what to do with the state's wealth, does not try to involve the factions and seek national consistency, does not involve civil experts and representatives of the agricultural sector, but narrows it down. He says that a minister, the one minister, should appoint a few people who have over this state wealth worth HUF 378 billion and create a strategy for how to exploit it. From MSZP lines, we talked about the weight of the agricultural portfolio. I don't know, it seems to me like we're witnessing a fideous test of who has more resources, who has what power. Because, in fact, the transfer of the right to dispose of the entire state land to the management of the agricultural portfolio and to say that the Government Policy Council should be set up in such a way that it can fully decide on this strategic and national issue, I think it is quite irresponsible. [[20.00]] Under the NFA Act, this council prepares a medium-term strategy based on land-ownership policy guidelines for the exploitation of the continents of the National Land Fund, while deciding on matters relating to the acquisition of land-use or land-use rights of HUF 100 million or one hundred hectares for the benefit of the State. So we want to give all the power over this property to a limited body that we have no idea who its members will be and on what basis they will be selected. I think that's the most important problem of this salad proposal. In all other cases, with a very small explanation, it can be said that it could be supported, although it would in principle also arise why it comes as an individual motion, why it should be discussed in an exceptional procedure, when there are much more strategic problems with the law. Instead, in a salad presentation, we see tiny welds. These are not accepted on our part because there has been no dialogue about this, we have not reviewed the consequences, and now, just as in the land law itself, there are a lot of little errors and related legislation, and this is happening a little bit to correct, it will happen again. Typical example of what I said about landowners' real estate. So if you don't have land, you can't question your residential property, if you have land, you can also ask your residential property. That's what this proposal says. In practice, landowners are required to provide more data than those who do not have agricultural land, creating a social imbalance, since the state is not able to look at the wealth of its citizens in the same way. Overall, without questioning the potential validity of small proposals, but questioning the strategic decision that the Member, knowing the problem of the countryside, knew the land situation, still considered this to be the most important, it will therefore be very, very difficult to accept and accept that this is what we have to deal with. I obviously appreciate Mr Font Sándor, and I think his social support is high on the ground, since he has been a Member for so long, but I cannot believe that someone wakes up in his bed in the morning with a salad law, and that these points should be amended, and that is to say, the Government Council should be transformed. Therefore, I think that the faction will not be able to support this amendment, and we will try by every means to draw attention to the fact that society is aware that it wants to give all over state land the right of provision to a narrow body of the Hungarian government or the majority of Parliament, which will be appointed only by the Minister responsible for agriculture. We think it's a very big concern, we think it's a big problem and a very big risk to state wealth. There has been a problem with such risks before, and it would be very, very good if this did not happen. That is why I call for your understanding and our opinion to be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Under house rules, it would now be possible for the first independent Member to speak in eight minutes if he were in the Chamber. It would be possible now to make two-minute speeches if there were a candidate, but there is no one, so we will continue with the regular speeches. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before I go to data protection aspects and comments on the content, allow me to think about the course of the debate, the proposal itself and the conditions under which it is to be submitted. I think that when the government talked about reducing the number of Parliaments to 200 people so that it would work professionally, voters did not think that one of the 133 representatives of the governing side would be involved in the debate of such proposals, the only Member whose presence is unfortunately mandatory, so that he cannot go because he is the nationalist. I mean, once again, apart from the author, there is no one present to take part in the debate on the side of the governing parties as a Member of Parliament. On behalf of the representatives of the KDNP, there is not a single Member in the Chamber who would comment on the debate. I don't think that's right. It is okay that, in the late-night debate, during the debate of the special laws, not everyone is here in Parliament, but only those politicians who know the subject, but I do not think that the entire Fidesz and KDNP fraction has only one representative who understands land affairs and who is interested in land affairs. I don't think that's right. I understand that the agricultural committee, for example, has significantly more Fidesz-KDNP members, certainly more than one. That's part of my comment. The other thing that Mr Sallai also referred to is that it is again about what, not only in the past four years or in this session in several cases, but also today, at the hearing of another bill, that it is actually about a government referral that has been given to at least a competent Member in the present case - and I value it as a positive - who can read not only the presentation of his paper without being able to understand anything, but can actually formulate his own ideas on this subject, because he has been a policyr in this area for a long time. But that does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that this is indeed a motion by individual representatives of Mr Font. He's got this, he's got it signed, and now he's representing him here in Parliament. I am sorry to say this, but I think that, on the basis of Mr Sallai's speech and reading the bill, it is quite clear and clear. It can only be concluded from the fact that the entry into force would be practically the day after the adoption, and from the day after the adoption, the government regulation which will provide for the rules of procedure for monitoring should also enter into force. It is difficult to imagine, my fellow Members, if it is not a covert government referral, that in a few hours, after a few hours, the Parliament will adopt this law, and the government will already be able to draft this regulation. This is not the case, obviously, but it is the fact that this regulation is already being prepared by the government, as this bill was drafted, it was submitted by a Member, and it will be adopted by the government in the form of a government decree, but the origins of the two are actually the same. Ladies and gentlemen, who are present in this Chamber not too many, I must say that this is not just a formal obstacle on my part, but in the same way as in the case of the Sports Act, this is a very serious substantive problem. We are also faced here - and I am now going to look at the content - with the submission of this law by circumventing the provisions of the legislative law, by the fact that it was an individual motion by its representatives and, for example, by not asking the opinion and position of the President of the Data Protection Authority. If it had been submitted by the Government, it would have been mandatory to consult the President of the Data Protection Authority, in addition to requiring other similar consultations. Obviously, they have now been able to avoid this by submitting the bill, the draft law, as a motion for its own representatives. But if you look at the problem of this sport law, the Legislative Commission meeting was all about the proposals of the President of the Data Protection Authority, and they tried to include his criticism with an amendment proposal, so it is likely that there will be similar problems even after the adoption of this law. Anyway, if I don't want to be a little bit mean, at least I'm saying there could be problems like this. It would therefore have been good for the President of the Data Protection Authority to have at least the Member, if he had already taken this government referral in his name, asked for his opinion before submitting this legislation. [[20.10]] For example, I would like to know why, for me, the bill does not require the notary to verify the register of companies under the Social Register Act. It is not clear what electronic data file the central body provides to the notary carrying out the inspection. I would like you to answer that in the closing section. The question of how data is added to the address register after verification remains unanswered. Because it does not seem to be an appropriate data management rule that the notary, after verification, will refer the data back to the central body, which is now the subject of this proposal. How do you imagine, honourable Member, from a data management point of view, the transfer of addresses checked by the notary to the future register? I would ask you to respond to this debate, after we welcome the fact that the address checks are finally being carried out, because in many cases we have also noticed that the address of the citizens declared is not a real address. The question is, however, what exactly does this have to do with land affairs. That is why we must call the legislation before us a salad law. Finally, it remains a question for me to answer why we should discuss this in such an exceptional procedural order. First of all, by reading this law, I do not feel that its final vote should take place in such an urgent manner. If that is the case, my fellow Members, then of course I accept and understand that the Prime Minister must go to the World Cup, and this will affect the life of the Hungarian Parliament, but perhaps we could have negotiated this law without his presence. Our group is ready to take part in the parliamentary session anytime in the summer, ready to be here after 4 July, 5 July, to discuss this and similar proposals. In other words, there would have been no reason for you to stop sitting in Parliament until September after 4 July to accept this proposal in this way. I think it would have been right for you to think that this is really urgent for some reason, although I would like to hear a few sentences about why, so if this is so urgent, why not double or triple Parliament's extraordinary sittings. We are happy to be available, I say once again that this House will meet during the summer, and we will be able to participate in the committee, we promise. So with the rules of procedure, once again, this is my last question to the rapporteur, to justify, please, why in this procedural order we must now do away with this law and its adoption in a few days. Why do we have to adopt the law with a final vote in such a way that we do not give the President of the Data Protection Authority a chance to give an opinion on the changes that have been made in this regard, and perhaps similar dilemmas that I have now recorded or formulated beyond them? Overall, therefore, my fellow Members, neither the way in which this law is negotiated, nor the form in which it is submitted, nor the content of it, makes it possible for our faction to support it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-23-266	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate... [[For signal:]] Congressman, I'll give you the floor, but when I'm on lockdown, I won't say another word. This is Congressman Sallai Benedek for a two-minute comment.
u2014-06-23-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My apologies, I thought that the author might answer a few questions, and then clarification could still be made. But it looks like we're only looking for closure. There are a lot of questions, aren't there? Since we are already looking at a proposal to amend the verification of the clarification of the record of personal data, there are also a lot of other things that have not been found in this proposal. We clearly know for sure that the land registry has died in many cases, contains data of those moved, and we do not know what will happen to them from this presentation. In each case, do the notaries automatically initiate a replacement succession procedure? Or what do they do with the data they have when it turns out that it may not be not just a match, but, let's just say, it's not in the data records. The same question arises, not only why this is more important now. I'm sorry, I'm learning this job, so I can see how you can ask questions here. I also wonder if it is possible to ask why this is more important than, say, discussing the system of pre-emptive rights. Why is this more important now than the issue of the creation of local land committees, which are typically such as to be burning at the moment in earth traffic? Instead, I have these. What I wanted to say was that it is certainly not possible to ignore the transformation of the Government Council here. At the moment, there has been surveillance that has produced worrying results, and we must certainly use an amendment motion in this direction. I would ask Mr Font to explain in his reasoning that what you had to say in the introduction has, in practice, only clarified the powers of the Minister of Agriculture, but what will happen to all the other co-ministers who have delegated so far [[The president's ringing the bell.]] ..........................................................................................................................................
u2014-06-23-268	Finish your sentence, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-269	.......................................................................................................................................... How is it possible to exclude their government opinion? Or would you not see the possibility for the Government Policy Council to be enlarged rather than reduced. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-270	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy continues. Here you go.
u2014-06-23-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't be long. I would like to ask one thing that Fidesz does not play in the debate of any similar bill, as it does in the debate, that only and only during the debate will the present Member or national state state his position, because, I think, this is not a fair procedure. It's not fair. You, together with KDNP, have 55 minutes to participate in this debate. In addition, there is also the government's ability to react and to react. Dear Parliament, Every time I do this, I'm going to say this so many times, of course, in case they ever hear it, or in case the voters ever notice what you're doing in Parliament. It is not fair to speak only to a debate when the opposition is no longer able to respond to your speech. I think a debate is a debate if we can conflict our position. We have both heard the introductions, opinions and the national exposé of the representative of the government. I think that we have said our speeches in the light of this. I believe it is fair for you to answer our arguments and suggestions in a way that gives you time to ask further questions and comment, if necessary. So once again, I ask you not to abuse but to use your parliamentary powers. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-23-272	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to tell Mr Gergely Bárándy that according to the house rules, the representative of the government can speak at any time, but in the case of a time-frame debate, his time will be deducted from the time of the governing parties. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You had 55 minutes.]] So not in addition, but within the time frame, but it's just a little clarification. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was wrong, they had 55 minutes together.]] Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Font Sándor, as rapporteur, if he wishes to reply within a 10-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-273	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP started, the MSZP fraction finished the comments. Well, I would like to say that I have argued a lot with Zoltán Gőgös since he became a Member of Parliament since 2002. We've had consensual and dissenting debates. But at least Zoltán Gőgös knew about land affairs and the issues governing land and agriculture. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was talking about data protection.]] What my fellow Member Zsolt Legény said as a keynote speaker, you will analyse again what the substance of this was. [[20.20]] I don't want to answer political mumbo jumbo here, and I don't want to say that he read from the newspaper, from the media, that it will be an amendment to the land law, and what a horror it will be, he will read it, and in the meantime there will be no mention of any amendment of the land law, and he will be bitter about it. As regards my colleague Gergely Bárándy's speech, I also do not wish to address political, theoretical and moral issues here. One thing I note is that what is the political elite and the content of fairness, it is not he and you who will determine in the Hungarian Parliament when I may want to answer the questions you have asked as a national, but in any case I will do so in accordance with the house rules, I am quite certain of that. However, allow me to reflect on a matter of substance, namely the role of notaries and the issue of clarifying the title. First, let us go back to the fact that the interop law empowers the government and obliges it to create a central title register. This is where the basic problem begins. Since the government wants to do this with honor, it wants to clarify the basic data. Yes, first, the notaries will receive a register of addresses from the central database, the address register, which they need locally, the notaries, who are, by definition, the most directly connected in the area of jurisdiction they supervise, the real or non-real address, person and registrations of residents of the administrative territory of the municipality they supervise, and this data will now have to be authentically returned, cleared of any errors, errors, and anything else, so that the public administration authorities can create this central directory, so that a necessary clearance of data will be established in accordance with my proposal opened in the first stage. My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar and Gábor Staudt, have already been told on several occasions that this debate has been held partly on the committee, partly on TV and in other areas of political debate. Here in Parliament, the issue of the Council of Property Policy has been resurfaced. I propose that I continue to recommend that the Minister's powers extend to the nomination of all members of the Government Council. That doesn't mean that Sallai R. Benedek says that he's shutting me out, narrowing me down, and I don't know what else he's doing, that doesn't mean that his fellow ministers' proposals are ignored if they come up with a proposal. That doesn't mean that. So it is not true that the potential candidate of the Ministry of Property Management is automatically excluded. This does not mean that, but one person will be responsible for the Minister for Agriculture who will be appointed to this council. Beyond this debate, I don't want to deal with it anymore. I'm telling you, we've done this on several levels, but let's do it here in Parliament. Zoltán Magyar asked whether the statements would have legal consequences if they did not return. There is no legal consequence, more specifically, that those who do not comment despite the request will automatically be deleted from January 2015 until 31 July 2015. So that's the legal consequence of those who don't comment. There's no strike separately. This has to be done on a form issued by the Ministry, so it has no cost, I would say. If, of course, we are hairstrikers now, then you may have postage costs, perhaps fuel costs, if you do so directly at the land office, then such costs, yes, I acknowledge that this is a possible cost, but I did not think of any other fee-type costs, nor did I suggest, in connection with the presentation. Whether a person makes a false statement, Zoltán Magyar also asked, this may happen, but the administrative bodies of the state start by making a declaration as a result of the birth certificate and the address and other registration certificates to clarify whether that statement complies with the principle of authenticity, and if not, it is also clear that the false or false declaration entails deletion. In this way, the procedure will be automatic, there is no need to think of any specific tricks about how to play out a statement, not a statement, or a false or false statement. I have already partly referred to my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict's point. Don't get me wrong, Congressman, you have also opened up thoughts about this bill which are far from the scope of any of the motions tabled, and we always return to the law of the land. Of course, I have also noticed with my fellow opposition Members that they have missed what is not in it. This can be debated at any forum, at Commission level, and even if an open day is initiated on the shortcomings of the land law, we can argue on this, and we can submit written questions, interpellation and everything, but the submission of today's draft law is not an issue. This was quite clear and I think it was about technical amendments. I do not want to reopen the debate that we had in Parliament for a year and a half, in Hungarian on the internal content of the Land Traffic Act. Many people have referred me back to it, but I would like to mention once again, as I did at Zsolt Legény, that the earth traffic law is not open. Because of its consequences, I proposed technical amendments to some of the laws. What has been said here as a concrete point about the law, the composition of the Council for Property Policy, is the same answer that I have already mentioned in part, as I have answered my fellow Members' objections. I believe that the operation of the Council of Property Policy will not be undermined, but that responsibility will be clearly clarified by the Minister responsible for current land affairs. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-23-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our previous decision, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote will also take place at our meeting on 4 July. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Kiss, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke after today's agenda: "He cut through the Iron Curtain 25 years ago, Gyula Horn. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-275	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. It is known by many that since 1949 an iron curtain descended into the middle of Europe, separating families and historically related communities. The term itself comes from Churchill's Fultoni speech, but in a short time it became a symbol of Europe's division. First, along the western borders of Hungary, a mine lock was built, and from 1965 it was stopped by the then government, and an electronic signalling system was built for a length of 260 kilometers instead. The Hungarian and Czech border closure was a constant weakness of the Iron Curtain, and since the mid-eighties, the abolition of the signalling system was constantly on the agenda in Hungary, and when the news spread that the Austrian-Hungarian border closure was being broken down, the masses of the former GDR citizens started towards Hungary. On 2 May 1989, the Hungarian-Austrian border will begin to break down the technical barrier, and on 27 June, Hungarian and Austrian Foreign Minister Gyula Horn and Alois Mock personally cut through the so-called Iron Curtain. It is also important to point out that the Hungarian government, led by Miklós Németh, has not agreed with anyone on the breakdown of the Iron Curtain or on these events, announced the mere fact to Mikhail Gorbachev. Joachim Jauer, a ZDF television correspondent, believed some 25 years after the event that, literally, I would quote, "Hungary opened the way to the free world. " According to Jauer, without what happened on 2 May 1989, the collapse of the infamous Berlin Wall, the collapse of the GDR and the German reunification would hardly have happened that way or, at least in his own words, much later. [[20.30]] Gyula Horn, who died more than a year ago, played a key role in these events, as he not only had the iron curtain cut through, but also the fact that the Hungarian authorities allowed the former GDR citizens to cross our borders from 11 September 1989, but also prepared the withdrawal of Soviet troops from Hungary as foreign minister, and later raised the thoughts of NATO and EU accession for the first time. Dear House, Gyula Horn cut the iron curtain representing Europe's division 25 years ago at the Hungarian-Austrian border. On the anniversary of this, the permanent representation of the European Commission set out a plaque in 2009. I think the least we can do is to commemorate this historic act in Parliament 25 years after the anniversary, after cutting the iron curtain barbed wire. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-23-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. There will also be a post - agenda speech from the Jobbik Group, MEP Zoltán Magyar, who "When will we finally have agriculture instead of industrial raw materials production? ' "It Speaks." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My speech after today's agenda has given me the news that the news that around HUF 4,000 is around the grain harvest, and this does not really cover the cost of producers, and in many cases it is not at all, and I would like to dissect in these five minutes how we have come to the point that every year this problem comes up. Although there are more fortunate years, and this is obviously a relief for those working in this area, this problem still arises in the majority of the years. And we can't avoid the government's responsibility here, because they're in their second term, and they're two thirds in a row. So, I think that pointing backwards now has less and less role and opportunity. The first thing I should highlight is the lack of the cooperative system and its reflection on the Hungarian conditions, as in 2010 several times as a promise made here in the House's walls - even in the ministerial response to my interpellation - that the cooperative law must also be a necessary element of the transformation of the Hungarian countryside. We've been waiting for this famous cooperative law ever since. It is well known what internal struggles there are in Fidesz, as a well-functioning cooperative system based, for example, on the model of Austria, would be detrimental to serious interests. I believe that your friends, those large owners who paid for a significant part of their campaign would indeed be in harm's way, but it would indeed be in the short term for honest, small and medium-sized Hungarians who live locally. At the grain purchase prices, we cannot avoid the monopoly position of a few large companies - perhaps five larger ones - which has made the life of Hungarian producers miserable for two decades now. Every year, I have to say, these companies are able to realise in the Hungarian budget only minimal tax revenue, and the Hungarian budget of these companies, as they keep their presence as a loss, while we know that most of the harvested grain is sold through these companies, and these companies are buying themselves up. It was promised that the Hungarian government would end the so-called wiener of these companies, and that it would appear in this market more seriously in terms of some kind of state involvement. To date, this has not happened, and the steps we have seen so far are very minimal. It also leads to this uncertainty, such fluctuations in buying-in prices, that the government is also slowing down with the restructuring of the aid scheme. At the hearing of Minister Lazarus, I was shocked to learn at the committee meeting that he said the same numbers, which we heard here in Parliament as a betterman or from the mouth of József Ángyán in the last term, that is, 70 percent of agricultural development aid is being stolen by 7 percent of companies in Hungary, and while it was previously denied here in the walls of the House, it is now recognized and can be said from the mouth of a candidate for minister. Which, of course, was said that he then added that this is why we need serious changes, and that is why he will work. Because it's sad that after four years of denial, it's only now that they admit it, and it's sad that they still haven't taken any steps in that direction. On the news - we have also heard - perhaps two days ago Magos announced that he is calling on the government because of these grain buying problems, or rather asking the government - the Magos call cannot be expected in this lineup - to buy storage capacities by the state, and thus ensure that producers can sell their crops at a higher price at a later date. On the one hand, this announcement, this request, should not have taken place in the harvest week, but much earlier, and on the other hand, these steps should have been launched by the State in the long term, in a sustainable way, supported by tenders a long time ago. And many other problems can be listed, which leads to the situation that every year here within the walls of the House and farmers must experience on their own skin the uncertainty of living from the ground in Hungary today. And these are the reasons that make me think that as soon as possible about the production of industrial raw materials, because let's face it, in Hungary today they are mostly taking place in our territories, let's finally move to agriculture. And please, I call on the government to make every effort to make sure that this happens. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-278	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you, Congressman, that the Government has indicated that it wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Mr Lajos Kepli, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: "The Liquid Gold, the Water. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 June 1994, the United Nations Convention on Combating Desertification was adopted, which is why this day has become the World Day for Combating Desertification and Dehydration. At this time, attention is focused on the global campaign, which raises awareness of our responsibility for the destruction of land, and draws attention to the need for international cooperation, the global effects of drought. For many, it is perfectly natural that you can get water at any time, anywhere, in any quantity, it does not even occur to you that this is not the case everywhere on Earth, and the time may come when you have to line up for a glass of clean water in Europe and in our country. It's customary to say that the wars of the future will be fought for water instead of oil. Oil is necessary for maintaining and developing our living conditions, but water is necessary for life itself. Only 2.5 percent of the earth's total water supply is fresh water, and its usable drinking part is only about 0.6 percent. Anyone who watches the news over the years may experience either too much water or too little. There are frequent floods, whether here in our country or in the Carpathian Basin, which cause great damage in either economic or social terms; other times the amount of water is reduced, we struggle with drought, often a few months after the floods. And we also often hear that Hungary is a country of water, yet we find that if we have too much water, we simply cannot keep it, we can't do anything about it, we try to get it out as quickly as possible, then when a more drought occurs, then there will be a shortage of water, and there will be huge agricultural damage. Irrigation of our production areas has only been done in a very small proportion. We must create Hungary's water retention capacity. We have already fought countless battles here in Parliament with the State Secretary for the Environment of the previous term, Mr Zoltán Illés, whose opinion can be summarised in a sentence roughly so that the waters flow freely, the rivers flow freely, and no obstacles should be raised. However, this helps little in improving our water retention capacity. I hope that the members of the new government will override this position and take a more practical approach to the steps needed to improve our water retention capacity, and we will start in a direction that will help the process of drying out in the Carpathian Basin to stop or be reversible, and it is indeed true that we are a water rich country and that we can keep these waters. In view of drought and flood damage, long-term solutions should be developed, for which proposals have already been made in previous years, which may be the subject of discussion either on hydroelectric power plants, dams, the Danube-Tisza channel or other proposals. [[20.40]] Of course, whether it is a matter of degree management or other solutions, we are open to professional debate, but let us carry on these debates, and, above all, let us do something first and foremost to ensure that the solution is delivered. Of course, ecological aspects are very important and must be taken into account in improving water retention. But of course, it is also not possible to ignore the solution that will improve Hungary's water retention capacity in the long term, create jobs, maybe encourage tourism, and help other sectors of industry. With this in mind, in particular the World Day against Desertification, we are once again proposing that a dialogue over factions or parties be carried out to improve Hungary's water retention capacity and begin to find a real solution. Jobbik is a partner in this, and we are absolutely on the side of any sensible debate, and we would even like to take the initiative in this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-23-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: " Why does the government not deal with staff who support education and education? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-281	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The May Other in Politics is virtually the only one who stands up constantly for the employees of teachers' work. Nurses, pedagogical assistants, labists, administrators, school secretaries and librarians have been treated extremely unfairly in the last six years, since their wages have not increased since 2008, most of them even lost the cafeteria supplement. It is not just a matter of an immediate wage increase, since they have been completely excluded from the career model and the wage increase. Appreciation of teachers' workers ultimately improves the quality of education. It is in the primary interest of the child and students to work in kindergartens and schools as much as possible with esteemed staff who take the burden off the teacher's shoulders. The LMP stands for this important goal, and we want to ensure that their appreciation is finally improved. To illustrate the unworthy position of the staff currently working alongside teachers, let me quote a letter from a school administrator that I received today: "Dear Congressman, Unfortunately, in this country, education management has completely forgotten that the school could not function without the help of teachers. School secretaries, labists, administrators, librarians in many cases have a college degree and perform very important tasks, unfortunately the government does not pay attention to them. Back in 2002, in the famous socialist hundred-day measure, we received an average 50 percent wage increase, and since I had a secondary education at the time, my salary rose from HUF 38 500 net to HUF 60 500 net. I got my degree in 2007, which led to my salary entering the F3 category, so I've already crossed the net 100 thousand forints. At that time, everyone had 13 months' salary and 5 thousand HUF's meal ticket cafeteria. My salary was HUF 116 thousand net before the 13th month's salary was taken. I was lucky because I got 6,000 forints a month to participate in a HEFOP project. Then the Bajnai government took the 13th month's salary, the HEFOP competition ended, the wages were varied, so my monthly income was reduced to 101,000 forints. After the Bajnai government, the Orbán government has made our situation worse: unfair one-key personal income tax and tax credit. As a result, my salary decreased to HUF 98 thousand net from May 2010, and all kinds of cafetheries were taken from us. Now, in 2014, as an administrator with a higher education degree, I earn only HUF 29 thousand net more than those with only eight general classes. Moreover, we are very afraid that wage compensation can be traced at any time, and we are afraid that it will be taken away from us. In addition, even though I have 14,000 forints of wage compensation, this means that even in the case of a 15 percent wage increase, my wages would not change. In the meantime, I have skipped two payment categories, and I am still in the same place as I was in 2007. My 30-year-old life, I want a family, but my salary is only 13,000 forints higher than the minimum wage. But by the time this 101,000 forints is enough, when my common cost is 13 thousand forints, the repayment of my car is 20,000 forints, my phone bill is 8 thousand forints, the cost of my trip is 14 thousand forints a month, my breakfast and lunch at work is just 20,000 forints again, not to mention mandatory insurance? Every month, I'll have less than 25,000 forints for clothing, meals. Starting a family and having kids? It's impossible. Not to mention how much more work has been done by creating the KLIK than before, but, of course, it doesn't involve any forints for any extra work. What am I still doing on a teaching field as an engineer-informatician? I love my job, I love my students, I don't want to leave, it's my calling. Still, I feel that as a staff member for education and education, I am merely a disdained, humiliated member of the entire education system. " Dear House, So far, the quote. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-23-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Thank you very much. Mr Sallai R. Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda: "István Fekete died 44 years ago. " I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-23-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, - who's still here. Dear Pulpitus, On January 25, 1900, István Fekete was born in Göllén, Somogy County, and became acquainted with life as the son of the local master. He went to school relatively early, five years old, and from then on he received a very hard education, and a man who, not only as a writer, a human and a farmer, could be a role model for any young person or man of today's day, but we can also look up to him because of a number of other achievements. Overall, the essence of the commemoration is obviously his death on 23 June 1970, he passed away 44 years ago, and I would like to remember very briefly some of the events of his 70 years of life. In 1914 he barely entered high school, volunteered for World War I, where he took part as a military soldier outside of the actual battles, and overall fought his own battles, and settled his own battles, and began his economic career. He was placed on a farm in Aika, where he met his wife, and thus had two children in 1930 and 1932. [[20.50]] He started writing very early. From the age of three he had almost records, but it was the period between the two world wars that he presented his life with his sociological writings and very, very humanist writings. He wrote the Republic of the Council very, very critically in his work Ghosts. For this reason, after World War II, the Communist regime did not simply ignore its writing work, but in 1946 the Ávo took it. One of his kidneys broke down, one of his eyes blinded, and was thrown out by John's Hospital after several days of beating. After that, he couldn't get a job anywhere, and he couldn't do any activities anywhere, and although he was a former member of the Kisfaludy Society, he wasn't told of any writing. He came to Kunszentmárton in connection with old relationships, where he began teaching at a fisherman's farm school, and here he allowed his schoolbook Fishermanship to appear, which brought him back to the writing world. After that, he received a very small right to appear in Hungary with his writing pet novels Vuk, Csí, Kele and Bogáncs, and then the works Tüskevár and Winter Berek became the ones that made him a writer again since the 1960s. He could move back to the capital, get a job in the Ministry of Agriculture, and this job allowed him to continue his writing. He conducted very lively hunting publicity both between the two world wars and after World War II. The newspaper Nimrod was a continuous writer, and he did a great deal for Hungarian hunting ethics and culture with his editor-in-chief friend Kálmán Kittenberger. One of the reasons for my speech is not only the 44th anniversary of his death, but also the unworthy feeling of neglect that has appeared in recent times. In my personal opinion, they were well-educated, and for the children they were recommended by the works of Márai and Wass Albert, but this could not have been a reason to ignore István Fekete. At the present moment, it is the work of Bogáncs and Tüskevár that appears in the fifth grade as recommended works, but at the same time a significant part of his works, which deals with the time between the two world wars, life and Hungarians, are practically significantly larger things to say, without the Zsellers, the Ballago Time, the Lawn, they do not appear as recommendations anywhere at the moment. I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that his work has left me unworthy of the education in Hungary, because at present he is still one of the most read Hungarian writers with Jókai. His books were published in 8.7 million copies in Hungary, and his works were translated into 14 languages. His book was first published abroad in 1973, in the Soviet Union. After he was not allowed to go to the Soviet Union in Hungary, he took him out three years after his wife died, and this started his international career for the writer. Overall, we were able to welcome an exemplary man, an exemplary patriot, and an exemplary writer, whom I wanted to present with one more known quote in his life: " I sought the way, wept at the countryside, the creek, the dusty street, the reeds, the shrub-scented forest, everything, but I couldn't find a loophole, and I didn't realize that I had found my country. " With these thoughts, I commend your work to your attention. Thank you very much. [[General applause.]]
u2014-06-23-284	Thank you very much. It's closed with such thoughts, Congressman, that I let you go through with it, because I think it was round and whole. Thank you very much. The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the next extraordinary meeting is expected to take place on 30 June 2014 at the House Committee meeting on Thursday. I thank my fellow Members for their work, and I thank the staff of the Parliamentary Office for their work. I wish you all a restful, good night and a safe return. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 8:53 p.m.]]
