u2014-11-25-0	Good morning. Dear Parliament, I welcome my fellow Members and everyone who monitors our work through television. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr, who I also welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1953, 1,500 political prisoners came home from the Soviet Union, reporting from around 800,000 Hungarians who were deported to the Soviet Union as prisoners of war or interns from the autumn of 1944 for years of forced labour, and who, after World War II, were exiled to the prisons of the Gulag and to the robot Malenki. Two years ago, the National Assembly of Hungary declared November 25 a Memorial Day for Hungarian political prisoners and forced labourers who were taken to the Soviet Union. We remember those who were collected under the pretext of the Málenkaj robot, and were most often taken to the Donbas industrial region outside the Ukraine, near Don, where they were worked in mines, factories, Colhos, railway lines and various large-scale construction sites. Most of them died there, away from their country. They were killed by cruel Russian winter, terrible working conditions and humiliating treatment. They have been victims of the inhuman Soviet communist regime, as have nearly 30 million citizens of the Soviet Union, who have also been sentenced to death by this system. The victims of the Málenkaj robot represented only part of the deported Hungarian civilian population. The other, a small part, came from the ranks of political prisoners. Their fate was even worse. They were taken to eastern Siberia, where they had to spend much more years in even more hopeless circumstances. Their place of exile was so far away, and their punishment was so long that there was hardly any among them who really believed that he would return to his country. Among these political prisoners, the number of survivors was even smaller than those of the robot victims of the Malenkaki. [[8.00]] János Rózsás described the return and domestic reception of the political convicts as follows: on November 25, 1953, the transfer-over took place on the Soviet side at Csap station. Without any delay, we were read by name from the wagons to passenger cars waiting on the Hungarian track tracks. The train started at noon, the unarmed escort Russian soldiers jumped down and waved with their hats, wishing them a happy journey. On the Tisza's temporary bridge, the train assembly was gently rolled over. Touching moments followed. We sang the Anthem, and we decided that if we were asked to land anywhere, we would kiss the precious Hungarian land. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, more than once in their lives, the great joy of returning home was soon followed by domestic ordeals, prisons of state guards, internments, constant harassment of police supervision. This day commemorates all our countrymen who have given their lives for their country, for their Hungarians, for their political, religious beliefs or for their origins. It commemorates all those who have carried into the Soviet Union, deprived of their human and civil rights, on a foreign land, thousands of kilometers away from their home country, and who are caught in in inhuman and degrading conditions. I ask you to remember the victims with one minute's silence and grace. [[The people in the room remember the victims with a silent setup.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Today, István Simicskó, from the KDNP Group, asked for a speech before the agenda: a three-pronged target system in the field of sport. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As Christian Democrats, we say that the family is the cornerstone of our society, and we must strive to strengthen it. We can achieve this goal not only in the form of indirect or direct financial support, but also in a way that strengthens the sport tool system. Sports has magical powers and is also an educational tool. It contributes to a positive change in personality traits, thus improving the ability of our children to know themselves, and also carries community values. Sport is the only resource, since it can strengthen national identity, bring together people of different world views and minds. It is enough to count only the Hungarian successes of the recent sports world events. As a person, the country is happy to see Hungarian sports success in the world. I learned an important operation from mathematics, and I think we all remember that, and that's the common denominator. Many of us don't remember the logic or the mysteries of detachment anymore, but we do remember one thing at a time, and this is the common denominator. Sport can, yes, create national unity, and therefore it has enormous value in itself. Sport picks you up, teaches you to win honestly and lose with your head held high. As a Christian Democrat politician, what else could we do but put this resource as much as possible in the service of building society. In 2010, we saw, ladies and gentlemen, that, unfortunately, we are the hosts of our sports habits in the European Union. A serious task was launched, a serious job aimed at strengthening Hungarian sport, and as a result, the proportion of the adult athletes increased from 5 percent to 15 percent. This is a huge asset, we think, and this is the way we need to go. Our basic task is to raise healthy generations through the sport tool system, so we have set three goals in the field of sport. One, perhaps the most important goal is for all children to play sports in Hungary. The other is to bring as many sports competitions and world competitions to Hungary as possible, to encourage our children and encourage parents to choose not only so-called passive sports, to go out and cheer for our athletes, this is also a great joy and opportunity, but also to actively play sports, so they should also participate in various sports competitions themselves, and as many of our children can play sports. What does it take to achieve these two very important goals? Of course, the government must be given the conditions to play sports, and that is to ensure the possibility of playing sports in decent conditions, and this is to build sports facilities, to host sports competitions and to allow our children to play sports under cultural conditions. Let me tell you some data here in the walls of this House. With the introduction of daily physical education, we have achieved that at present some 890 000 of our children exercise every day during school physical education. We go on this road until we reach the point that 1 million 300 thousand children will play sports in Hungary, so from the first to the 12th, every Hungarian child can play sports because of the introduction of everyday physical education. We support 16 priority sports through the MOB. These are Olympic sports. I'd like to tell you, thanks to the work of the last year and a half, the number of athletes in the resupply class? So it's mostly children and young people? It increased by 20 percent, 20 percent, thanks to the work of the last year and a half. The number of coaches increased by 14 percent and the number of associations and member organisations increased by 5 percent. So it is safe to say that we are on the right track, and that nothing better than the results can confirm that we are on the right track, and that these are actually tangible results. We are pleased that we want to continue this work, and we want to encourage as many people as possible to play sports. The government supports the construction of new gymnasiums and schools with HUF 6 billion from this year's budget and next year's budget. All children should learn to swim in Hungary, that is our important goal. Let me tell you some data: the Athletic Hall of Székesfehérvár has been completed, the first phase of the Bujtosi Leisure Hall in Nyíregyháza has been completed. The Arena of Győr has been completed, where the handball team of the BL winner Győri ETO plays regularly at home, and will be a venue for the European handball tournament. We're about to hand over the Spike Hall in NewBuda this week. District people and children, as well as all of South Buda's great pleasure. I trust that this will also do a great deal to allow as many children as possible to play sports. We're implementing a number of facilities. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Now, because of the shortness of time, I can't tell you. Trust me, it's a huge job what's happened so far. I hope that you will be partners in the future, so that we can deliver as many sports facilities as possible in the coming period, to the joy of our children. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[8.10]]
u2014-11-25-2	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[No signal.]] No. Member Mrs Bernadett Szél has also applied for a speech before the agenda. You can and you can do something about it. It's an address. I give you the floor, please.
u2014-11-25-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, Today is a world day dedicated to the eradication of violence against women. Every year, this day reminds us of how much work we have in this area. Do not think, fellow Members, that this is the problem of the more backward countries. A fifth of women in this country live to be abused, and every week violence against women in this country demands human lives. This situation calls for immediate action, and the first question we need to ask is who is responsible for violence. Tragic, but we're still in this country that most of the time women, the victims, are blamed for the situation they've cost. I'm sure she dressed in a challenging manner, they say if she was sexually harassed, or if she was such a house dragon that her husband gave her a couple of salesmen. I ask: Is this how the government of Hungary thinks about women? I watched the three youth prevention videos presented by the Baranya County Police Department in the framework of the safer project Pécsért. Your spot had a slogan that you could do something about it, you could do something about it! The educational videos of crime prevention have made young women's provocative dress, behavior, alcohol consumption, and everything in the world responsible for one of these women being victims of sexual violence. These spots said it was the victim's fault, it's his fault, it's his fault, it's his fault, he could have been the man who prevented the violence. In the videos, it's not about the perpetrators, it's about their responsibility, and in the video, the unsub stays in the dark all the time. Let me be clear, gentlemen and ladies, this slogan does not apply to victims, but it does apply to the government. You are the ones who are responsible for this situation, and you are the ones who can do something about it. I would like to recall your approach to this whole situation. You didn't hide it. The terrible thing is, they don't just think like that, they talk like that. You may remember the Fidesz MEP István Varga, let us recall today that this Member, who was then subjected to absolutely no retortion, was actually talking about Hungarian women and domestic violence at all. Perhaps we should restore the status and role of family, childbearing. What's the matter with you? The congressman told me. Perhaps mothers should return primarily to raising children, then we would appreciate each other more and not even consider domestic violence. That's what your fellow Member found to say in this Parliament, not so long ago. He said that if women knew their place where our former colleague Varga said they should be, men wouldn't beat them. Now, there's no wonder that if there's a situation like this in this country, there's news every week that women are brutally raped, abused, murdered, and violent crimes happen in college freshman camps. The government is actually doing nothing to protect women from this situation, and I am saying this because you are the ones who have not ratified the Istanbul Convention for a long time. Let me be clear: this convention is about how to prevent these situations. This would put a preventive package of measures on the table, it would be about education and education campaigns, training of police officers, victims' professionals, how to cooperate with civil society organisations, how to support them, increasing the capacity in the shelters, and currently there are hundreds of such shelters in this country, and a thousand-scale scale would be needed. And do you know what the Fidesz-KDNP's justification is for not dealing with this agreement? That's because they say there's no money. Now, I would like to tell you that in the 2015 budget you will put 64 billion forints into the stadiums, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will be planning to move 5 billion forints to the Castle. They want to spend 44 billion forints on the Olympic Center and 28 billion for the Paks expansion. Now, I've put a proposal for an amendment on the table for 8 billion forints to ratify the Istanbul Convention. I would like to know, ladies and gentlemen of the State, whether you will give this money, not to me and not to the opposition, but to the Hungarian women. I would remind you that violence, violence against women, and the fifth of Hungarian women in this country demand human life every week. Fidesz-KDNP cannot afford that after four years of doing nothing about the situation, do not tell me that the 2011 transformation has helped anything. Once again, it would take thousands of shelters, where abused women and abused women can move in with their children, in the order of about a hundred places. So you didn't do it, you didn't do anything. I ask you here today on world day to accept the amendment in which we ask for HUF 8 billion for this purpose. I stress that 100 billion forints have been scheduled for completely unnecessary things in this budget. I would like to clarify that the Hungarian Government's task in this situation is to ratify the Istanbul Convention as soon as possible, to establish an appropriate institutional system in order to ensure that all Hungarian women are protected by the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament. That's what I'm asking of you today. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2014-11-25-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Violence against women is a very serious crime against which all legal instruments must be used in order to prevent it. The government strongly rejects all forms of violence and is committed to eliminating abuse, and will do everything in its power to do so. That is why we have tightened the Criminal Code and on 14 March 2014 we joined the European Council's Istanbul Convention on Combating Women and Preventing Relationship Violence, which we will also ratify. I strongly reject your claim that either the police or any other body would blame or blame women who were victims of violence for the tragedy that happened to them. However, it must be stated that the fight against violence is a common fight in which everyone must participate because it is the only way to succeed. First of all, we need to clarify a very serious misunderstanding about what has been said in your speech. The films in question were made specifically for young and entertaining age groups for educational, educational, crime prevention purposes and not for victims. Spots at Baranya County Police Department [[Lajos Korózs: Those are the victims!]] with the help of well-known media players and renowned contributors who have won several prestigious awards with their prevention films in recent years. The municipality of Pécs County, the Pécs Public Space Inspectorate, the Baranya County Polgárőr Association and the University of Pécs were also involved. The "Selfie" crime prevention short film was made primarily for students, with a debate-starting goal in school education. The purpose of the films is clear [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] combating and preventing violence against women. It's in the interest of all of us. It's in the interest of society. (Zoltán Haughty intervenes. ) Congressman Haughty, if you'd just listen to me, I'd be honored. Although I do know that [[Péter Cseresnyés: He speaks to himself, not important!]] It may not be that important to you, but I would ask you to consider the victims who are affected by this. So the aim of the films is clear: to combat and prevent violence against women. This is in the interests of all of us, in the interest of society, in which we are all on the same side. We are allies in the fight against violence. The critical slogan of movies, "The Can Do," is something you can do about it! He clearly wanted to emphasise that young people should not be irresponsible about the night's entertainment, they were trying to target the message that by using moderate alcohol consumption, planning to get home from the club, by making friends go home together, and by not leaving their peers and friends alone in the night, the chances of becoming victims of crime could be reduced. One of the important tasks of prevention is to emphasise that everyday planning takes into account factors that help to avoid crime. The more factors we ignore, the greater the opportunity for perpetrators to take advantage of the opportunity to commit a crime to our injury. Therefore, it is essential that what depends on us and is not a cause beyond our control, we are consciously trying to take preventive action. Finally, I would like to thank the honourable Member for drawing attention to this very important issue today. I am sure that with cooperation, meaningful dialogue, joint action, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: And 8 billion forints!]] reduce the number of violent crimes against women. That's our common goal. Let's do it together. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's a much more serious and saddly subject than having fun and jokes on this one or this one. So I'm gonna ask you [[But we're not joking, Mr. President.]] Mr President, I ask that there are parliamentary conditions on how you can register for your speech. Please do that. [[Zoltán Pride: I can't do this!]] Or else I'm forced to follow the rules of the house, and that won't do you any good. Thank you. Mr János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, Why did the members of the private pension fund be fooled? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. [[8.20]]
u2014-11-25-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In a few words, it is worth remembering first of all the promises Fidesz made in the election campaign back in 2010, four and a half years ago. What was that about? Fidesz wrote in his election program that he would protect pensions, protect people who are pensioners, not let their interests get hurt. What's the end of that? Did that just happen to miss out on the election program? Like so many other similar moments, Fidesz is preparing to nationalise private pension funds. They also took this step by saying that György Matolcsy said that anyone who does not go back to the state pension system, but wants to keep his money and direct his payments to the private pension fund, will not receive a pension later. At the time when they threatened people, cornered 3 million people, private pension fund members, tried to force this incredibly wide crowd of people to withdraw from the private pension system into the public pension system, the government gained the assets of these private pension fund members. Forints 3000 billion, 10 percent of GDP, went into the cash register as a sum, and then the government practically lived up to this amount over the last four years, so not only did its original commitment fail to be fulfilled, they did not protect the private pension fund's assets, but the government spent virtually all of this incredibly large amount. The question here is, why did they screw people over? Why did you promise to protect this fortune? Why hasn't it been established, in breach of Viktor Orbán's personal promise, the individual account management system that would guarantee former members of private pension funds that their contributions would remain, there is actually something to be done when they have to pay the pension in a decade or two. Jobbik supported that private companies should not handle this incredibly large mass of wealth, not private companies, that we should create a public system that can handle this property with responsibility, and that records the payments of former private pension fund members on individual accounts. What's next for this? The government is spending all of this money. What will the pension be paid out of later? Will the pensioners show the promise of Viktor Orbán, what he did before, many years ago, that Viktor Orbán promised that he would be paid? It's very simple, unfortunately. The Hungarian population is a population, Mr. Secretary of State, your policy has driven 600 thousand people from the country to work in Western Europe, because these people have not found the means to make a living, to make a living. Unfortunately, here we are, with this he issued a government certificate of himself, and, indeed, we can see that less than half as many children are born with the ability to ensure the growth or at least the maintenance of the nation. Unfortunately, this has been the common sin of the past 25 years, the period since the change of regime, and the socialist governments are responsible for it as well as the Fidesz government. And what can you do? Where is the individual account-paying system, Mr. Secretary, that you promised me? Why don't you get him up? Of course, we can ask you where you'd get 3000 billion forints in this, Mr. Secretary, you know very well that private pension funds have been spent. But then I think it's time for the government to admit that you tricked him, knowingly lied to his constituents, admit that you really ran out of money. By the way, pretty much everyone who's heard about the fate of the State Debt Reduction Fund knows that, and, yes, you must apologize to society, Mr. Secretary of State, that you've played people very badly. I would not consider it fortunate for the Secretary of State to say again that you have won a two-thirds election victory and what election victory entitles you to. Not to loot this country, to rob the population, to beat people's savings. The socialists have shown themselves during their own government years that public debt has been increased, and your government's greatest achievement has been that they have been able to live up to the country's savings in a demonstrable way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to say in advance that the government has not fooled anyone, not one private pension fund member, not one pensioner, just the other way around. With the 2010 regulation, he gave people safety back, and they need not fear that their private pension fund money will be lost as a result of any bad investment or bad economic policy. So we believe that with the 2010 regulation and the return to the state pension system implemented in 2011, more than 3 million people have withdrawn, we have restored the sense of security for the Hungarian people. Everyone can be calm and confident that they will receive from the state their regular pension, which they deserve according to the law, depending on their income and the service period they have been able to perform. Is it true that the government and the Parliament with the regulation at that time? Which, by the way, you supported, as you said? He did not create a drastic system and did not eliminate it with a stroke of a pen, but gave us the opportunity to keep it in the private pension system, and about 100,000 people did so at the time. Since 2011, the number of members remaining in the private pension fund has decreased to 61,500 members based on the third quarter data, so in the meantime more than a third of the members have realised that they do not feel safe there and can go back to the state pension system at any time and that they will not lose any entitlement, they will be entitled to everything, they can withdraw at any time. In the course of the operation of the private pension funds, it was found that the members, although bound by the law, did not pay membership fees, and therefore the private pension funds, which remained, could not ensure their functioning and that many were wound up. In total, four private pension funds remained in the scheme, and the four private pension funds could not ensure their operation, but only at loss. Thus, since members do not pay, a significant part of the 61,000 members do not pay membership fees, they cannot ensure stable operation, and therefore these private pension funds are in jeopardy, and by operating they are one-quarter, or 25 percent, of the future pension of more than 60,000 people. So now, when the bill says that the cash registers that, within six months, look at two months, more than 70 percent don't pay membership fees, it protects and secures the pension of this 60,000 people. There is no need to terminate private pension funds, simply the conditions imposed by the law must be met by the members of the fund, so the member fee must be paid, and if, therefore, the members' fees can ensure the operation without loss, then the four private pension funds can, of course, remain and of course continue to function. Unlike in the Czech Republic, since the possibility of a private pension fund in the Czech Republic was abolished from 2016. By the way, this system was unique in Europe, essentially Hungary was an experiment, more than 3 million people were experimented with by the socialist government at the time, and it has to be acknowledged that this experiment failed, and the Fidesz government had to correct it, redefine the system and restore the faith and trust of more than 3 million people in the pension system. This has happened in recent years and also in this regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.30]]
u2014-11-25-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda from the MSZP Group, MEP László Teleki has asked:, He is building the country of the poor and beggars with the title Fidesz. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The current Orbán government likes to be called glorious and to label its actions as historical, to set it up as welfare measures. The reality is, on the other hand, that the continuously fighting Prime Minister Orbán will deepen the trenches and open up the social and social scissors with thorough battle plans. Using the power of the orange-painted and cut electoral law, perverting reality and abusing its power, it is now starting another war against the poor and those who desire to learn. For those who have been exposed to poverty, children of poor parents have been less and less likely to learn for four years. Among other things, thanks to the 16 years of schooling and the opaque scholarship system, the Orbán government is building the country of illiterates, because they believe that it is easier for the uneducated to do what they want to do. Exploit ignorant people, keep millions in poverty? That's the intention. Dear Parliament, Thanks to the national cooperation system, Fidesz, we became the country of more than 3 million beggars, 1 million of the 4 million workers can bring home the amount of less than the minimum living amount calculated by the HCSO, with eight hours of full-time work. Let's face it, the net salary of 66 483 HUF is not enough to allow the XXI. Provide a life that meets the minimum needs of the century. And then we hadn't talked about the hundreds of thousands of people who were forced to spend their lives on public wages, or they had to continue humiliatingly for aid. What, on the other hand, happens to those who are excluded by the national cooperation system, who have been excluded from the supervision of the government in the continuous spotlight? Prime Minister announced that his main objective was to reduce social expenditure and to reform the support system by eliminating aid. It is a commendable effort to achieve full employment, but what is the guarantee that measures for the cosmetics of purely statistical data will ensure an honest and decent living for working citizens as well? Will there be value and honor in the work, or should the kingdom of stadiums and the economy of the empire of the Oligarchy be built for beggars and slave wages? Does the national cooperation system and the third Orbán government provide security and protection for millions on the brink of social divide? For example, those desperate people who fled from the numbered streets of Miskolc to Switzerland from the freedom-fighting government and its actions, which are slowly declaring war on America. Our troops are fighting, but is the government in place? said just 58 years ago Prime Minister Imre Nagy, the Martyr Prime Minister. In accordance with what has been said in his famous radio declaration, I am now telling the country's people and the world's public: the country of fear and vulnerability is being built behind a new iron curtain with public slave workers in the middle of Europe. Will 10 million of the more than 3 million beggars be satisfied, educated and socially vulnerable, and will there be a chance for equal access to healthcare for both poor and rich? Unlike now, if you have money, you have a better chance of learning, of surviving a disease, unlike now, only those who have money can continue to learn. Among other things, answer whether in 2015, the new budget year, they want to reverse poverty, the lack of prospects in our country, Hungary as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-25-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If there was a party in this Parliament that sought to keep a large number of people dependent on aid and gain some advantage before the elections, it was precisely the Hungarian Socialist Party. He was the one who wanted to push Hungary's population into poverty and aid, precisely so that he could use it for political purposes. This has been evident from the policy of all socialist governments since 1994. The objective of the Fidesz-KDNP is to ensure that everyone who is healthy, who is able to work, who is able to work and who allows physical condition to get a job, can work and live on wages. He asked, Mr President, what is the guarantee that the government will move towards full employment. Honourable Member, the previous four years, since there has not been a country in Europe where unemployment would have fallen faster in the last year than in Hungary, from 11.1 percent in four years to about 7 percent. And we can also say that there has not been a government in the past where employment growth would have been so high, since 3 million 600-700 thousand people had worked before, of which about 1-1.5 million paid taxes, and now we can see that there is an employment rate of around 4 million 188 thousand. So much more people can now make a living on their wages, much less people need to spend their lives on 20-30 thousand forints of aid, but they can live on the average wage of 70 thousand forints or the minimum wage of over 100 thousand forints, and we hope that they will live on higher amounts later. I also think it is important that not only unemployment has decreased as much as possible in Hungary in the last year in the European Union, but there is no other country in my opinion, either within the EU or outside, where, perhaps, one of the most important parts of the cost of living, i.e. the most important part of those living in the difficult queue, the overhead costs would have been reduced by more than 20 percent. Mr President, everyone saw around 2008 when the economic crisis broke out that payments in the crisis will not increase greatly, at best they will stabilize, in bad cases they will decrease, and not only in the public sector, but also in the market sector. If wages do not increase globally or in Hungary, and we want to prevent mass poverty, then it was precisely by reducing the cost of living and the cost of overhead that hundreds of thousands and millions of people in Hungary could resist. That is why this government has taken the policy of reducing the rent, which is why it has agreed that what you have taken from the pensioners as a 13th month pension, which you have taken from the teachers as a 13th month wage, can be returned to them in the reduction of the rent, as they save the amount of one month's wages on a one-year basis. In addition, it is important that it is much easier for families to make a living from the point of view of the fact that, overall, HUF 700 billion remained in the family-type taxation system for parents who have had children, with an average Hungarian parent holding HUF 20,000 more than four years ago, and this is due to the family-type taxation system. The various statistics exclude both the expenditure for job creation, the creation of public jobs and the inclusion of such benefits, especially the reduction of the rent, since they are not used to reducing the rent in Western Europe. Of course, they are not used to a government raising the fees, twice and three times, during its eight-year government. There they are still taking action to protect national interests, to protect citizens, not as the socialists did. That's why it's important for people in the toughest line? especially for those who send their children to school because of their age? free textbook supply is also a social benefit that saves up to HUF 5 000 per month, but does not appear in international statistics on various welfare services. For those who raise small children and have no money to buy textbooks, we were able to help hundreds of thousands of people. You know very well that we were able to provide textbooks for 650-700 thousand children free of charge, and this will be more next year, since in the emerging system not only first and second graders, but also third graders can receive their textbooks for free next year. In the various poverty indicators, which you have cited distorted, which, according to the real figures, account for between 400 and 450 thousand people who really live in extreme poverty, it is a very important consideration that the problems for most people were housing expenditure and financial problems. In Hungarian, the problem of foreign exchange lending was the one that placed Hungary's poverty indicators in a long-term negative range. But by accepting in this Parliament in these weeks the last package of foreign exchange-credited rescue packages, we hope to eliminate one of the greatest risks of poverty that we inherited from the socialist era. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.40]]
u2014-11-25-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a pre-meeting speech from the Fidesz Group, our colleague, István Németh Szilárd, has applied:, Where do we have another hundred million of Gábor Simon? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Gábor Simon, former Socialist Member of Parliament, Minister of State for Labour, President of the National Election of the MSZP, then Deputy General President, the second member of the Party decided to open bank accounts in Austria in January 2008. On 28 January 2008 and 10 April 2009 he placed EUR 575 thousand and USD 163 thousand on these accounts, with a total of HUF 240 million. The Savings of the Socialists told the Austrian financial institution that the property originated, among other things, from the sale of a company and a property in Budapest. However, during the period in question, Gábor Simon did not own real estate of any value, nor any company that could have explained the origin of the fabulous amount. The savings in Gábor Simon's foreign bank accounts are not included in his declarations of assets, nor did he declare the amount as income, so he did not pay the tax required by the legislation. The Deputy President of the MSZP committed a counterfeiting of documents by submitting false declarations of property to the Parliament. Both in 2008 and 2009 Gábor Simon was subject to national security control for his appointments as State Secretary at the time, but he did not mention his bank accounts abroad on the completed so-called "C" questionnaire. Simon in the D.A.'s office also lied that hundreds of millions of people hiding abroad were only in possession of property management. Then it was immediately discovered that the MagNet Bank in the capital also had a hidden assets of about 75 million. Furthermore, when the police searched Tamás Welsz's house, the detectives found Gábor Simon's separate safe. This contained a passport from Guinea-Bissau, issued under the name Gabriel Derdák, but containing Simon's photo, data and signature with his own hand, which was used to open a larger bank account. Then another Austrian bank account showed up with hundreds of millions of euro assets. Furthermore, the amounts paid for the properties purchased by Simon came from unknown sources which did not appear in its tax returns, and therefore did not pay the tax. At that point, it seemed to be possible to cash in for a hundred million-dollar tax and non-payment. But suddenly, at the end of October, Simon paid the authority 128 million forints as a tax back on his assets stashed in foreign bank accounts. He certainly did not transfer the tax back from the money in foreign accounts blocked by the investigating authorities in the spring because he could not have access to it and could not have access to it today. By settling the public burden, however, he acknowledged that the hidden property was his or at least he could guard it. But it also proved that in the spring the entire left choir was lying to protect Gábor Simon and the party. Ladies and gentlemen, An interview was conducted with János Zuschlag, in which he also talked about the fact that the management of MSZP had to know about the secret 240 million of Gábor Simon. To do such things alone without anyone in the party knowing about them, because of the characteristics of the MSZP system, said Zuschlag. And Gábor Simon, as I mentioned earlier, was the second man of the socialists, the president's right-hand man. And there's another Zuschlag parallel: someone used to throw him 50 million forints, which could reduce the sentence. Could the 128 million have been the same people who wanted to help Simon now, who used to be in Zuschlag? Could this silence be the price of taking the blame? Modern Red Aid? Dear Parliament, The left cannot think that Simon's departure from the MSZP is no longer related to the case. When Simon opened bank accounts, I say once again, he was very close to them, because he was the State Secretary of the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, Deputy Chairman of the MSZP. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, You owe people answers. Tell me what role they play in this corruption case, which is still full of lies. Thank you for listening. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone on behalf of the government wants to answer. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because we will continue our work with decisions. I will wait until my fellow Members, who, at my first encouragement, refused to sit down, sit down. Dear Parliament, The House Committee B/1812/2. The Hungarian Academy of Arts' 2012-2013 report of the Hungarian Academy of Arts initiates the Parliament to ask the Committee to decide on the report submitted to the National Assembly of Hungary. The house rules are 85. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the Committee on Culture to take a decision on the report in B/1812/2. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the committee to take a decision by 122 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. A final vote on the bill initiating the publication of the Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and Georgia, of the other part, will follow. The submission was made by T/1962. was given to them. Since there is no committee for discussion on the bill and no amendment has been tabled, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1962. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 127 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. A final vote on the draft law on the publication of an Association Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Moldova, of the other part, is now coming. The submission was made by T/1961. was given to them. I will ask Congresswoman Timea Szabó to take her seat and do not disturb the order of the meeting. Since there is no committee for discussion on the bill and no amendment has been tabled, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1961. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's bill? Congresswoman, do you take your place and do not disturb ministers to carry out their duties? With 133 votes in favour, no votes against, and six abstentions, the bill was adopted. A final vote on the bill for the publication of an Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Ukraine, of the other part, will follow. The submission was made by T/1960. was given to them. Since there is no committee for discussion on the bill and no amendment has been tabled, the final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1960. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 139 votes in favour, 5 against and without abstentions. [[8.50]] The 2009 CLXII loan to the consumer is now coming. to decide in an exceptional procedure on the amendment of laws and certain related laws. The submission was made in T/1997. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. T/1997/4. and its summary report, T/1997/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in addition to the preliminary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, T/1997/3. The Commission also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the proposed amendment. Decisions shall not be subject to a request for reservations or a separate vote in accordance with the rules of the exceptional procedure. First, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1997/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes to 114, 11 against and 24 abstentions. We are now deciding on an over-extensive amendment proposal. According to the provisions of the house rules, following the decision on the summary amendment proposal, we must first decide on the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal and then decide on its adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1997/3. Extensive proposal No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal expanding by 112 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions to be in order. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1997/3. Number 3 formal, over-expansive amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal, which, by its vote, was passed by 125 votes in favour, 18 against and six abstentions. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill that has been changed with the accepted summary and the proposal for an over-extension. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended bill. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 115 votes in favour, 13 against and 25 abstentions. It follows that the bill on the change in the currency of each consumer loan contract and the resolution of issues relating to interest rate rules will be decided in an exceptional procedure. The submission is T/2055. was available or available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2055/3. T/2055/4. You can read it. We are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal, given that there is no possibility of a request for reservations or a separate vote under the rules of the exceptional procedure. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2055/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on the text of the bill that has been amended by the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended bill. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 116 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. Final vote of the bill amending the law. The single motion is T/1803. was given to them. I would like to inform you that no Commission amendment has been tabled and the proposal has not been discussed by the Legislative Committee. However, the MSZP group asked for T/1803/3. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That's what we decide first. T/1803.3. Amendment 3 - Proposal for an amendment by Mr Tóth Bertalan. I'm asking you if the proposal is being maintained. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 116 against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1803. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 20 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law. The submission is T/804. Number 2 was available and available on the parliamentary IT network. T/804/6. T/804/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decision. In view of the fact that no amendments have been proposed by the political groups and no separate votes have been put forward, we are now voting on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Committee on Budgets will accept T/804/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 119 votes in favour, 32 against and 9 abstentions. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of the National Assembly is T/804/8. It shall send a single proposal to the Budgetary Council. The Board of Budgets shall inform the Parliament within 3 days of the adoption of the Act 25. § 3 opinion. The final vote will accordingly take place at our meeting next week. The decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on scientific research, development and innovation will now follow. The submission is T/1768. Number 2 was available and available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1768/23. and T/1768/24. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/1768/17, paragraphs 18 and 19, the LMP is the proposals for amendments T/1768/17, 18 and 19 and Jobbik is the T/1768/2. Amendment Nos 5 and 5 were proposed to continue. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1768/17. István Ikotity's proposal. The alternative is T/1768/2. in the proposal tabled by Congressman György Szilágyi. First, at the request of LMP, T/1768/17. we decide to maintain the motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 18 votes in favour, 119 against and 24 abstentions. [[9.00]] Now, according to Jobbik's request, Member György Szilágyi submitted T/1768/2. We decide to maintain the amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 17 votes in favour, 143 against and 2 abstentions. T/1768/5. Proposal for an amendment No 3 on the proposal of Congressman György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 18 votes in favour, 142 against and 2 abstentions. T/1768/19. Amendment No 1 proposed by Mr Sallai R. Benedek and Mr István Ikotity. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 19 votes in favour, 120 against and 24 abstentions. T/1768/18. István Ikotity's proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes in favour, 120 against and 25 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1768/23. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask you if T/1768/27 is accepted. A single proposal. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 133 votes to 30, with two abstentions. The final vote and the decision to make a summary amendment to the proposed European Territorial Association Act will now follow. The submission was made in T/1708. Number 3 was available on the parliamentary network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1708/4. T/1708/5. was available. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1708/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 6 against and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1708/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 1 against and 28 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that, following the request of the MSZP Group, the Parliament has already carried out the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary to ensure participatory democracy. The debate on the inclusion of Bill No. 1 in the series of articles. This is now the final vote. I am asking you, fellow Members, if you will consider the T/1841 presented by József Tobias and other colleagues. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 47 votes in favour, 120 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We are now continuing our work with the general debates. But in order for all our fellow Members who are now leaving the Chamber for the urgent task of office, without interrupting the debate, we will have a technical break of about two minutes. [[It's a short break. ? Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2001 LXI on the protection of cultural heritage. General debate on the amendment of law and related laws until closure. The submission was made in T/2082. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee designated for the detailed discussion of this proposal is the Committee on Culture, which will conduct the debate. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-17	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are few people in the world that have suffered as much suffering and destruction as the Hungarians, and few people can say that after so many storms they have been able to save their architectural heritage and traditions and wake them up like the Hungarians. [[9.10]] Few of our cities could preserve their centuries - old faces, our villages, the architectural monuments of the people were even more exposed to destruction. And yet we still have thousands of buildings that show us the meaning, ingenuity and last but not least the will to exist. In one of his writings, Miklós Mednyánszky, one of today's outstanding heritage conservation experts, writes this. The thoughts of this excellent personality of the profession also indicate that heritage conservation, both large areas of the profession, archaeology and the protection of monuments play a key role in Hungary in terms of our identity. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a major legislative amendment on your table involving a number of essential points. This amendment aims at a comprehensive renewal of our 2001 law on the protection of cultural heritage. Before my fellow opposition Members in Parliament start talking about... [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention:]] ? I would like to inform my fellow Members that we have placed the current bill on your table as a result of very important professional and social discussions in several rounds. Following the development of the amendment concept, we received the leadership of all archeological and museum organizations here in Parliament, together with the Prime Minister's staff, the relevant Deputy State Secretarys and heads of departments in the region. In addition, in addition to the representatives of professional organisations, the directors of institutions and museums with higher state and municipal reservations participated in the professional consultation, including the leaders of the Hungarian National Museum, Szeged, Kecskemét and other museums. In the consultation of society, private entrepreneurs involved in archaeological exploration were also involved; institutions with independent exploration rights were also involved in the current legislative environment. A comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and its preparation would have been unthinkable without an effective negotiation with the economic area, as we have seen from the serious debates over recent years that we must be able to reconcile the interests of the cultural sector with those of the economy. In Hungary, there are many large investments, road construction, and in the next EU development period we will also spend billions of HUF to build new roads. These are all important tasks for archaeologists, but archaeologists must also take into account that we can make improvements that are so important for the country within the time limits of EU accounting. Therefore, when preparing the bill before you, National Infrastructure Development Ltd. We have conducted ongoing consultations with its experts and consulted experts from the construction companies concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, So what I can tell you is that there is a bill on the table that has the support of both economic policy and economic development managers, as well as relevant cultural professional organisations and institutional leaders. Following the preparation of the specific draft legislative text, the text which has not yet been final was sent in writing to the organisations concerned, their views and their suggestions for improvement were also incorporated into the draft. The one in front of you, so that's what it's all about. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the law has two basic directions. The first area seeks to amend archeological regulations. Experience in recent years has shown that archeological regulations applied to large investments need to be considered and reviewed in order to speed up and improve the effectiveness of previous archaeological works, including those that we have refined or adapted in the previous cycle. We also had to look beyond these, taking into account the experience of the final EU development period, which only partially fulfilled their expectations. The Government therefore reviewed the effectiveness of the regulation developed during the second Orbán government and concluded that further refining and re-tuning of the system was necessary. So we would like to create a more effective model at several points, which can ensure the speed of the archaeological task, while at the same time guaranteeing professional archaeological exploration and guaranteeing the collection and privileges of museums. The amendment of the Law on Cultural Heritage makes the rules for the provision of archaeological tasks related to large investments more transparent and clearer for both investors and institutions involved in the provision of tasks. This will introduce a cheaper and accountable new model of archaeological exploration. Let us look at the more important points here, ladies and gentlemen. We strengthen the principle of territoriality in terms of both archaeological exploration and the placement of the finds. Preventive archaeological explorations are provided by the nearest museums with an archeological collection circle affected by their collection area, so the participation of museums with county scope is justified only if the task cannot be carried out by urban museums. This will also make it easier, more transparent and faster to perform tasks at this level. I note to my fellow Members that there was, of course, a conflict of interest between some museum institutions here. This conflict of interest is difficult to resolve, since city museums, which have their own collection area, are opposed in some cases when the county museum wants to do archaeological works in the same area. We know very well that not all city museums have archaeological exploration privileges. We also know that there will not be, because not all the institutions will start and not all the institutions will be able to comply with the registration that we are about to introduce. However, we think it is appropriate to place the values that are worthy of exhibitions and scientific processing in the museum as close as possible to the location of finding them. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before you introduces the concept of differentiated official price, so as to avoid different and uncontrollable prices for the provision of services by institutions with individual rights of exploration. We have seen in recent years that this has been the biggest problem, and that is why we need to introduce a differentiated regulatory price. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very important new institution of the legislation. In the field of archaeological exploration related to large investments, the system will become a one-stop shop with the new involvement of the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre, our heritage protection body, which was united and strengthened with very serious powers this year. Ladies and gentlemen, This greatly simplifies and accelerates processes. The proposal before you is to reduce the scope of large investments. In order to facilitate and accelerate the conduct of investments, it is also appropriate to phase out large investments. This has been seen more than once in recent years, especially after the introduction of the 200 million border, that a section of the road, if not squashed, if not guaranteed, has become unmanageable, since the construction of a 40-mile two-track road was considered an archaeological exploration, as was the construction of a 10-mile, two-track road. Obviously, I do not have to explain to my fellow Members in light of this why we considered it important to phase out large investments. Does the cost of pre-emptive exploration amount to a maximum of 1 per cent of the cost of large investment? this has been the case so far - which must be taken into account in a specific way towards the investor. [[9.20]] After all, you know, fellow Members, that this is the amount that can be allocated to the EU in the case of EU proposals. At the same time, we will abolish the cost limit of HUF 200 million for preventive exploration. This is a very significant change. Here, we also wanted to favour the archaeologist profession, and it became clear in the preliminary negotiations that this prevented exploration. National Infrastructure Development Ltd. The government has decided to abolish the ceiling previously introduced, but the limit of 1 per cent is maintained, and by phasing out large investments, it guarantees that exploration will take place as quickly and efficiently as possible. The 30-day time limit for trial detection and pre-investment exploration remains, which was introduced when the previous cycle was modified. The new element of the bill is the accreditation of institutions eligible for exploration, which represents a limited competitive position and ensures that archaeological exploration of large investment can only be carried out by accredited institutions. Accreditation shall be carried out on the basis of a set of criteria laid down by law, whereby the principle of territoriality and the conditions of professional capacity can be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, Does this mean that, in the future, archaeological exploration should only be carried out by an institution after the adoption of the legislation? We're working on government regulations, implementing regulations, aren't we? the Forster Centre, which operates in the maintenance of the State, undergoes the accreditation process and receives the qualification. This will be a very fast process, we do not want to prevent ongoing work for a moment, so immediately after the adoption of the law, we will submit the regulations to the government and the accreditation will be launched in January. This is a lucky time, because in winter there will be no archaeological exploration because of the weather, so by the time the archaeological works start in the spring, a stable system will be available. Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen that it is necessary to amend the concept of archaeological sites and to tighten the rules on the use of metal detection detectors in the framework of non-exploratory protection of sites. For a very long time, the archeological profession has asked the government to move forward in this area, as illegal so-called amateur archaeologists cause immense damage to Hungarian museums and Hungarian archaeologists. Are there very serious investigations going on, and are very serious findings going illegally abroad by amateur archaeologists in Hungary? Do I quote you? Thanks to his blessing. We are tightening the use of metal detectors by listening to the profession's request. And we also ask the authorities to have partners in this. Not so long ago at the Museum of Fine Arts we saw an exhibition composed of seized, confiscated and found artifacts seized by the police. Nearly half of this exhibition contained archaeological artifacts, and we could see an unparalleled Bronze Age and Home Booking contemporary artifact, all of which were collected by metal finders by amateur archaeologists, and the illegal ones sold in the black trade. Ladies and gentlemen, The reception of the artifact will continue to be the obligation of the museum of the collection area. Of course, the central acceptance obligation of the Hungarian National Museum will also remain, but our aim is to enrich the museums that are territorially competent, if they find a nice artifact somewhere in Borsod County, it should be visible in the museum there. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to talk about some more elements in the debate, now? After I've spent half my time? I would also like to move on to the amendments on the protection of monuments. The government considered that the protection of monuments needed a fundamental change of perspective and that we needed to build a new type of protection of monuments. But as you can see from what has been said so far, ladies and gentlemen, the government has given momentum to the whole heritage protection, the debates and announcements of the past few weeks and even the last few months in public, show that the third Orbán government is committed to the Hungarian monument and the Hungarian heritage protection. Just think, ladies and gentlemen, that, as I have just mentioned, we have established the unity of the area, we have unified the former fragmented governance structure, and a separate Deputy State Secretary under my undersecretary brings together the entire legislation and control of heritage protection, archaeology and monument protection. From the former fragmented background institution, the Forster Center, a Forster Centre in the future, is the guarantee of a one-stop shop for archaeological exploration; this will include, as of 1 January, the task that is currently at the National Heritage Centre, within the framework of the Hungarian National Museum. This is the part of the government's historic estate management that develops the monuments, and here is the fantastic repository, which is related to the Hungarian heritage, and of course, the historic conservation tasks are also performed here. In addition, the government adopted the national castle programme at its meeting last week, and the relevant government decision was already published in the Hungarian Gazette. In the coming years, we would like to spend HUF 40 billion on the renovation and preservation of valuable state-owned Hungarian castles. And we also want to provide new opportunities for private and municipal-owned castles. And as you know, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times, the government has also decided to launch a comprehensive reconstruction of the Castle of Buda by launching the national Hausmann plan and setting up the national Hausmann Commission, which will be the largest historic protection action and investment package of the decade ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, In this process, the element of the current amendment of the law is the basis for a change in the protection of monuments. In the area of historic protection, the government wants to better coordinate the protection of the public interest with the interests of the economy and the owners, bringing about a more sustainable approach and strengthening the interests of the owners. We have recognised, ladies and gentlemen, that the protection of monuments and the ownership aspect cannot be the opposite of each other, it must be things that are mutually reinforcing, and it is also in the interest of the owner of the monument that his property is in as good a state as possible. This must be helped, this must be served, what heritage protection is not worth, which is not able to guarantee the lasting survival of protected values, but only to stand by and watch them die, and may only threaten owners with the horror of sanctions, but cannot help them with anything. When changing views, it is therefore particularly important that the state continues to act, along with its interventions, to establish a dynamic and cost-effective historical management, which considers the owner as a partner. It is important that, if the preservation of the historic value becomes at risk, the State has sufficient and appropriate means of intervention. In order to achieve the objectives, it is justified to harmonise the rules on the protection of monuments and archeology, which is what is happening in the current bill, honourable MembersThe new approach appears below. A more robust protection and protection based on value-finding, taking into account the views of the local community or the owner, which also weighs on functional and economic sustainability, will be achieved in the future. This requires a review of the current monument stock, a review, a change in the regulation of monuments, and a two-stage protection. In the future, instead of the historic category, there will be two categories: registered monument value and the higher category, the historic category will be introduced with the law. In order to ensure a wider enforcement of differentiated effects, it is necessary to implement the classification of the already protected monument. Does classification require a more complex classification in addition to the category of inheritance fines, which is the current regulatory aspect? the age, rarity of the monument, the importance of the cultural heritage as a whole and of the social, ethnic, cultural and religious community concerned? to examine whether the monument is sustainable in a functional or economic sense without State aid or through state incentives or whether it fits into the local, regional or national economic environment. [[9.30]] It should be taken into account that monuments offer an opportunity to use capital from our past for the future. For this reason, we should also take into account that monuments are carriers of economic, development, for example tourist potential, and also play an important role in strengthening national identity, shaping country image, building a local community, increasing the population conservation power of the countryside. The classification of monuments will subsequently be modified, as in the category of fines, following functional sustainability and economic changes over time. Ladies and gentlemen, Gradualisation of protected status through the introduction of a registered monument value can only be declared as monuments after registration subject to a general value assessment and after detailed and scientific assessment. A more precise definition of values will increase legal certainty and will help future maintenance, renovation and restoration work. The temporary protection will also be reformed, so that a more informed decision by the public authority can also be imposed on the basis of a value assessment. The new rule on temporary protection, which we are introducing now, is that it cannot be extended, which also serves legal certainty and predictability. Of course, this also takes into account the interests of the owner. In addition to the Mayor's opinion, the request for a ownership opinion will also be important in the future, based on the partnership cooperation of local authorities and the owners of the monuments. The legal effects resulting from immunity are better suited to society's needs and everyday life by transforming regulation. Our aim is to simplify heritage protection procedures, to differentiate the legal consequences of protection, taking into account the different levels of protection. Ladies and gentlemen, It also helps the maintenance of the monuments, the owners, through the professional services of the State. In the field of expert support for investment preparation and related official procedures, we intend to introduce state expert services in the form of heritage advisory bodies and others, which will also assist investment from the establishment of a recovery and recovery concept to implementation. In the last two decades, we have seen countless examples of renovations of monuments where the monument was restored, and then it remained on parlag because there was no proper concept of recovery at the moment of renovation or prior to the design. Obviously, this type of restoration doesn't make much sense, because if there's no function in a building, it's not fed up, then it's going to be destroyed again. A further goal is to achieve facilitations for the protection of monuments through the certification of experts and expert organisations in specific areas, without which we cannot professionally repair monuments. I am thinking, in particular, of making traditional craft technologies eligible. Ladies and gentlemen, For the government, it is extremely important to apply vocational training programmes in such a way that it serves to strengthen traditional professional work. My fellow Members know very well that in ordering a historic building, let us say, a suitable locksmith, who can authentically fix it, or do new locks and handles, as the originals do, it is almost impossible today. So we must serve to ensure that the traditional professional work, which we have been known to do in Europe, is also strengthened through vocational training, and that we have more and more excellent skilled workers and create new jobs in this way. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important to have continuous monitoring of monuments, and we want better distribution to increase the efficiency of human resources. We will transform the second-degree heritage authority, coordinate the tasks of the authorities with regard to the protection of archaeological heritage, and strengthen the number of first-level authorities, reform of government agencies II. It also serves this purpose. So we're going to run a more efficient regulatory system than before. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that 21 district building and heritage offices will have county competence, and secondly, the Budapest Government Office's Construction and Heritage Protection Office will operate with national competence. The state will, of course, also seek to encourage the owners in the future; by building a good relationship with the participants, we will persuade the owners to make it important for them to restore the monuments professionally. Plus, not just the restoration, but the restoration? What did I tell you? the maintenance and operation of monuments should also be more effective than at present. In the future, we want to introduce a complex financial incentive and support system and maintain it. This amendment creates the basis for this, my fellow Members, and next year we would like to introduce new incentives, which will be incorporated into the tax package. This is, of course, supported by the government, and at the inaugural meeting of the Hausmann Commission, the Prime Minister said how important it is that, where appropriate, private owners, i.e. private owners of historic property, should also be able to benefit from tax relief in order to be interested in the professional refurbishment of their property. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight some of these elements, which can be an incentive. The Government has noted that it is not possible to encourage owners simply by means of an official measure against the owner, by means of fines. Positive motivation is also needed. It is very important to try to provide funding for good maintenance and recovery costs to be advanced by the Authority. We will also have the resources to cover the additional costs of conservation recognised by the Authority in the future. Of course, we will also have the resources at the Forster Center to carry out professional guidelines and forward-looking works. What is to be done next year is the introduction of a new system of historic protection incentives, which could represent a reduced rate of renewal loan, or could represent certain forms of interest-enhancing aid, could mean the introduction of a possible tax relief or the provision of special public services. Ladies and gentlemen, This makes it clear what a change of attitude means. It means that the government, the state, wants to be a partner for historic owners in the future to be interested in renovating their own property. Ladies and gentlemen, My summary sentence is that, as you can see, we are talking about a large-scale amendment to a number of new conceptual elements. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To do so, I call for the active participation of my fellow Members in the debate and their support in the vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-25-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first among which will be held by the lead speaker in a 15-15-minute time frame. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[9.40]]
u2014-11-25-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The 2001 LXIV. We are amending its law, this was the so-called Law on the Protection of Heritage, which we know that in 2001, when we adopted it here in Parliament, it brought a large-scale and important change in Hungarian monuments and heritage matters, and it also introduced a new approach in the profession. But that was almost 15 years ago. Since then, this law has been very much amended and amended by Parliament for technical reasons; between 2002 and 2010, we know that these amendments have weakened it rather and, by the end of the period, they have already shattered the system that has worked very well, started very well. We therefore had to start to put this system in order, and we started this in 2010, through several steps, there have been many changes in the law that have led us today to take a big step and to make this area permanent. This present proposal is a large, focused and thought-out proposal that adapts the whole system of organisations to the needs of today by shaping and transforming the previous approach I have just mentioned. I welcome this, and thank you very much for this great work, and it is very great that this work was adopted together with the organisations. As we have heard from the Secretary of State, in addition to the technical amendments, he has two major directions regarding the amendment of the law, the protection of archaeological heritage, and the amendment of the historical standards. The proposal changes the rules for archaeological exploration of the protection of archaeological heritage, in particular prior to large investments. It transforms the system to accelerate exploratory activity. According to the Government's Statute, we already know that the Prime Minister's Office has the responsibility and powers to protect the heritage. This was an important, ground-breaking step for this case we're discussing today, and so and now they're going to the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Center? Is the law directing this now? certain tasks performed by the National Heritage Centre, which is part of the Hungarian National Museum. This, too, will be a previously launched, thought-out change, which is now well founded by the law. The amendment can now establish the legal basis for this integration. The investor was basically and will be connected to the Forster Centre, so one-stop shop, customer-friendly administration is also possible. The Forster Centre prepares the preliminary archaeological documentation, conducts the trial discovery, proposes an accredited establishment entitled to perform archaeological exploration prior to large investment, and pre-emptive archaeological tasks related to large investment can only be carried out by accredited institutions eligible for exploration. As the Secretary of State said, this is a new element in the matter, an element that strengthens this process. We also welcome and support this. The law also deals with the modification of monument protection regulations, so let us have some thoughts on this as well. The amendment of the monument protection rules covers a more sound and differentiated protection of monument values, better coordination of the interests of owners and value protection, while the amendment concerning the national memorial site is primarily technical and precise and only concerns the annex to the law. The aim is to create a dynamic and cost-effective historical heritage management; a more well-established value-finding protection and protection based on functional and economic sustainability, taking into account the views of the local community or the owner, will be achieved through this transformation of the rules for the promotion of monuments, which is why we welcome it, and by introducing a two-stage declaration of protection, we will also help this and thus harmonise the protection of archaeological heritage. The law is 45. In its section, we are dealing with the transformation of the regulation of monuments, this so-called two-step system. Recorded monument value? as a general protection - the introduction of a protected declaration, a general value registration, and then a detailed and scientific assessment of value can only be introduced as monuments. A more precise definition of values, a detailed inventory of values will also increase legal certainty, and the extension of temporary historic protection will be abolished by the proposal, this is also very important, it will be simplified and the procedure will be more transparent. In addition to the category of calculation according to the inheritance fine, this proposal allows for the consideration of functional and economic sustainability, in addition to value focus, through classification, the existence of monument value and its national significance. The state provides expert services to the maintenance of the monuments, the owners. A further objective in the proposal is to facilitate the certification of experts and expert organisations and to aim at areas specific to the protection of monuments? As the Secretary of State has stressed, this is also an important goal, and we welcome it. On the basis of this proposal, the monitoring system of monuments will be set up, aligned with the powers to protect archaeological heritage, and the number of first instance authorities will be strengthened, capacity increased, the monitoring system of monuments and the performance of the tasks of heritage monitoring can be strengthened with this proposal. Finally, the proposal will contribute to ensuring that the State has sufficient and appropriate intervention if the preservation of the historic value is compromised. These are very important proposals and, as I have just mentioned, it is also a strengthening of this proposal that the broadest possible range of professional organisations have been consulted and that a change of approach can take place, which will at the same time establish and operate a common system of heritage protection for the common good in all its elements in Hungary. I ask with respect Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, am I very happy that you have conducted a social consultation that you have done? In fact, it seems - the government has done it in a manner. This is also very important because it seems so rare in your administration that it should be highlighted separately, and therefore I also try to be fair, and I commend the government for it, because I think it would be similar to any other law for you. It's really good that they just did it, 'cause it's gonna take things forward. I think if they'd done the same thing to the other laws, they might have been able to do a better job. It is also because in this proposal, which is ahead of us, there are some really forward-looking directions that I will also highlight, which the MSZP itself can support. In other cases, we have our doubts, and that's what I'm going to tell you. First of all, it is important to note that since 2010, the system of heritage protection, this system, has been reorganized several times, in a way that, in restructuring, was a common point that one was more flawed than the other. However, you will now return or move to a system that could have been the starting point for 2010. But I have to say, I'm glad the government learned from the mistakes it has made over the past few years. These were highlighted by the Secretary of State in the half hour he intended for this. I don't think I'd repeat them, but we agree that these mistakes have had to be learned. The Secretary of State has formulated objectives that really stand out from the proposal. These objectives, I think, are eligible directions. First of all, the protection of monuments is the protection of archaeological heritage and the coordination of business interests and potential business interests. This really seems to be a contradiction, but I have to say that it is really important for the government to coordinate the developments that will take place, the business interests that these developers obviously have, with the archaeological heritage protection and the objective of the protection of monuments, which must be the direction of the development of our united, universal culture. [[9.50]] These are very right directions, it is very right that this will happen, because there is indeed something to be done in this regard. I think, too, that it is not only punishment, it is not just the whispering of the pallos that can be a tool in this matter, but it is indeed other, softer or positive regulators that have to be thought of here. I think, too, and I agree with everyone, that there is only seemingly a conflict between the fact that a business investment, the development of an area does not include archaeological heritage exploration or any investment in the protection of monuments, because if we think that an area is developing, it is obviously important to protect the archaeological heritage, to cultivate the values of culture. The government really needs to pay particular attention to this, and we certainly agree on that. Similarly, we agree that the direction of the protection of monuments must definitely fit into a different system, not only l. art pour l. art exists, it must fit into tourist development plans or other development directions. I've been in pain for a long time. as district, that the significant Roman heritage in the district will not be used sufficiently, but I understand that the government has initiatives in this matter. I am thinking about the cultural exploitation and proper place of the amphitheatre in the history of Hungary and our past. These alignments, in which the values of our past can be aligned with the business values, are very important, whether small or for my own constituency, it is enough to think that some parts of the Aquincum Museum are being renovated, for example, which, if I know correctly, is on track, and in this connection, this renovation concerns parts of the Aquincum Museum. In this connection, cooperation between the Hungarian State and the Hungarian State Railways and the Renovation and the Aquincum Museum has been attempted, but unfortunately, the museum has still failed to achieve, for example, that at the new stations to be built, even a small sign can advertise the museum and the old Roman built cultural values that have been discovered in the Aquincum Museum with incredible professionalism. I think, for example, that these are the cases that are important for them to be able to achieve. The interesting thing is not only that a given investment does not destroy the artifacts, the archaeological heritage that it is going through, but it is not only important that exploration can take place here, but it can also be interesting that those new investments, those new developments, also carry some additional cultural values. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State to use his tools to enable a kind of achievement, a promotion of the Aquincum Museum, to be made possible by the development of the Esztergom railway line, as it would be very important for the museum to have a kind of description of the museum, not necessarily of the museum, but of the cultural heritage presented by the museum, which would also be very great. I would also ask you to influence this kind of cooperation between the museum and the investor. But it was just a small problem, and I can tell you that it's a III. district problem, it is possible to say that, in practice, my fellow individual Members could stand up here and make the same requests to Minister, Mr Secretary of State. This is just an example of the scope of this approach and an example of how much work has to be done on the part of the government in this area. But speaking of...? And forgive me, Secretary of State, for bringing up examples of my own district here all the time. [[L. Simon László: Good example!]] But for me as a resident and a congressman, maybe that's what's important. It is equally interesting in this respect to investment in the protection of monuments that an additional contribution should be made here, and a new incentive system should be set up. It's kind of the music of the future, but I have to say, I could support such a direction, whether the MSZP or myself. Is it the continuing problem of people living in a 100-year-old gas plant this year? is one of the problems, because there are many problems for the poor - that there is an excessive cost of renovation in each case, since external facade renovations and the switching of windows also require such costs? It is, of course, historic buildings - which a simple Hungarian pensioner, most of the people who live there are old people or people who live on wages and salaries, cannot afford. The facade of the building is very bad in many cases, because the capital itself has not proved to be a good owner of this housing site in the last few decades, and the external facade of the Gázmári-lótelep, and also the windows themselves, are also in an unworthy condition compared to virtually a historic monument, as well as to residential buildings. In any case, it would be good if these investments, the investment in the protection of monuments, could be made in such a way as to enable the people living in them to profit from it, since the people living in the buildings are very often tenants, so they are not in a ownership relationship, most of them cannot do these renovations in their present financial situation. In this case, if the government were to come to their aid, it would not only be the protection of the monument itself, but also the people in it. Returning to the Gas Factory: here it is very important that we are talking about families, many of whom have lived here for a hundred years, since the settlement was established. I know people who are actually born in this building and whose parents were born in this building. Are you sure it's important that we talk about that? This is not a question of this bill, but perhaps of a later one - what about people living in buildings or monuments protected by such monuments. What kind of help do these people get? Does the state always act like a good farmer with these buildings? Here it is enough to refer again to the Gas Factory residence, where, for example, elementary billing tasks cannot be solved at times by the maintainer, not everyone gets an invoice for their monthly rent, but these could be further classified. I therefore think that these are the conceptual elements that we certainly agree with in the proposal. However, we also have fears and allow me to list some of them. They want to set up the Forster Gyula Center, and that would be a kind of central system, a kind of central office, according to you. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can, in any case, to answer that question, what cooperation will be carried out in this centre with the researchers of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because the Centre itself also has tasks that I must say require the highest level of professional approach. It is very well included in the proposal that the technical advisory body assists the Centre in carrying out its archaeological preparatory and coordination tasks. The exact form of this technical advisory body, how it will be uploaded, we would certainly like to know that. Obviously, you don't have to tell Mr. Secretary of State the list, but we'd like to know what circle you think this is. It would also be an interesting question or an interesting question, and it could be done a little bit now, whether all the regulations of these preemptive discoveries, which are mandatory for investment, are in order. I have to say that the government has not taken the wrong steps in this, it is enough to think only of abolishing the cost limit of HUF 200 million. But is the maximum one percent rule okay or not okay? The other question that arises in this regard is whether this 30-day time limit may not be too low, if it could be higher. These are questions that are often raised in professional circles, and I think that we should be able to discuss this in this House as well. For my part, I think it is very good that both the New Crab Crossmen's Cemetery, the Little House and the Eger Castle will be added to another circle, and the Eger Castle as a national memorial, I think it is a very, very good proposal. [[10.00]] Anyone who's ever been to Eger and looked at the castle knows how justified it is to come here. In any case, I consider this to be positive and eligible. We need to talk about whether the kind of centralization that you are doing in this is in favour of professional guarantees. Are those the professional organizations? I am thinking primarily of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences - which undoubtedly include the cream of Hungarian researchers in archaeology as well - how they are channeled into this centralized system. We have a fear that the profession in this central administrative system will be lost a little, so if the Secretary of State could reassure us in a rejoinder, we would certainly welcome it. Depending on the answers to these questions, we decide whether we can support the proposal, because, as I said, there are certainly positive elements of what is ahead of us, but we also have fears about it. I'm not sure that's a valid point, but we think there's a bit of a passage to the construction of the South Stream on this proposal. In many ways, the fear is that they are also bringing in passages that are part of this law in order to facilitate the construction of the South Stream. We don't think that this kind of interrogation would be very good. Since there are, without doubt, elements in this proposal that are eligible, it is not certain that archaeological exploration should also be facilitated in the case of the construction of South Stream. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to these points, and we may be able to support the proposal further. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now from the Jobbik Group that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the notary of the Parliament, will come as the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Really, me, too? About what I've been saying before? I have found a number of points in the present proposal that we can wholeheartedly support, but I must also say, in my preliminary opinion, that there are some points that we cannot, however, support, with which we would argue, and on which we would have a question to the Secretary of State. In advance, it is a point that we were particularly pleased about, which is about borrowed cultural goods. It introduces a brief clarification here, namely that a financial guarantee should be provided if the loan is not to be granted to a museum institution. It's been a missing element so far, and now it's in. At the same time, the next point, which is in the museum law, becomes immediately questionable, namely the fact that until now, a regional museum has been maintained by a state and a local government, and now it is possible to maintain a company established by them. It occurs to you to say it's a kft. How can you carry out official duties, since the tasks listed in detail by you include, for example, measures authorising checks to be carried out under legislation, which are a kind of official procedure. To outsource this to an economic company, I think it is highly questionable and a novel approach to official procedures. Protecting cultural heritage? which is most of the amendment of the law - in parallel, the real estate registration law changes briefly, namely, which is also welcome for us to be able to introduce a law enforcement obligation on heritage protection in the register from now on. This is very good, it is a very big word, so that this can be mentioned separately among the burdens of the property and, at the same time, a ban on disposal and additional charges can be imposed. We welcome that. However, we do not understand that protected archaeological sites have so far been introduced into the real estate register, had to be introduced, but now this is out of the law. What is the reason for this? [[L. Simon László: I don't understand.]] I'll say it again. Protected archaeological sites had to be entered into the real estate register so far, had to be introduced, but now for some reason this short section of the law is missing. I'm asking why I miss him. Maybe we're just missing a technical clarification, maybe it's a technical flaw in the legislation. If that's the case, I'm asking you to correct this. Going on: Gyula Forster, in connection with the expansion of its tasks, will receive back virtually all of its licenses, namely, professional tasks, and will also be able to keep certain records. We welcome that. At the same time, the way in which the law and then the government regulations drafted on this basis allow it to carry out the rights and duties is quite questionable to us. So it is itself that a state institution is re-established that creates a centre for the protection of monuments, cultural heritage, good, welcome, probably additional powers for this institution, but you are the way in which this law empowers it, where appropriate? I'll tell you in what way - we're still in question. We also welcome the fact in the law that it contains a detailed list of bodies entitled to carry out archaeological exploration. This is indeed a parade, institutions that can actually carry out this very important professional task, and the fact that these tasks are subject to an official price is also welcome. However, the fact that virtually all of these tasks can be sub-contracted to so-called accredited organisations, which, by the way, we do not know anything about, since the law refers to any further government decree in this respect is not a good direction. That's a question for us. We believe that if this extremely important task is to be sub-contracted by the legislator, then perhaps this House deserves to know exactly what this accreditation will mean, because at present there are about two lines in the draft law, on the one hand, the possibility and, on the other hand, the power of the government to establish a government decree, which further clarifies this. But the essence of this whole cultural heritage law or its re-creation is to carry out major investment tasks. When this law was amended in order to protect and speed up large investments, I said that for forty-fifty years the Communists sang that the past must be completely abolished, whereas the Fidesz government, which claims to be national and Christian, states in this law that the past must be completely covered; in the case of large investments, there is no need to look very hard at what our country's land can cover, it is better to cover it and provide green lights for large investments. If the previous amendment of the law has graded the schedule of large investments from grade one to stage two, we can now say that this suddenly raises it to level five by not covering it entirely, but by pushing it away. This bill is 33. This means measures from §2 of the Act, and this is about the need to carry out certain types of preventive exploration in relation to large investments. These pre-emptive discoveries are classified in three categories by the draft law, such as archaeological observation, trial detection or full-surface exploration. It is mostly archaeological observation, which is highly questionable for us, because a point of this says that archaeological observation should be required if, due to the technical nature of the investment, the provision of archeological tasks cannot be performed in another way. Someone here has already raised the issue of South Stream, for example. And when it comes to a big investment, it comes down to what it means to be technical. [[10.10]] Is there an investment that doesn't have a technical nature? This is the part of the rubber paragraph in which practically anything can be explained, any justification can be added to this, and, yes, in this respect, the authority is completely free to require only archaeological observation where appropriate. The way in which this preventive discovery is carried out shall be subject to a later point in the same paragraph, according to which the institution entitled to explore and the investor shall conclude the contract in this respect within 15 days after certain data are provided. In English, what kind of preliminary excavation is being carried out in connection with a given investment, this bill intends to settle it within 15 days. [[L. Simon László: Contract concluded.]] What? Contract. However, the contract concerns the type of preliminary exploration that must take place, but it must prevent them from defining what is actually needed here, depending on the technical nature. This seems to us to be an extremely dangerous thought. This is also linked to the fact that groundwork is the basis for preliminary exploration. What is archaeological landwork? Not an archaeological profession? It's written by the law. It's a new definition that's now in. Making a mirror surface that is not the same as the landwork of the investment? Writes the bill, which, by the way, is in question. Now, for example, this earthwork can be done by subcontractors, and then professional management will only be archaeological surveillance, which means I will translate it into Hungarian so that it can be understood for all legislators: there will be an archaeologist sitting in the front corner and watching them push our past away? That's about what it says here, and I think it's a very dangerous direction. Now, this preliminary discovery, you will have a professional documentation, this preliminary archaeological documentation, which also needs to be done at a very fast pace. The final document for this is the so-called exploration project plan. Here is the situation in this regard. It will be the office, this Forster Gyula Office with new licenses, which will send this project plan to the investor. Then the investor will comment on the project plan, modify it, complement it and the rest. And here your opinion must be taken into account both from a technical and financial point of view, if these are in some way an obstacle. This is what it means to me as an architect, but I think it means to all citizens. If someone wants a building permit, then the builder himself gets the plan made, takes it to the office, which takes an opinion, asks for a supplement, and the rest, and at the end of it he'll say yes or no. And then the builder hires the contractor. However, we are talking about a reverse building permit, and here the office is the planner, and the builder approves this plan, and at the end, the office entrusts it with these, say, an accredited organisation, to carry out these pre-exploration work. The fact that the duration of archaeological exploration carried out in the case of large investments remains unchanged, is very limited, so 30 days, which may be extended by 10 days, have been challenged at the time, and I still think that this may prove to be very limited. Now, since my time is very limited, I would like to say a word or two in relation to the classification of monuments. In this regard, I think that the national property law was already a pretty big cut in the first place. This is about the fact that from a national point of view, he has declared some monuments of a prominent nature, and in this sense he has already narrowed down the monuments. I'll give you an example of what I'm talking about. In the past, it was a tribal number, an identification number for the ballet school. For example, this was not included in the national property law for some reason, the ballet institution on which you would like to remember, István Tarlós and Viktor Orbán talked about a joint bus trip that, if the Mayor initiates such a law, Viktor Orbán will do something to protect it and it can be saved. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and what you are now initiating here, namely that the categories of monuments are being completely redesigned, is only endangering the fact that the monuments that have been classified in category 3 can now be completely removed from the historical register. At the time, we started to have a 191/2001. Government decree, which lists monuments in four categories for fines, and these categories of fines could be raised to a much higher level and the corresponding multipliers could be increased. The historic obligation to recover these can, if necessary, be enough incentive, for, say, the owner of a ballet institution to treat the monument properly. At the same time, when you talk about the need to exploit certain monuments economically, for example, the fate of Vajdahunyadvár arises. I cannot not bring to you the social outrage that we have in this regard. It has come to light that the agricultural museum, which was installed in Vajdahunyadvár almost 100 years ago, has been removed from Vajdahunyadvár, and it has also come to light that, in connection with the fate of Városliget, there will be a casino here. Would you have thought of such things in terms of economic exploitation? Is that why we need the social need you have for us? Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-25	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, According to the text of the heritage strategy prepared by Fidesz, the maintenance of cultural heritage is both an obligation and an interest of governments struggling with lack of resources and crisis phenomena. The decisive and irreplaceable sources of cultural heritage elements, documents of a community's identity, cornerstones of traditional national values, are part of today's, still viable human environment, in which the order and rationality of sustainable development can be enforced as well as in the case of the natural environment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These are very kind thoughts, but there has been a huge difference between words and concrete actions in the last government cycle. Prior to the two-thirds government of Fidesz, there were serious problems with the protection of heritage, but the new government practically destroyed it completely. First they weakened, then they terminated the Cultural Heritage Office, kicked out professionals, and clearly put economic investment interests ahead of the protection of cultural values. [[L. Simon László: What are you talking about?]] All over the country, investments have begun to destroy cultural monuments. There was no such thing as preventing Fidesz companies from getting huge orders and unhinderedly tossing and installing our built or natural heritage. Such a concrete example was the case of the castle of Győr, which the LMP also tried to draw attention to nationally. Last autumn, several billion HUF investment started in the middle of a former historic memorial building a three-storey hall garage. Mr. Secretary of State doesn't understand... [[L. Simon László: That's not why.]] The Győr Castle is located all the way downtown Győr. The LMP strongly rejects the promotion of economic and investment interests when it comes to preserving cultural heritage values. A positive development is that perhaps the government has seen the importance of this, at least they will not make it any worse. Progress has been made, but there are still serious problems. Let us first look at the positives of the bill before us. [[10.20]] The definitions of cultural heritage protection have become somewhat more precise than before. We are positive that in the future, the provision of archaeological tasks will only be carried out on the basis of an official price. Legal requirements for uniform mandatory public prices are also an important step in the opinion of professionals. It is positive that the metal-searching instrument becomes an activity that can be carried out on the basis of an official authorisation and receives stricter regulation than before. We also view as positive what concerns previous archaeological exploration of registered archaeological sites in areas affected by earthwork. We are pleased that the preparation of preliminary archaeological documentation, the SRD, will also be possible in the case of non-large investments. Does the bill also state that during the preparation of preliminary archaeological documentation? With the exceptions laid down in the legislation, testing shall be carried out, which is not part of the preventive exploration. Is the Office an institution entitled to other exploration for the provision of archaeological tasks in the framework of the preliminary archaeological documentation as defined by law and? as a sub-contractor only? may include an accredited organisation. This is also effective from a professional point of view and is also a positive development in terms of the performance of tasks. Finally, we also see a positive re-regulation of the threshold for the total cost of archaeological preparation. However, turning to the problematic parts, which is why we have very serious concerns and fears about the new legislation and the heritage protection system that it has created. The proposal states that registered archaeological sites are, by virtue of the power of this law, subject to general protection. However, under previous regulations, all archaeological sites were protected in general. The Hungarian inventory can be estimated at about 100-150 thousand sites. There are 80,000 elements related to archaeological sites in the public register. Of these, between 50 and 60 thousand may be the number of registered sites where we are sure to know their location. The remaining tens of thousands of archaeological sites have not yet been registered, but have not yet been identified. In parallel with the tightening of laws, systematic archaeological and topographic research of the country's archeological landscapes would be needed with the assistance of all institutions. And speaking of exploration, the definition of the area of archaeological interest is a preliminary archaeological documentation, one of the main objectives of the final phase based on trial exploration. If this is not possible, the exploration project plan cannot be compiled with the expected accuracy. Another serious problem could be the regulation of the relationship between exploration. Under the new legislation, there is no competition previously announced, so the only means of ensuring the effectiveness of the performance of tasks is to regulate the conclusion of the contract, for which the rule provides for 15 days. Is it possible to provide tasks outside museums with territorial and county scope? the Hungarian National Museum, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, accredited organizations? may be incorporated only as subcontractors. The sub-contracting system significantly undermines efficiency, unnecessarily increases bureaucracy and costs of this as a charge. The accreditation institution is also published in relation to archaeological exploration related to large investments. Is accreditation supposed to mean that the provision of archaeological tasks has different economic backgrounds? So museums, Academy of Sciences, universities and companies? For its task providers, a uniform minimum professional system should exist, which is a prerequisite for independent archaeological exploration. However, the emerging accreditation in its present form envisages the possibility of countless dogs. Instead of seemingly guaranteeing quality, it could actually be about questioning competence, which would allow for the involvement of other organisations and institutions. The question is what role the Minister will play in any part of the accreditation process. If not only the office, so the Forster Center, will have a role in this, then there will be countless loopholes. With regard to museum costs, museum costs should cover the costs of additional administration in relation to the provision of tasks, and therefore the argument that the costs of fees represent a significant item in museum budgets is incorrect, since these funds, even though they cover general costs, can only cover the costs necessary for the performance of the task. If a museum with county scope enters into a contract for a preventive exploration and hands over the entire task to an accredited organisation, thus providing an archaeologist with a paper-based excavation manager, then the 15 per cent of the cost of overhead costs goes to avoidable bureaucracy, thus detracting resources from professional tasks, since the subcontractors can solve the task by 15 per cent less than they had at their disposal. Respecting the priority of urban museums with territorial and county scope, where the relevant museum does not have accreditation or capacity to perform archaeological tasks, the task may be contracted by an accredited institution or organisation with the client in the shortest time. Otherwise, there are problems such as rules on costs of preventive exploration. If the costs do not include the final storage of the artifact, museums with territorial and county scope will not be able and will want to receive the material of the non-discovered sites. This could also harm the interests of heritage, the interests of the community. Returning to the issue of accreditation and exploration, we find it problematic that in many cases the role of the institution performing and controlling archaeological work is not separated. It would be worth considering that accreditation or exploration should be separated from Forster, because this is a top office, over which there is no control, only the minister in one person. Based on previous experience, LMP does not want to see the Minister in such a control role. You'd be much luckier if you did this with an organization independent of Forster. Although Forster's not supposed to be doing any explorations, the law says he can do it. It's basically that as a sub-contractor, you can recreate explorations to private companies. Thus, despite the positive changes, the bill also provides for the service of friendly emotional companies, at least maintaining that possibility. Dear House, The maintenance of cultural heritage is therefore an obligation and an interest of governments struggling with lack of resources and crisis phenomena. We see progress, but the LMP would incorporate further strict guarantees in the regulation so that the interests of large investors can finally be overcome by the natural and cultural heritage aspects. The LMP is not in favour of investors, but of culture and nature protection, but of investors, but of local communities and future generations. If the government wants to serve this goal, more important steps are needed to achieve this. Finally, I would like to say that we are very sorry that the government does not attach so much importance to this regulation, because only three working days have the opportunity to thoroughly review all this important document for Members, and only two or three from here... [[L. Simon László: What are you talking about?]] This is when the text of the law became practically known, and from here on two to three working days as an opportunity to make proposals to amend this. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-25-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This would be an opportunity for independent representatives to speak. [[No signal.]] [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; there is a possibility from here to request two-minute speeches. (No indication.) I don't see a chance for that either, so let's continue? I'd like to see an opportunity, but not a candidate. [[Defiance.]] The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[10.30]]
u2014-11-25-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The present amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage of 2001 aims to ensure that institutions of law governed by the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage operate in a more transparent and predictable legal environment, faster and under easier procedural conditions. It is of great value to the proposal to ensure consistency between economic, ownership and heritage protection. The amendment concerns the rules on the protection of archeological heritage and the protection of monuments, and commendably includes the Eger Castle in the list of national memorial sites, as well as the memorial place next to the New Monument in Craboskeresztúr in my constituency. Legislative amendments to the protection of archaeological heritage primarily change the rules for the provision of archeological tasks prior to large investments. To speed up the exploratory activity, it transforms the heritage organization system. The procedures will be less bureaucratic, simpler and faster. The Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Center is also responsible for the registration and scientific expertise of heritage conservation, as well as for certain tasks related to the Hungarian National Museum, carried out by the National Heritage Centre. The amendment creates the legal basis for this integration. The investor will be connected to the Forster Centre, so that one-stop shop, customer-friendly administration can be achieved. The Forster Centre will be responsible for the preparation of preliminary archaeological documentation, the carrying out of the trial exploration, and will propose an accredited institution entitled to carry out archaeological exploration prior to large investment. Preventive archaeological tasks related to large investments can be carried out by accredited institutions eligible for exploration, for which they will have 30 days. As the Secretary of State pointed out, pre-investment exploration should only be carried out by accredited institutions and sub-contracting organisations up to 0.35% of the amount of the investment. Ladies and gentlemen, Another important area of the law is the modification of monument protection regulations, which cover a more robust and differentiated protection of monument values and better coordination of the interests of owners and value protection. The aim is to create a dynamic and cost-effective historical management. Based on established value-finding, a protection and protection based on functional and economic sustainability, taking into account the views of the local community or the owner, will be achieved by transforming the regulation of the declaration of monuments, introducing a two-stage declaration of protection, which will also bring about harmonisation with regard to the protection of archaeological heritage. With the introduction of the registered monument value, the declaration of protection can be gradual. Only monuments can be declared after registration with a general value assessment and after a detailed and scientific assessment. A more precise definition of values also increases legal certainty. It is an important element of the bill that, through the professional services of the state, it helps the maintenance of the monuments, the owners. A further objective is to achieve facilitations with the certification of experts and expert organisations for the protection of monuments, by facilitating the eligibility of specific areas or of dying traditional technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, With the adoption of the law, it will be possible for the State to have sufficient and appropriate intervention if the preservation of the historic value becomes at risk. As a Member of the Parliament of Rákosmente and Kőbánya, I am delighted that the annex to the Act includes the extension of the regulations on national memorial sites with the addition of the New Crab Cross. Ladies and gentlemen, If you agree with the aim of ensuring a more transparent, predictable, faster and simpler procedural rule for future institutions under the protection of cultural heritage, please help with your proposals to adopt the amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak, because he came forward at the push of a button. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] Yeah. Then I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-29	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I just have a very clear question, because it wasn't all clear, and that I could be properly prepared for the closing. Where did Congresswoman Hegedűs read in the bill that museums could be maintained in the future by companies? [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Yes.]] 'Cause I just looked at it again, but I couldn't find this in it. So I would like to ask you to point out in your next speech that this has caused me some confusion. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr László Kiss said that there has been a model social consultation on the preparation of the law, with a number of forward-looking directions; thank you very much. I only wanted to recall this because Congressman Ikotity resented that he allegedly only took over the bill three days ago. Well, I don't know where the problem is right now. I think that will be decided between the opposition side, exactly how and how. In any case, it was definitely surprising to me to see that, by the way of the law on the protection of monuments and archaeology, the LMP had one thing in mind: he thought of the dog. Why is that? Honestly, I just don't understand. In essence, many loopholes are now being tried to close the law; there was no accreditation in previous regulations, for example. I think it's important. Landworks have been done by private companies before. [[L. Simon László: Who else?]] Now this will be tightened by the fact that there will be an accreditation requirement system here. Why it's wrong and evil, I honestly don't understand. So if we translate it correctly into Hungarian, then Congressman Ikotity says that there should be no accreditation, because he thinks it's sloppy. It's not a mess if you don't have one. Well, it's an interesting thought anyway, let's be honest. I think that this law, by the way, contains very good directions, not to mention that it really has and has a broad understanding of the profession. And let us not forget that in the protection of monuments, in the regulations related to this, many unviable things have been found with abundance. Let me give you a specific example, so that everyone understands what to think. About ten years ago, for example, a large building such as the main building of the University of Debrecen, which is a historic building, by the way, has been told that only the original windows, i.e. wood, can be solved. We have now come to the point that it is equally similar, but other, if you like, more suitable materials for energy management can already be used. But it couldn't have been before. Or the steam-heated radiator solution system, which is incredibly outdated, old technology, very accident-dangerous, and for a long time there have been such rigid positions that it is quite simply horrifying! So the fact that progress in the protection of monuments has been made, and it is still such a step forward, I think that this is particularly welcome and correct. In conclusion, let me just give you one more example. The integration of the East German territories from the Western German perspective from a monument conservation point of view, from a cityscape point of view, looked about as if the facade parts of an old Hanza town had to be kept on a mandatory basis, and afterwards the installation, reconstruction and construction? As you like - it was done so that it could contain the most modern technology. [[10.40]] Quite simply, the overall impact of the cityscape had to be taken into account. For example, I think that these are particularly important, that they can really be forward-looking for the protection of Hungarian monuments, and that we should not be riding on, as they did before, whether we should otherwise keep a steam-heating radiator system in the XXI. century or not, because it's obviously not lifelike. In my view, this current regulation contains good directions from this point of view, it is realistic, and it also includes a number of clarifications, both in terms of investment and related archaeological explorations, and in terms of eligible costs. I think this is also a proposal for a broader consensus. I trust you will. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support it with their vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-11-25-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, This is a professional law, and I also value the debate as a majority of professional debate, and this direction is appropriate, and I think it is right. There are professionally forward-looking parts of this law, things that have already been spoken of by opposition and pro-government speakers. Is it obvious that it's in our mutual interest? because there is no Árpád-házi village on the right and Árpád-házi village on the left, but we have a common national value - to promote this law so that as many of our memories under the protection of heritage can be properly explored, preserved and presented to the future. Therefore, I do not want to talk about the generality and the whole of the law, but about an issue that is practical, because the lead speaker of our group outlined the general picture. I propose to the members of the honourable Parliament's pro-government and opposition that there should be a common thinking in this, a kind of common thinking that really leads to a professional debate. I cannot promise that this will not be a debate, but we do not wish to bring this to a political level, but we wish to keep it on a professional level. Is this about in all likelihood? Or am I to say that you're more likely to do this than not? I would like to talk about a project that concerns our country, and it will obviously trigger very important debates for other reasons, as a result of its establishment. However, I do not want to talk about the basic function, but about your questions about heritage protection. The question is that, in all likelihood, the South Stream pipeline to be built is a project that has a very strong impact on our country, partly defining its energy economy, but please consider together that this large investment has reached our country's south-east border, and all the southern counties have crossed the border, after more than 220 kilometres, at the south-west border. In Hungarian, it is a large investment that is relatively rare, unparalleled, it does not take too much historical experience or studies to see it: in riverbeds or in areas that, according to documented sources, have been inhabited for centuries and thousands of years, it can produce objects subject to a number of heritage conservation provisions, which have been partially known or unexplored, which can be discovered by archaeology. [[L. Simon László: That's right.]] After all, it is not in a fixed place like a large factory, it is not a complex like, let us suppose, three large shopping malls, but in a very long area, I mentioned earlier, that exploration works must be carried out in a decisive bandwidth of more than 220 kilometres. Is there no doubt that since this concerns not only Hungary but also an international enterprise? Once again, I do not want to highlight the economic aspect - there are deadlines, border points, which do not even depend on the Hungarian authorities, because they concern countries from us to the southwest. And the investor is? partially familiar with the stories of your previous investments? it is not an undertaking which would be very sensitive to other aspects than those which are pre-contractually recorded. I would like to suggest that this law provides sufficient guarantees of speed and professional thoroughness, with which if the South Stream works start and run within a reasonable period of time, the Hungarian historical past, the protection of Hungarian heritage and the archaeological sites known or not known underground can be explored and preserved at an appropriate level. And since, once again, it does not depend on our country itself, and the trail is visible, known or at least known, it is worth it that when we talk about such a law as the amendment of the Law on the Protection of Heritage, we should prepare ourselves for this. What I see is that the law is generally trying for large investments? the congresswoman's speech a few minutes ago, in an accurate manner? Speeding up investment opportunities at events, primarily through bureaucratic, so-called one-stop shop, is generally true; in the case of exceptional large investment such as South Stream, I do not see this guaranteed. I would therefore like to call for a professional debate here before the Parliament, so that the law can give us a way, while there is no doubt that the investor is doing the investment in a defined, contractual manner, if possible? Since the area, the counties, and even within the counties, is known, the strip where this current will stretch - this gas pipeline should be able to be excavated in advance. Do I not see that when the construction begins, the time available and the means provided by the law are sufficient for such a long band in this long area of our country? For the third time, over 200 miles? This time is sufficient. I'm afraid it's the law? With a positive assessment of the legislator's intentions? it is not sufficient that when the Russian investment company begins to place the pipeline in the ground and do the proper work there, there is sufficient professional strength and time for Hungarian archaeology to properly explore and preserve this very significant amount of archaeological sites. Given the geographical and historical circumstances - but it is a large investment involving several rivers, several river basins, which spans seven counties - that, in general, it cannot be described in a law, but that legislation must provide a way to ensure that professional intervention before ex ante exploration can take place in such a case, since it is almost certain that from the most diverse historical ages - from ancient times to later times? there are archaeological sites that influence the Hungarian past and Hungarian history in a very important way, even decisively. [[10.50]] Since this investment must not be seen in a static place, but in its process, I fear that the kind of bureaucratic relief contained in the law is not sufficient in this case. I would like to be precise: I am not against what is in the law, because normally, I think it is the right move and the right move, but will it not be enough for the investment that is being made here? If, and suppose, that is to be done - ; I say that the subject of our Law on the Protection of Heritage should not, of course, concern economic importance or economic role, but the kind of involvement that applies to archaeology is particularly important. I do not want to be in a position as a Hungarian citizen to see that the intention of the investor and its implementation are in all respects overwriting historical, archaeological and heritage protection issues without any argument in the process of realization. To put it in a prosely way, I fear that our Árpád-ház cemeteries, the avar archaeological monuments and the Roman monuments in South-West Hungary will be plowed through in such a way that there will be no way for the government, the heritage offices, the Prime Minister's Office and the background institution to prevent this. I see no guarantee in the law to prevent this from happening, so I urge it to be like this. To sum up once again, I see the steps and thoughts in the law that are positive, which, for example, in terms of heritage conservation and archaeology, can be used in the case of an average project; in the case of a large investment and investment of a kind that is more specific, I do not see the above-mentioned conservation guarantees. I also confirm that the social consultation and the professional consultation have been carried out. This is rarely heard from the opposition, but once it has happened, it is worth saying this in the light of the professional seriousness of the debate. There is no professional unity, there is no complete unity, otherwise, to my knowledge it has never been in the past decades, and since political decision-making consists of very different people, as well as professional opinion-making, it is not to be surprised. However, I believe that the issue that I specifically addressed, whether during the parliamentary debate or during the amendment, is crucially important for the legislator and then the Parliament as a whole to provide the right conditions for Hungarian archaeology when and when we are in time. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-25-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm signaling Congressman István Ikotity? I would like to point out, Mr President - that after the speeches by Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, Mrs Hegedűs Loránt and Mr Sallai R. Benedek, I can give you a two-minute window of opportunity to speak. I am now speaking to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-35	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to respond to the speeches by the socialist MEPs before me now, because I think that while it should be appreciated that Vice-President Hiller is talking about this as a professional bill, and it would be good to keep the debate in professional terms, while he has been talking about the South Stream all along, and he predicted that once the South Stream is built, it will not remain on stone, and there will not be a single archaeological site spared by these evil people who will destroy the ancient and Roman artifacts here. I understand that you want to bring the South Stream into this debate, and soon the Russian bear will be here, but that is not what this bill is about, and don't get me wrong. In addition, I would like to commend Minister Hiller to his attention that the central body that we are now creating with this bill will not be the central body that you have created in the form of the Thanksgiving. It is not by accident that we abolished the KÖSZ in 2010, and we are still going to put its legacy in its place, and we are also going to fix what survived in some form, or the continuation of continuity, by the WOMAN, which operates under the National Museum. We considered it very important what the museum profession has consistently demanded of you to have territorial exploration rights at regional museums. With this amendment of the law, we're not taking that away. What I also said two years ago in the debate on the Museum Act, which I presented as a cultural secretary, is that we will strengthen museums with county scope, and the right to explore will remain with them, and we will do our best to ensure that not only is there the right to explore and the possibility of scientific processing, but we would like to see the finds found in the countryside in rural areas, this very strong driver's license will not be violated now, but we will make the system a one-stop shop for acceleration and effective engagement by taking into account the differences between museums, taking into account that a museum of county scope, if four discoveries take place at the same time in his county, will not be able to perform all the tasks. I understand Minister Hiller's crying back at the C.O.C. [[Dr. István Hiller: That's right!]] And you'd like to see an organization that, when building the South Stream, will manage things in its unity, but KÖSZ, we can hear and the profession can hear... Minister Hiller nods and says that he is, so Minister Hiller would like to continue to restore the CCCTB. This is where I note to my fellow Member Ikotity, that was his hotbed, and that's where you could give everything to your friends, and that's where it happened, so don't have any doubts, it's no coincidence that we ended it in 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, But let us not pass by the comment of my fellow Member, Mr Kiss. Do I always take it very seriously when a Member speaks in Parliament like that? Just as Mónika Dunai did earlier - that he is also paying attention to the problem of his own constituency and, by the way, highlights in the debate on a bill how this affects his constituency. My fellow Member Kiss says that Mr III The Roman heritage of the district is not properly exploited, and that the government should do something to this end. However, I would like to remind the Member that it is true that Mr III. The biggest problem to be solved in the district is the island of Shipyard and its fantastic value, the Hadrian's Palace. I would like to point out to the Member that the Government has discussed the concept of using the Hadrian Palace, and we will do everything we can to start exploring the Hadrian Palace in this government cycle. But to make it clear to the Member, the island of Shipyard was privatised under your government, honourable Member, it was privatised in 2003. Do I have to admit that Minister Hiller used to be? Was he then the minister in charge of the territory? did not initially contribute to the privatisation, however ÁPV Zrt. Nevertheless, he privatised the area and the letter of protest was no longer signed by Minister Hiller, as the signature of it was prevented at the last minute by Minister of State György Szilvásy. So the privatisation took place in 2003, my dear fellow Member Kiss, then I would have liked to have been so concerned about the Roman values! I would also like to quote to you the 2004 report of the SAO, the State Audit Office of Hungary, my fellow Member:. The Sziget Vagyonkezelő Kft. During its privatisation transaction, the state ownership of the Roman Hadrian's Palace of ruins on the island was not realised. The Minister for National Cultural Heritage has not given his approval for a high-risk privatisation solution for the protection of monuments. What's the matter with you? That was Secretary Hiller. [[11.00]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In addition to exploiting the findings of the on-the-spot check, we proposed to the Minister of Finance to arrange for the public ownership of the property in Sziget Vagyonkezelő Kft. of Shipyard. Please respectfully, later, much later, alive with the option, the state has bought the area back. And let us not go past the fact, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2003 the privatisation of the island of Shipyard, to be more precise, the privatisation of the governor's palace, was the cause of which the then historic department was abolished by the Socialist Government under the political pressure of György Szilvásy. A department, a professional department, has become the victim of a privatization slug that concerns your constituency, honourable Member. So what I can tell you is that III. Roman monuments in the district are not to be feared of us, we are the ones who are now going to discover and correct; we are the ones who prepared the united cadastral of the Roman monuments in the region of Limes. [[Dr. István Hiller: Laci, it's been ten years!]] And we'd like to present a world heritage announcement to UNESCO. It is you who would otherwise have let this value be lost in this way, as revealed in the State Audit Office's report. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would also suggest that we stay in the professional arena, stick to the bill, stick to archaeological exploration, do not come here. District values and South Stream, because that's clearly a misconception, let's talk about the point, what's black and white in this bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Nyitrai. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-37	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. The bill on the protection of cultural heritage before us is a very important proposal, and I am pleased that this House, the Hungarian Parliament, is on the agenda. I think that this draft legislation clearly brings a new approach; it is a well prepared material that has been absolutely agreed with the profession. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It regulates the provision of archaeological tasks prior to large investments. I think that all Hungarian Members of Parliament consider it important to keep value and value, but obviously we also need to take into account very important development policy aspects, and investment must move forward with momentum. This proposal makes regulation lifelike, taking account of archaeologists, the profession of archaeologist and development policy together. As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Eger, I consider this proposal particularly important, since the proposal is also about national memorial sites. It is a national memorial site of decisive importance in the history of the nation, which is of paramount importance in the nation's self-image, and is suitable for a place of national commemoration. Let us see what these national memorial sites are in today's Hungary! I would like to list this here in the Hungarian Parliament, and I think it is good that these national memorial sites should be presented to the Parliament as often as possible. A prominent national memorial is the building of Parliament, where we are now, and national memorial sites: Budapest, Heroes' Square; Budapest, Hungarian National Museum; Budapest, Rákoskeresztúri New cemetery 298, 300 and 301; Budapest, Castle District; Debrecen Reformed Great Church and College; Mohács, historical memorial place: Ópusztaszer, historical memorial park; Pákozd, military memorial place; Somogyvár; Kapuvar; Székesfehérvár, ruin garden; Budapest VIII., Fiumei út cemetery and Pannonhalma Bencés Főátés. This year, on February 12, 2014 we initiated the expansion of the national memorial sites, and the Eger castle should also be a national memorial place, the National Assembly will accept that the Eger Castle will become a national memorial place. After our initiative, we discussed this issue with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Dr. István Józsa: Oh, good.]] ; Mr Péter Boross, Prime Minister, President of the National Memorial and Kelelet Committee; State Secretary L. Simon László, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. I think that the Eger castle is a symbol, a symbol of standing up, a fighting spirit, patriotism and Hungarian success, a symbol of Hungarian victory. The Eger castle is also Hungary's most visited rural museum, everyone knows it; everyone knows the Egri stars, everyone has read the book, everyone has seen the film, everyone has been in the Eger castle. That is why we have initiated that it is certainly worthy of becoming a national memorial in accordance with the Parliament's decision. In the Eger castle, however, there is now a very serious renovation, and in this way this new draft legislation draws attention to the importance of this problem. At the moment, the tourist attraction of the Eger castle and fortress system is being developed in Eger, which includes the complete preservation and renovation of a multibillion-dollar renovation, the renovation of the Törökkert, the renovation of the Armory building, the renovation of the Szép-bástya. Not only renovation, but, of course, a very serious content development work will be carried out in the Eger castle, in the area of the Eger castle, in the country's most visited rural museum. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal, as a national memorial place for the castle of Eger. And, of course, I am very pleased that the Little Prisoner from Rákoskeresztúr can be included in the national memorials. I think that this is a proposal that can be supported by all Hungarian Members of Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you for your support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-38	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-25-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You did very well to mention the investment in Dream Island and the crimes of the MSZP in this regard. Too bad you forgot to add that after the investor there, Yuli Ofer, found out that he was charged with securities fraud back home in Israel, Jobbik here in Hungary? because you wanted and invested your non-covered income in Hungary? We filed a criminal report on money laundering. The Fidesz D.A.'s office wiped our report off the table and didn't order an investigation. Why? Maybe there's something in common the Fidesz and the MSZP have to wipe out together? [[L. Simon László: No!]] [[L. Simon László: No!]] I don't know, it was a question. (L. Simon László: No!) To answer the Secretary of State's question, I interpret the draft law you have tabled, and I would say that it is the current 9th. Paragraph 46 states that the cultural law is original. § 5, paragraph 6 is added and paragraph 5 of this paragraph reads:. The regional museum operates in the maintenance of a state, a local government or a company established by them. And paragraph 6 is what clarifies the powers and responsibilities. So that's what I was referring to in my comment. [[L. Simon László: I understand.]] , paragraph 6 is added and paragraph 5 of this paragraph reads:. The territorial museum operates in the maintenance of a state, a local government or a company established by them. And paragraph 6 is what clarifies the powers and responsibilities. So that's what I was referring to in my comment. (L. Simon László: I understand.) The issue of the South Stream has also been raised here, and I must address this very briefly. I think that, regardless of how this issue is judged by the various fractions of the Parliament, we, if any, support this investment, there are those who oppose it, however, I think that the issue of historic protection cannot be matched with the feasibility of the South Stream, but is not an alternative to the other. So it's a very bad thinking that the government is doing here, as I understand it. The problem that has been caused by the past 30-40-50 years, namely, that the protection of cultural heritage has always been pushed into the background, and this has always been a child that no one has cared about, cannot now be solved in a way that you think will be able to literally push the past away from a front-rowing machine in relation to various investments. We question this thinking, and we object to it. Back to my previous speech, which I could not finish in the absence of time, I would like to say the following. So, we feel that the protection of monuments and the registration and categorization of monuments will suffer very serious damage according to your proposal, and this kind of solution is that one of the original three or four categories, but basically three, will be practically highlighted, meaning that countless real estates currently in the historic category will lose their original protection, probably forever. [[11.10]] We consider this to be very dangerous, even because the justification you add is that economic and development needs are the basis for everything, in our very dangerous interpretation. You refer to the social need, but we know that in the Fidesz Orwell novel, this social need is in many cases only one investor, let's say, an offshore knight close to Fidesz, let's call it Andy Vajna's claim. I wouldn't be amazed if that was the case right now. Returning to the question of Vajdahunyadvár: yes, it came up with the question of what the fate of Vajdahunyadvár will be, if the Agriculture Museum will no longer be in it, because the Városliget project, the related law, for example, allows us to place a casino in this area, and it is obvious that an empty monument should be economically exploited by such a new change of function. You would also like to set up an incentive system for this, namely: by means of aid to increase interest. I think you've already received enough interest-enhancing support, if any, for this casino owner. So if you're thinking of that, his image and likeness of the law is shaped in this way, then it's safe to forget it and take it out of the law. But while I'm at City Park, and speaking of monument protection, the press has also published in several parts of the Városliget project that the total cost of the investment will be 140 billion forints, from which you will spend only 200 million for Regnum Marianum as a monument. That won't be enough to excavate in advance, according to our interpretation. If there is a social need for something, because you have now stated in the explanatory statement about the bill that it is basically the social need that you want to change the law to, so if there is a social need, it is a question of rebuilding Regnum Marianum. So I think that, on the basis of the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, this project could also be reviewed in this respect, even because this is a matter which, I understand, belongs to the Secretary of State. It belongs to his table how much money will be provided for this in the next year's budget, and how this element of the project will be implemented. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-25-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to reflect on a few things that have been said, and I am delighted to share my thoughts with Secretary of State L. Simon. He opposed, in particular, Mr Hiller's subtitling of the South Stream. Therefore, I will refrain from talking about this, but if I talk about road or road network improvements, new trails, it may not harm your political sense. Because it's simply the realization of regulation that is worrying. Congressman Nyitrai has told us on the basis of which aspects the regulation makes exploration more realistic. It is basically about how to reconcile these efforts with development policy. Lifelikeness in Hungary now means that there is no initiative to explore cultural heritage if there is no development for which this is immediately justified. So this lifelikeness is the problem with this, that funding research and archaeological activity is long since not guaranteed, where it cannot be put in for some development, where it cannot be made compulsory for someone to finance it, because it has practically collapsed its system. If we are talking about this draft legislation, then we also need to talk about why this is happening, what is the background that maintains the financial and institutional background to cultural heritage conservation. It is very, very difficult to overlook the experience, many of which the Secretary of State also mentioned in his reaction, when practically what the MSZP failed to do during his administration. At the same time, I am surprised to see that it is about the fact that the Maltese Convention was adopted in Hungary on 31 August 2000, at the time of the first Orbán Cabinet, the 2001 LXIV on archaeological activity and the protection of cultural heritage. Law 80/2012 was also adopted at the time of the Orbán Cabinet on the registration of all these and detailed rules for archaeological exploration. CHAPTER XII The BM regulation was also adopted at the time of the Orbán Cabinet on 8 October 2012 and this was the case at 393.2012. CHAPTER XII The government decree of the 20th of October. So all that needs to be corrected now, by the way, was born at a time of government when the Prime Minister of Hungary was called Viktor Orbán, and this is what we are trying to do. So it is certainly possible to share the Secretary of State's concerns that another party's government has made a lot of mistakes, but at the same time we cannot ignore the double standard that we are experiencing. At the beginning of his speech, I found it funny that, as long as Mónika Dunai commends the lady, how beautifully and correctly she stands up for the protection of the values of her own constituency, at the end of the same speech, Mr László Kiss will detest why Mr. He's in the district and why he's in his own precinct. [[Zsolt Nitrai: That's not what he said! ? L. Simon László: I did not say that!]] So, overall, it's this double standard that's obviously coming down. [[L. Simon László: I told you to take notes last time. No?]] So I will basically ask the Secretary of State one more thing: in his reaction, do not ask him why we do not mention positive changes, because in many cases it may be a number of clarifications and detailed rules that can make the adoption of this draft better and easier. At the same time, let me say that because of the conflict between investment and nature conservation interests, it has occurred several times in the past that there are aspects of making legislation that are also linked to the latter more flexible. In order for the Secretary of State to know what I am talking about, I say that on page 35, there is a system for the formulation of certain general objectives in which it is clearly formulated to make it more flexible. This is of concern, because when cultural heritage protection, aspects of the protection of archaeological values and an economic interest are on the same scale in Hungary, the case is very, very rare, or there is no such case when archeological and cultural heritage comes out of this as a winner. A large part of the amendments are justified by the legislative effort to complement the fundamental legal institutions of the Cultural Heritage Act with a more transparent and predictable regulation than the current one, to facilitate and speed up procedures; this is in line with the government's intention to coordinate the interests of the economy, owners and heritage protection. At the same time, Articles 36 and 40 shall apply. § 2 is quite talkative when it refers to the efficient and rapid completion of archaeological tasks in relation to large investments. Archaeological exploration of large investments will be simplified. This is when the Secretary of State has repeatedly called for a debate on professional issues, but this is what raises concerns. Congressman Pósán spoke to my fellow Member Ikotity about why the LMP sees everything. It's just the experience. If Fidesz touches a law, then there must be some interest that appears. This obviously makes our group suspicious, for which I respectfully apologize, but we certainly do not underestimate the ability of our leading politicians to hide their own business interests in a draft legislation. And for that, I respectfully apologize, but this is a sad experience. At the same time, the rules on the promotion of monuments are changing. How will you facilitate the removal of monuments? ? Obviously, it will be determined by the practice. At the same time, let me say that in recent years the possibilities for new monuments have been virtually very narrowed down, precisely because the financial background of their reservation is lacking due to the exception of the legal barriers made mandatory by the legislation mentioned earlier. Only in the lowland region, where I dealt with this, the declaration of several remaining windmills as industrial monuments was completely missed in the time of the Memorial Protection Office, because nowhere was there any assurance that any funds could be allocated to it. I therefore ask the Secretary of State with great respect that, in the event that he himself is convinced of the purity of their intentions, during the amendment of the budget law? Is that possible now? From different places, the government should take funds and make a substantial contribution to such reservations. [[11.20]] Let me also say that during archaeological explorations, I have experienced the discovery of several Kurgans, kunhaloms, which are considered ex-lege protected areas, that virtually after exploration, a complete abandonment, weeding and degradation process has started, which does not help the presentation or visitability, nor does it expressly prevent it. As long as there is no meaningful government effort to maintain these, it is only a decorative box on the coat of government legislation and cannot contribute substantially to practical presentation, dissemination and cultural heritage protection. In addition to its many positive efforts, these concerns were raised when I reviewed this draft. I would ask Mr Secretary of State that if he responds, the main aspect should not be the banging in the mud, but, for example, the 36th, 40th. In the case of § 3, what guarantees that economic interests will not appear as a primary consideration and what efficiency means in this legislation, because efficiency may be a concern that it serves how archaeological exploration can be carried out in two weeks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Pósán, Mr Vice-President,'s comment on me. I did not question the social, not the broad scientific reconciliation of this law, but that, and at the same time I need to improve myself, the text of this law was posted on Parliament's website not three days ago, but five working days ago. That's a pretty tight time. On the other hand, I would like to respond to accreditation. We didn't claim it, we even appreciated it, it's not a good thing that it's been twisted like this, that they say the opposite of what we said. In general or in summary, in relation to the law and in relation to the main speaker, I say that we have appreciated this law in many respects, but it is also important to draw your attention here to the fact that there are a number of possibilities for law enforcement and, for example, to circumvent accreditation. Thank you.
u2014-11-25-44	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nitrai in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-25-45	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek's comment made me want to speak here in two minutes. In the speech of several of our fellow Members, the constituency aspect has come to the fore, which, by the way, I think is very right, because the voters are sending us here to the Parliament to take these aspects into account in the decision-making process. You said, Congressman, that if L. Simon László, the Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, had responded to the speech with some sort of double standard, that while he would have accepted positively his speech concerning the electoral district of the pro-government representative, he would have taken a negative view of our fellow opposition on the left. This was not the case, he said for both of them that this was the right direction, to take account of the electoral district aspect. In the speech of our fellow MSZP Member, he had problems with the content of certain privatisations by the Secretary of State. But back to the original proposal, in my constituency, too? So we're gonna stick to the constituencies? I could list a number of cases in recent years where an investment was almost impossible, simply because the two aspects, archaeological aspects and development policy aspects were not sufficiently and adequately coordinated. This legislation makes the whole sector work in a lifelike way, in order to speed up the progress of investments that are otherwise very important, taking into account the interests of both sectors and professions. That is why I am in favour of this proposal, and, of course, because if we accept this, then the Eger castle can be the national memorial. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm speaking for two things. On the one hand, we were talking about details that I no longer want to respond to in the closet, and on the other hand, my fellow Member Sallai in the parliamentary dining room, in the basement, said that I should not only react in the closing room, because then there is no way to counter this, and I thought that in the spirit of chivalry we would give him the opportunity not to feel like a loser, so at least there would be a chance to say something. Not that it makes too much sense, by the way, because you didn't take my advice last time. I am always busy taking notes myself and writing down what my fellow Members are saying, so that I can respond to it, because it always quotes things from me that my fellow Member Nyitrai confirmed I didn't say. So it would be good if you took notes, and then you could quote correctly, because that is why we do not have the common basis for debate, my honourable fellow Member, as I said the last time. But I don't want to deal with what you said, because, in fact, your own argument system was self-destructive, because you closed your mind by saying that I was looking into it, and I don't know what it was. So I would ask my fellow Members to be prepared if they come here and feel that they must speak to him. As Congresswoman Hegedűs has prepared, she seems to have formulated her criticisms from paragraph to paragraph; we have something to discuss with Mrs Congresswoman, because she has raised aspects to which the government side should respond. But if you admit that you're just going to look into a bill, it's actually coming here unprepared. It is okay to sign in the catalogue, but there is no need to comment, fellow Members. And I would say to Mr Ikotity that if he were here in the debate and did not constantly walk out with Mr Schiffer, that, at the House Committee meeting, the LMPs certainly raised the question of not negotiating now, but only next week, because my Ikotity representative, as there are few of them, and he is speaking to all the laws, asks for time to read and interpret the law. Obviously, those who wrote his speech live on another continent or country, because his speech showed a level of unprofessionalism that I believe both the archaeological society and the investor side involved in archaeological work laughs at in their belly. I don't want to argue with the LMP guys anymore, because they just don't understand what's going on in front of us. What Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said, however, we need to talk about important things. One is the question of the museum, where you rightly warned me that we have opened many, many laws with this amendment, the archival law, the museum and the other laws, and indeed, there is a change, as Congresswoman said. Two things... no, I'll start from afar. I suggested two or three years ago that it may not be good that our public collections can only function in the form of budgetary bodies. It would be worth considering on the basis of some positive examples, so that cultural institutions can also operate in the form of an economic company. In order not to be frightened here, I immediately highlight two examples: one is the National Theatre and the other is the Palace of Arts. One is a public limited company and the other is a public limited company. In both cases, there are very practical reasons for operating in the form of an economic company, such as the possibility of managing the budget beyond the year, i.e. the possibility of using residual funds in the next budget year, such as the possibility of reclaiming VAT, and many more examples could be given. However, let us make it clear that we are currently bound by the Public Finance Act, and that, by the way, I cannot even say that my concept, just by suggesting, is that we should consider that a public collection can also operate in the form of an economic company, for example, in a non-profit corporate form, is not allowed by the Public Finance Act. In fact, at the time, with Mr Nasvadi State Secretary, when we amended the Public Finance Act, we had a more serious debate in our private conversation, and he said his arguments, similarly to a woman representing him, in fact he saw a kind of security guarantee that public collections were in the form of a budgetary body. But here we are talking about who can maintain an institution. In this case, when the museum with county scope indicates that the maintenance can be, in fact, narrowed down and not dilated, we do not give an opportunity, as for certain types of museums, we do not name at all who can maintain a museum. This is the museum with national scope. The law does not include who can maintain a museum with a national scope, but the tasks are so complex and the conditions of maintenance are so strict and there must be such a significant financing background that it is understandable that there is no other museum with national scope than the state. At museums with county scope, there is a concession, we say that a museum with county scope can be maintained by the municipality and by the company they founded. [[11.30]] But that's who's exercising maintenance licenses. It's not about anything else. The foundation must be completely separated from this. Madam Member, as incredible as it is, anyone can establish a museum in Hungary. Tomorrow, too, if you have a collection, you can start a museum with national scope from that collection. You can do that as a private person. Whether or not you can keep it up is another question. If you are a wealthy county citizen, you live in a county seat, and you decide to offer your private collection, not to give it to the existing museum, but to create a new museum, i.e. to establish a new museum as a private person, it does not follow that you can maintain that museum. It can only be maintained by an economic company established by the local government or by the local government. From this point of view, I consider this opening to be particularly fortunate, that it can be a background to the economic stability of an institution when it is maintained by a municipal company. But that doesn't mean that the institution is turning into an economic company! I have said all this to the congresswoman in order to address her concerns. So there is no ulterior motive behind this which the congresswoman, if I understand correctly, did not refer to, but on which she expressed her fear. Rather, our thinking is moving in the same direction. Madam President, you have raised one very important question: this is the obligation to enter into contracts within 15 days and the work of the land. With regard to earthworks, I can say to the lady representing us that for the first time, we are finally making a very clear rule on the issue of earthwork. The two types of earthwork we talked about here are very clearly separated. There is one that relates to archaeological exploration, and there is a specific other earthwork, when the road is already being completed, a stage where there is no archaeological site at all, and there is nothing to talk about. You've been visualizing a picture of the archaeologist in the bulldozer sitting next to the head of the bulldozer. Well, that's obviously not what professional supervision means, but otherwise you're not far from the truth, Congresswoman, because that's the point. Do you think we have a registered location? just to make it realistic - the registered site goes through the construction of a two - lane drive twice. That registered site needs to be explored, in the context of an ex-ante exploration, to see what's there. When the preliminary archaeological documentation is completed, first the earth workers come in, shift the soil layer, then the workers come in nicely, open up, and find out what artifacts are found in the archaeological site previously registered. If the artifact is something important, valuable, removable and to be taken out, it is removed, nicely taken into the museum and processed, and then part of it is displayed, and then the construction can continue. Or it could be something that's definitely worthy of showing on the spot, because it can't be moved. If you happen to find a Roman palace with fantastic mosaics in the construction of a highway, then in this case the decision must be made to change the trail of the road, so the road will move. For example, if you mean the archaeological park at the M3 Citizen, you know exactly what I'm talking about. And there's no such example. And there's a third case where archaeologists document it, professionally conceal it, think about archaeologists in five hundred years, and after a professional cover-up, the road can be built on it. In addition to scientific exploration, the archaeological site is highlighted, but the remains and the rest are properly buried, all of which are registered. At a professional cover-up, there's an archaeologist who says to the specialist on Caterpillar that my dear friend, you should go after the earth machine so that if there's a reason someone doesn't go here and dig it up, they can dig it up based on our documentation. I think it's right and right, and it follows the practice introduced by the profession. However, 15 days is important to frame the whole system, so that all kinds of processes that can slow down the start-up of work and then the realization of work are within a very strict framework. What I can tell you, Congresswoman, is that as many, many archaeological discoveries take place, the same characters are almost everywhere, because there is a museum on one side and some large companies on the other? which, by the way, win public procurement because no one can build a motorway in this country, thanks to God - so I don't think that after 15 days of practice, you can't conclude a contract. That contract must be concluded, Madam honourable Member, and time must not be wasted. I can say the same for the 30-day question. Congresswoman asked if 30 days would be sufficient. What I can tell you is that I want you to think about it, now that we're squashing the exploration with this law, now that we're breaking down a road construction, for example, into clearly visible sections, so we're guaranteeing that we can fit into the time constraints and even fit into the time limits. But here's another point. We have seen perfectly from the accounts of the past years, sit down with the leaders of the NIF, as a representative, go to the National Infrastructure Development Ltd., have a conversation with colleagues there, and we will see that archaeologists do work on an hourly basis. And the same people who are interested in doing great professional work and bringing wonderful things to light are not always interested in getting the job done on time, because the hourly rate is ticking, and it obviously doesn't matter how much money you make. We understand that, but we cannot afford to do so because there is an hourly fee, even weeks and months to offer an archaeological discovery, because the investment must also go on. Let us say it once and for all clearly, who are talking about the fact that economic interest and cultural interest can be confronted, they are actually damaging, because we had to draft legislation where two very important national interests prevail, not as an aspect to be played out or as a value to each other, but as a strengthening aspect. One of the national interests is that our archaeological sites are protected and our valuable artifacts come to light; the other national interest is that the planned investments in Hungary should be carried out quickly and professionally, and that the EU funds that can be used for this should be drawn to the greatest extent possible and properly accounted for. These two cannot be the opposite, honourable Member. These two important objectives are also served by the bill before us. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-25-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I do not doubt your good intentions, but at the same time I would recall the sentence I have read to you before. These are two new paragraphs, according to which it operates in the maintenance of a company. Based on these two words, two concepts appear within this one sentence. Perhaps it would be better to clarify what maintenance means and what operation means. For example, in the context of public education, these are two absolutely different stories. Not to mention that you also give this company authority. Read the following paragraph (6). That's what this is about. They give you permissions that are normally granted to an administrative body or mayor, notary or local government, otherwise only the law can grant to the Ket. According to him. [[L. Simon László: Which paragraph should I read?]] paragraph 1a! That's what this is about. They give you permissions that are normally granted to an administrative body or mayor, notary or local government, otherwise only the law can grant to the Ket. According to him. (L. Simon László: Which paragraph should I read?) [[Laughing:]] Please respectfully, I'll read it again. Mr. Secretary, I have tried to interpret the bill you have tabled for you more than once. Article 9 I'm talking about Section 46, which is the original. Paragraph 5 and 6 respectively. Returning to 15 days: it may be enough for one hour to enter into a contract anyway, but we do not think that the content of the contract can be settled and defined. By the way, while we're at it, let me tell you one more thing very quickly in 30 seconds. By the way, cultural heritage protection. In the National Property Act, national assets that are of particular importance for the national economy to date, Mr State Secretary, are listed in Annex 2, Annex II. In paragraph 2 (d) and (c), the flame of the revolution in Kossuth Square is a monument. Please tell me, where is this monument to the flames of the revolution? ! If you've made it legal to keep it in national memory, then where is it? Where'd he go? Thank you very much. [[L. Simon László: We'll be more specific, Congresswoman.]]
u2014-11-25-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Since there are no two-minute speakers, we will continue with the speeches by Members who have signed up in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. [[11.40]]
u2014-11-25-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When you responded to my fellow Member Sallai, Mr Secretary, I had a feeling that arguing with you was like playing chess with a pigeon. He knocks up the signs, he jumps on the puppets, he picks up the puppets, he jumps in the end, he's drunk, he's hurrah, I'm winning, I'm hurrah, I'm winning. [[L. Simon László: You should write poetry too.]] I think it's quite unjustified the kind of arrogance and the kind of pride you've been responding to opposition issues in the last hour. I've tried, perhaps a little naively, to read from this bill that you've been talking about, to appreciate positively the intentions you've been talking about. But I think that the kind of reaction that we have seen here, on your part, makes clear what my fellow Member Hiller was talking about, that the words that you have said are, in my opinion, the otherwise eligible directions that you have spoken of, nothing more than a mere word, and, in fact, this bill, as so many others, is just another proof of your sanda's intentions. However, I'm glad that once we're done with the III. The district was mentioned because I would like to ask that, in the context of the island of Shipyard, it is certainly good for you to be informed, Mr Secretary of State, not only about the one article you have read, but also about this island in general. For example, I can recommend my own post-meeting comment on this issue at the beginning of the cycle. This is also important for you to see that from the 24 years that have passed since the change of regime, you have pretty much wasted the 8 that is important in the development of the island. If we are just talking about the damage caused by the privatisation attempts between 1991 and 99 in relation to the island of Shipyard [[L. Simon László: Discuss with Szilvasy.]] Well, then, it's just a timeline that shows that in this time frame there were two right-wing governments and a left-wing government in power. That's exactly how pointless it is to have the kind of past that you're doing. For in this matter, the critical remarks may be equally appropriate for you, as for the MSZP. For this reason, as a representative of Óbuda, I do not expect you to open up different historical perspectives on who has ruined the settlement of the island more, because I can tell you that there have been indications of this in your past eight years. [[L. Simon László: You sold it!]] As did the previous governments, they did not always have excellent results. I also expect you as a representative of the district to settle the fate of this island. I myself will be happy when this is achieved, even if you do so, because I think that even you can do good things. In fact, I hope that the III. They're gonna do good things about the district. Of which, however, the III. I would like to see reassuring reactions, not necessarily now, once again, I would be satisfied, Mr Secretary, if you didn't answer anything, you would just do these things. After all, what I have been talking about is that the renovation of the Gas Factory is still not happening, while the gas plant itself has managed to renovate, the Gas Factory residence has not been restored to this day, the residents are in an unworthy position, living in unworthy conditions in all respects. That's the way it is to this day. To be honest, I don't care how much your fault and how much someone else's have done in the last 24 years, of which you've governed in 8 years. What I'm interested in is that these processes that can begin in this can be realized. If what you are talking about is true, then it should not be an arrogant response, but it should be said that, yes, Congressman, it is indeed our intention to achieve a positive improvement in this. The situation is similar to the two amphitheatres in the Óbuda area, the urban and military town amphitheaters. Perhaps you do not know, Mr State Secretary, so I tell you that in Central Europe there are no precedents for having two amphitheaters in a settlement. Compared to this, the urban amphitheater is still unused. Despite the fact that the staff of the Aquincum Museum have made a number of suggestions on how to make use of it, this amphitheater has been unused. And even though it's unexploited, it's right next to the new railway line in Esztergom. This is only interesting, because if what you have been talking about is that the essence of the new concept of government is that investment and culture should meet with each other, for example in connection with the urban amphitheatre or, for example, with the request of the Museum of Aquincum, that the reconstruction of the railway in Esztergom should meet with the possibility that this museum might be a little in the picture, then these would not be ideas, but initiatives that could be realized. If what you said was true, Mr Secretary, is that this is your concept, then I would ask that both values, the Aquincum Museum and the cultural exploitation of the urban amphitheater be taken seriously. Similarly, the situation of the amphitheater in the military city, which, I do not know, does not know, is the Secretary of State, so I would like to say that this is one of the largest amphitheaters in Europe. This is the amphitheatre, the arena of which is even larger than the Colosseum, which, by the way, is simply because the cohors of the city militia practiced here, and that is why they had to build so much. At this moment there is no museum in this amphitheatre, this amphitheater is currently not recycling cultural values, which is important for Obuda and the nation, but for the students of Árpád High School to hold their proms there, otherwise I think they use it very correctly and as a dog runner. However, I think that we can both agree that the use of this cultural value as a dog runner is not a non-plus ultra of culture. Therefore, I can say in any case that Mr III. As a district representative, I am open in every direction that is about making use of the cultural values here. [[L. Simon László: No campaign, talk about the bill!]] And in case I actually get some comforting answers in this one, I'm sure I'll be happy. The problem is that the sentences you've spoken about, the direction of this bill, those intentions, I even doubt that there are real intentions, they're nothing else, they're just a cover-up of the shady intentions that you have on the bill. I ask you to take better account of what my fellow Member Sallai or my fellow Member Hiller said, and in the event that I say again, if these directions are taken into account, obviously the MSZP's response will also be more positive. But in the event that such an expression of arrogance continues, we see only the evidence in this, Mr. Secretary of State, that, indeed, the intentions that we are afraid of, what is really going on here, are the intentions behind the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-25-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I would like to appeal to Congressman L. Simon László, Secretary of State. I do not agree with Mr State Secretary on many things, but I do appreciate that Mr State Secretary, unlike other State Secretarys' customs, is taking part in Parliament's debate. We have repeatedly stressed that there is an opportunity for the representative of the government to get involved in the debate, and many times the State Secretarys of State sit silently throughout the debate in order to pass the whole debate as soon as possible, they are not actively involved. However, it would be important for the government side to express its views, where appropriate. That is why my appreciation is for the Secretary of State, because he is taking an active part in the debate. [[L. Simon László: Thank you very much.]] What I do not agree with is that some groups, I believe, were concerned with the LMPs, en bloc, as is the case, considered professionally incompetent, I think it is unfortunate. For example, what I do not agree with in this bill is that, for example, the bill provides 10 days to carry out mechanical earthwork in the exploration process. Secretary of State, that's very little. You are aware that what the machine can do to begin the exploration is that by then it will be many times past several days, it may be running out of 10 days, because simply those who own the machine do not have a noble simplicity, because, let's say, they do something else. I also think it is very important to say that this bill concerns deep construction enterprises, at least mainly at this reading. The main problem for companies working in deep construction is not that they run into archaeological sites or, where appropriate, they find monuments that are justified in every respect. The problem for them is that there is no project management in Hungary, which would phase out the workflow. [[11.50]] What I mean by this is that in Western Europe, in the developed parts of the world, project managers' organisations operate using corporate governance systems that allow, for example, if there is something involved, for example, a deep construction undertaking that is important to have archaeologists examine it and determine whether this historic structure is now worth exploring, then, if they decide to do so, it is easier to go to the next stage because decision-makers are thinking in engineering class, in river meters and in cubic meters. By the way, this is why it is not possible to regularly overpriced and overpriced an already awarded public procurement in Western Europe, because performance is measured in an exact manner. There is also a professional organization in Hungary, called the Project Management Association, who regularly open these work processes, stressing the need for this method of work. Unfortunately, we did not gain space in Hungary in this respect. Which is a problem here, which, for example, is mentioned by the Secretary of State as an example of the fact that archaeologists work for an hourly fee and, where appropriate, the archaeologist is interested in continuing to explore as much as possible, as this is how he receives his salary. Tell me, who pays for the archaeologist, who exercises professional control over him? Well, the government is practically through its different offices. [[L. Simon László: No!]] through the public agencies, which manage from budgetary sources, and in practice you cannot use a rather short leash on this issue. Obviously, it would be your job to resolve this issue. [[L. Simon László: Now let's work this out.]] It was interesting to me what Mr Nyitrai mentioned about the exploration of the castle in Eger and the reconstruction of the castle in Eger. I visited Eger last year, by the way. It was very sad for me to see other monuments, especially Western European monuments, which I saw there. A lot of times I met the footprint of the Socreal inside the castle, many times I met plastic tents, which were unworthy of the Eger castle, and the environment that surrounded the castle, or I could even think of Eger's pedestrian street, was practically ruined, and quite simply unworthy of what would otherwise be preserved there as an inheritance. I also think it is important to say that, while Mr Secretary of State is sitting here and we have the opportunity to have a professional debate with him, that the government has not dealt with a lot of things regarding the protection of monuments and the preservation of the values of monuments. For example, I think we should think about, say, another castle, the Buda Castle. One of the most valuable building sites in the capital and the country is currently in Clark Ádám Square, in an absolute historic environment. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] On the way up to the Castle, for example, a real estate investor named Noah Steinberg bought this landmark, and he would like to build an office building to do so that doesn't correspond to the least of its appearance, its contents, to the wishes that such an environment would deserve. Here I would like to stress, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, that Noah Steinberg is not the person of origin? Don't give me God before someone fantasies? It motivates these lines, but it is that we want to preserve these historic environments as the government does not seem to want them to be, because it does not ensure in architectural regulations that this work is actually carried out as it should be. [[L. Simon László: I don't know what you're talking about.]] I also think it is very important to say that there has been an example that the investor himself has decided to increase the value of the investment he has made by providing for the protection of these values, but in the case of civil engineering works, the person who is carrying out the particular section of the road and, where appropriate, stumbles into monuments, and the discovery reveals that there is a value there that should be preserved in posterity, he is not interested in it, but in curing this monument as soon as possible, so that the work can continue. Unfortunately, it is now quite clear, Mr State Secretary, that the government has sided with these private capital companies, in contrast to culture and the preservation of values. So I thought it was extremely important to say this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches. ? Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-25-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2014-11-25-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to reflect on the kind remarks made by Secretary of State L. Simon. I would like to start by saying that you have offended us here, that I have not looked at the legislation thoroughly. I suggest that you recognize, during your study of house rules, the obligation not to continue the detailed debates here. So the specific way in which legislation should be adopted was not where I was supposed to be. So you're asking me to do something that's regulated by a house rule that you've agreed to. So this is your first time. [[L. Simon László: There is a general debate now.]] And second of all, you said that I wrote it down literally, as you expected the catalogue to be signed, that's why we're sitting in there. I would like to remind you that the catalogue has to be signed, in terms of four fifths of the LMP fraction, seven people from Fidesz are in there. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Seven people are in there, so with this 4-5% participation, I probably wouldn't be making noise as a fidesz Member to expect others to participate in the debate and how they can be active. [[L. Simon László: Good speech!]] So, overall, I would like to thank you specifically for your participation in the debate, and we are not used to this from you, we are used to closings, and I really appreciate that, and I am particularly honored that you have done so. At the same time, let me respond so much, Mr Nitrai said that these systems should be made more efficient because of how EU development resources are being used and what limits are being imposed. That's how they betray themselves. It is not the cultural heritage that matters to you, but how EU funds are to be drawn, how they can deliver it as quickly as possible. And speaking of which, obviously, I'd like to ask you how the efficiency of the Castle Garden Bazaar, for example, worked. So you can hand over the same thing more than once? Or what happened there, how will a similar incident help? So I wanted to reflect on the fact that from a different perspective, we might see the same thing differently. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause from the benches of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2014-11-25-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-57	Mr President, We're not in a hurry. I'm gonna be the author of the next two laws, so we're gonna waste my time. [[Defiance.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my fellow Member Sallai has now earned the title of the master of clever retorts. Congratulations, Congressman, and I wish you good luck with your literary work. It was very nice. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Thank you.]] I would suggest to Mr Schiffer that Mr Schiffer, who is then the greatest expert on house rules, should discuss the distinction between general and detailed debate, to understand that there is now a general debate and what we are talking about, and why a Member should be prepared for the general debate, and to explain to you what the detailed debate is about, what the difference between general and detailed debate is, because if you knew that, you would not have said this now. If you hadn't just gone out there while I was talking to you, you would have heard why it was important that we could reconcile two national interests, both of which are important. I was talking here, Mr Congressman, while you were out in the hallway, about the need to reconcile archaeological aspects and investment aspects. Congressman, if this bill had not taken into account archaeological aspects, archaeological organisations would have protested against it. But once again, we have been through a series of negotiations where all the relevant professional organisations have expressed their views, suggestions that the government has been able to accept, we have incorporated into the bill. Minister Hiller has just made it very clear that there is no case in which a full consensus can be reached. The point is that the opinion of the profession, at least in which the majority of the profession agrees, should appear. It is included in this bill, the profession is satisfied with this, and the profession has no problem with 15 days and 10 days and 30 days, because they know the exploration process and the investor process that you obviously do not know, because they are stuck in a part of it that is, moreover, the most thoughtful, negotiated, developed parts of the legislative proposal, so behind it there is maximum professional consensus. To the Castle Garden Bazaar, I can tell you, Congressman, you can iron me, this is a perfectly legitimate parliamentary genre. But what I can tell you is to show you another large-scale investment in Europe, where we spent more than HUF 10 billion, and in less than two years a ruinous historic building was renovated not only completely, but also behind it... [[Intercoms and information from the LMP and Jobbik benches. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't hand it over three times, twice. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Twice, and first the old building, and second the new buildings. If you show me another one of these in Europe, I'll lift my hat. But thanks to God, there's a difference between you criticizing me and us creating you. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[12.00]]
u2014-11-25-58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a two-minute speech.
u2014-11-25-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honestly, was it quite amazing when János Volner said that in the case of archaeologists? Since they're being paid by the state? The state will immediately determine their working time and other things as it pleases. From now on, do we get to tell the doctors how many minutes to operate or how many minutes to stand with the patient? This is simply nonsense, incomprehensible from a professional point of view. If he were like that, I think John Volner would be the first to be so outraged. So the normal thing is that there are certain timeframes that have been set out in an agreed manner with professional organisations, and obviously the reason for all the work that should be done is because it is more or less feasible in such time frames. So I don't see anything at all. And to Mr Ikotity's previous remark, let me note that he said five working days, that is all that was available. The whole law? For reasons, all of them? 46 pages, that's 9.5 pages per day. For the record, in a high school, a student is forced to read several pages for the next day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2014-11-25-61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Dear House, In conclusion, I can say that we were actually involved in an interesting debate. This debate has been strictly technical, there have been acts of policy going beyond the bill, and there have been personal parts, but I also appreciate the debate positively, and thank you very much for the activities of my fellow Members. In fact, Mr Fisherman has confirmed the government's intention, thank you for that. It is clear that the lead speaker of Fidesz has been engaged in cultural policy for many years, and has also been the head of the area as State Secretary. Thank you for your competent thoughts. In fact, Mr Kiss, as he said in his last speech, he destroyed his previous speech as a keynote speaker, because in his speech he talked about many, many positive things, and basically about the eligibility of the bill. If you hadn't started messing around at the end of the day and talked about all sorts of things, I think the Socialist faction would have been able to end today with a particularly worthy comment. At the same time, I would like to thank Mr Kiss for his activity and respond to some specific fears he expressed, which he does not want to hear, of course, because he is going out of the room in accordance with his custom when I say a closing word. On the one hand, your question was that, first of all, the Member said that, according to the bill, we now want to set up the Forster Centre. I would like to inform the Member that the Forster Centre does not need to be established, it is an existing centre, the successor of the former Cultural Heritage Office, and it has been operating under that name for two years. So I do not understand what the Member has referred to, but the pervasive knowledge of the heritage institution system is not a mandatory task for Members. The congressman asked whether the Forster Centre wanted to cooperate with the researchers of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and in what form it would like to do so. Well, it's a daily practice, so it's still a daily reality today, but obviously, someone who doesn't know that there's this center and the establishment of a vision here doesn't know what a daily practice is. In addition, the colour of the Hungarian heritage team works at the Forster Centre at the moment, so since the Forster Centre is one of the most important scientific and cultural institutions in this area, it is completely incomprehensible to count professionalism on it. It is as if at the Academy of Sciences, let us say, our fellow Member Kiss is talking about his request for, or lack of, scientific aspects. At the same time, I must say that the Forster Center has a living relationship with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Archaeology Research Institute, a living relationship with the Institute of Art History, and has a living relationship with all the important university faculties where art history and archaeological education are conducted, and professional reconstruction comes from these institutions. So what the congressman has asked me here, I must reassure you, the cooperation is continuous, efficient and valuable. He asked for the establishment of a technical advisory board on behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Kiss. I would like to point out that the archaeological committee is also operating in the current legislative context. The Archeological Committee was the expert body of the Minister responsible for the region, and until now István Gedai, the retired director general of the Hungarian National Museum, was the head of the archaeological committee, who is also an excellent archaeologist and numismatic. I guess I don't have to talk about Professor Gedai anymore, because he's one of the most respected authorities in this country. Professor Gedai has just requested that the committee be dismissed from office as chairman, since he is old and retired for a very long time, he cannot carry on his duties. In his place, I suggested to the Minister that Zsidi Paula, an excellent archaeologist of the Budapest Historical Museum, be one of the most respected experts in this country. I could reassure Congressman Kiss that if he were here, that the technical advisory board he requested was the existing body. The 30-day time limit has also been raised by Mr Kiss, which I will not mention again. The next point is that in the centralised system the professional aspect is lost. It seems that there was no consultation within the Socialist Group, because Congressman Hiller, who didn't listen to Mr Kiss, didn't, but came later and said his own words, and talked about the need to be more centralized, and even wept back on the former KÖSZ, the KÖSZ he created, and said that if we didn't centralize more, for example, the archaeological works of the South Stream couldn't be carried out properly. Now, what is the official socialist position: the opinion of the former minister is that it should be more centralized, or the opinion of the lead speaker, Mr Kiss, who is obviously not a professional and has never been involved in professional management? That means we're over-centralizing. So there's some confusion here, and it would be nice for the socialists to clear up their misunderstanding. I would like to thank Mrs Loránt Hegedűs once again for her preparation. Although we disagree on many, many issues, and there are obviously parts of the legislation that I think the Member is misinterpreting, and there are parts of the legislation that will be opened by the regulations, but overall, I think that the activity of the Member woman has been very useful. At the same time, the Member said that there was a concern that certain elements, such as accreditation, should be clarified in regulations. I think it is very important, Congresswoman, that we do not tie our hands by having to correct each part of it by means of a legislative amendment. I always say: it is not a mistake for a government to correct you in the knowledge of experience or after collecting experience. Accreditation will be a new system, the parts of accreditation should not be recorded in the highest level of legislation, which is what government regulations are for. But I do reassure the congresswoman, during the professional discussions, we also discussed the conditions for accreditation as to who accredited museums might be. By the way, the basic question here is not who they may be, but which museums will not be able to meet these conditions, since, let us say, there is a museum, honourable Member, where there is not a single archaeologist employed. Obviously, a museum that does not have its own archaeologist, will not want to do archaeological exploration work, or, if it has such ambitions, will not be able to meet accreditation criteria. These conditions are clear and fair, and they are already partly known by the profession in its main lines, and I have said these aspects in my expo, Congresswoman, what the aspects of accreditation will be. We were talking about the museum corporate issue. Borrowing: the congresswoman mentioned the rental of artifacts. [[12.10]] Since the Cultural Heritage Act affects a lot of other areas? I have focused on two large areas in my expo: archeology and the declaration of monuments, the area of conservation of monuments - I have not mentioned such minor changes, but this amendment is very important, and I think this is clarification for legal certainty and protection of artworks. Consider a lifelike example. A large museum in the countryside borrows something from the Museum of Fine Arts for a temporary exhibition, so you can do it without any problems, the minister agrees, take the artifact, set it up, present it. An example of this is the presentation of the Seuso treasures in Székesfehérvár, which was already a record of visitors at the Székesfehérvár Szent István Király Museum. However, if, for a private collection, a private or private institution, or a privately owned property, the owner borrows an artifact from the State, then there, in order to ensure that the artifact is safe or that there are sufficient guarantees, we considered it justified to introduce the financial collateral. I believe that it is in the interest of the State and does not, by the way, limit the possibility that the amendment that I tabled earlier and that tabled by Congressman Gyimesi created so that artifacts can be lent so that they do not become dusty in warehouses. It was not quite clear to me in the Member's speech that she welcomed or objected to this passage. [[For signal:]] He said hello. Well, then, there's no debate between us on this matter, then. The past must be completely covered. ? In the debate two years ago, I have also responded to this remark by the Congresswoman, if I recall correctly. Anyway, I don't want to talk about the cover-up again. I just told you what the essence of the institution of concealment is. In addition, the introduction of the Institute of Location Coverage was unanimously welcomed by the archeological profession. This is a matter formulated on professional request, and it has very serious international practice. I would suggest to my fellow politicians that, if they speak on certain technical aspects, they should consult experts first, so that it is not, by the way, that we are hit for something that we are, by the way, putting into a law at the request of the profession. I can also say the same thing about previous archaeological exploration and preliminary archaeological documentation, which was introduced at the time of the amendment two years ago, and is very successful. The profession is also very good, and the investor side also sees the values and positives of this. I do not want to get my fellow Member Ikotity's speech out again. The introductory idea that Fidesz's nearby entrepreneurs have destroyed values and built up protected areas in connection with such a large and detailed law amendment is that I cannot categorize that. That's just disappointing. This is no way to hold a professional debate. Let's go out there and hold a press conference and polish spectacular, big horse-zungs, but let's try to talk about the law here in the general debate, and not say such crazy things. Especially not a government that has done a series of things from the Academy of Music to the Várbazaar, a government that launches a castle program for $40 billion. So, no, no! It's just really unworthy! I can say, Mr President, that you are unworthy, and you have been able to speak at a higher level in Parliament. The same with accreditation; instead of thinking about it, you would call at least an archaeologist or a museum director or go to the Forster Center. You will be welcome at the Forster Center, President Sághi will certainly have a friendly conversation with you. But the first thought you have about accreditation is that it's sloppy, and I don't know what to say. I'm sorry, you're the one who's getting out of control, and unfortunately, there's something paranoia that's completely absurd. With regard to accreditation, the Member asked whether the Office or the Minister would be accredited. The office! But here's the reason for the law. I understand that you didn't have time to read it in five days, but it is quite clear how this will work, and I can tell the Member to wait for the government regulations. This law must be adopted first, put into effect, and then the necessary regulations will be published. I thank Mrs Mónika Dunai for her speech, as I thank my fellow Member Pósán for several adjustments. He's always helping me at work, by the way, because he's gonna answer me for some bullshit that I don't need. I can tell Mr Nyitrai that the government, listening to the request of the Egerians, is going to raise or increase the Eger castle to the list of national memorial sites. Does the congressman know? I've been to the Eger Castle at least ten times in the past four years, I've watched it, and, by the way, like my fellow Member Volner, I've had some sad experiences, which are now, thank God, Mayor Habis? With the help of my fellow Member from Nitra? He's barely turning me around. The government paid for this intention and this activity by providing hundreds of millions of forints of support and transferring hundreds of millions of forints from EU funds to continue the reconstruction of the Eger Castle. There is a great deal of work going on at the moment in the Eger Castle, which, by the way, wants to correct this failed work, which my fellow Member Volner rightly raised, that, indeed, during the period of socialism, the monumentists did not touch the Eger Castle with the same eyes and intentions, which today, say, would be appreciated and acceptable in the case of modern monument protection. As an example, I mention the reconstruction of the Castle of Diósgyőr, which I know many people disagree with, but this, believe me, is a success story. If you think that one of the great international press sensations of the past few weeks has been raised in Rome, from both political and heritage sides, to make the Colosseum partially fit and otherwise spectacular, this is in the same direction as in our case the reconstruction of the Castle of Diósgyőr. We want Hungary's most visited rural museum, the Eger Castle, the Dobó Castle Museum, many young and old people who have read the Egri stars and reported a lifelong experience to them, to find a suitable environment in the Eger Castle, and I now see opportunities and guarantees. I can tell my colleague Volner that he must go to Eger now. They handed over downtown rehabilitation. With the support of this government, it is important to see what Mr Nyitrai, Mr. Mayor Habis, has done in Eger and to see how beautifully the downtown of Eger has been renewed and how this work continues, my fellow Members. Overall, I can say that the set aside of the South Stream and the personalizing moments, if we no longer deal with them, the current general debate has been successful, and the opposition also seems to agree with the bill in its main lines, which I am pleased to do; and thank you very much for my fellow Members for supporting our work in an active debate. I ask you once again to support the adoption of the law with your votes. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-62	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to construction and spatial planning will follow until closure. The submission is T/2078. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before you, very, very fortunately, after the previous bill, shows that the government's intention to reorganize and rethink the Ministry's structure was sensible in such a way as not only to unite the area of historic protection and heritage protection, and to place it under the direction of a ministry, but also to solve the supervision and management of construction tasks within the same Ministry. The fact that at the moment the Deputy State Secretary for Heritage and Architecture is working side by side in symbiosis at the Prime Minister's Office is a guarantee that we are not only interested in preserving the values of the past, but also in creating a built environment that can bring value to the future generation. Looking from the past to the future, from our traditions in an innovative way to the times ahead, it could be a symbol of the whole government work. [[12.20]] The current legislative amendment basically includes amendments to five laws, mainly clarifications, clarifications that serve and assist local development planning. The fundamental purpose of the amendment is to make the rules of the law that install certain municipalities more applicable. So, if you like, we also want to make the lives of the municipalities and the offices easier with this legislative package. The proposal sets an important objective of creating conditions for better regulation, creating a predictable legal environment for citizens. First of all, let us see which five laws we intend to amend with this bill. The first is the 1995 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment. Law. Here the new regulation simplifies the previous regulation, reducing the administrative burden on businesses. This is in line with the government's intention to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and entrepreneurs in all areas of our daily lives. The limitation and conditionality of the start and continuation of the activities of investment developers and construction management experts will be abolished. The exercise of investment costs and building management expert activities will not be subject to eligibility in the future and the continuation of investment costs may be carried out without notification. Building administrative expertise can be pursued without authorisation, thereby reducing the administrative burden on professionals. The proposal will address the problems raised by the European Union; this is the meeting of the European Parliament and the Council in Brussels. I am thinking of the rules of Community Directive No 1. In fact, in the future, investment management activities, as a cross-border service, will continue unannounced, so this is an important moment for our existence in the European Union. The amendment also clarifies the responsibilities of the builder. The contractor's responsibility will be excluded from the obligation to initiate construction work and to notify any changes related thereto to the construction monitoring authority, as the rules of the official procedures relating to the start of construction work have changed with the end of the notification. As a result of the foregoing, the building supervisor's responsibilities are added to the recognition of the building supervisor. The possibility of submitting an application by electronic means will be increased, so it will be possible to launch an electronic case not only in the case of the building authority, but also in the case of the building inspection authority; I think this does not require any particular explanation on our part. In addition, a circle bound to the registration in the real estate register shall be subject to a final and enforceable obligation established by the building monitoring authority, since, as a result of the division of tasks of the building and building inspection authorities, the exploration of irregular construction activities and the taking of the necessary measures in this respect shall be subject to the construction monitoring authority. In order to ensure a clear application of the law and to avoid misuse of the provision, we are amending the rule on the elimination of the threat to hazardous constructions, construction structures and illegal construction activities, with the exception of the imposition of a civil engineering fine only covering construction activities to the extent necessary to remedy the risks. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also noted that the concept of urban development, the integrated strategy for the development of settlements and the public reporting required for the preparation of settlement planning instruments, and the public administration does not charge a fee for opinion in the opinion process. I think that this is also a very important step in the reform of the state, it is unnecessary for the state to put money from one pocket to another, and this alone constitutes an additional administrative burden. This provision should, as I mentioned, be extended to include the concept of urban development and the integrated urban development strategy. The urgency is justified by helping to plan 157 walking chairs and the metropolitan district. The other law that we are amending with today's proposal is the adoption of the spatial planning plan of the Balaton priority resort area and the 2000 CXII on the establishment of the Balaton spatial planning rules. Law. In 2008, the Balaton Act obliges the 14 newly-joined settlements to prepare and review their settlements by 1 December 2014 and bring them into line with the Balaton priority resort spatial planning plan. It is important to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the size and financial possibilities of the settlements are very limited. The government was able to grant aid to seven municipalities in the four-year period initially set for the design of the plan resulting from its statutory obligation. As a result, seven other small settlements could not prepare or start planning in time without their own resources, but only from the second half of 2013. For this reason, in 2013 the Parliament amended the deadline for six years, which expires on 1 December 2014. Did the last seven municipalities receive it from the end of 2013? in pre-financing form? the aid for the modification of their means of settlement. The planning started in all seven settlements, but due to the delay in the planning-related negotiations, four settlements indicated this autumn that they could not accept the prepared or revised settlements' arrangements until the deadline laid down in the law, and asked for a treaty amendment. However, the condition for the use of State aid is that the municipalities concerned fulfil their obligations within the time limits laid down by law and should therefore be resolved within seven years of their accession to the priority resort area. Thus, the bill states that they have to adopt their means of settlement by 1 December 2015. Thus, the aid contracts will continue to be amended and it will be avoided that the disadvantaged municipalities will be forced to repay the unused part of the aid amount. I believe that this will be a part of the bill that will be welcomed by my fellow opposition Members. The third law that we are amending in this package is XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan. amendment of the law. During the 2013 amendment of the Act, the conditions for sectoral data reporting were established for the landscape protection zone, and were the two-tiered on the basis of professional considerations? National and regional? We introduce landscape protection and a new, more professionally limited national landscape protection zone in the law, which protects landscapes and landscape values. During the 2013 amendment, the name and definition of the zone were also changed. The priority area and zone regulation for landscape protection has also been modified, keeping the content of the previous regulation, complementing the requirements for the construction of settlement facilities. I would like to note quietly how good it would be for my fellow Member Volner to be here, because the problem he has just raised does not belong to the Law on the Protection of Heritage or only part of the Law on the Protection of Heritage, it must be dealt with in these rules, and thanks to God, the government does so properly. The above provision of the 2013 amendment of the Act, i.e. the zone itself and its regulatory content, would enter into force on 30 December 2014. This amendment of the Act further clarifies, differentiates and simplifies the rule of the area, zone, that will be treated as a priority for landscape protection, which will enter into force on 30 December 2014, by limiting the scope of territorial bodies, since the rule only applies to priority regional and county spatial planning plans. This rule should not apply to territorial development concepts and territorial development programmes covered by territorial plans. The amendment, my fellow Members, also clarifies the tasks to be carried out, adapting to the type and scale of the plans. I'm not going to give you these details right now. The bill clearly shows. The amendment only provides for the above tasks in the case of a settlement planning instrument which is prepared for the entire administrative area of the municipality, as there is no possibility of defining more extensive, uniform landscape areas in the settlement of smaller settlements. The fourth law that we are amending with the proposal before you is the 2005 LXIV on the plan for spatial planning of the agglomeration in Budapest. Law. The law is 22. In the case of the capital until 30 June 2014, in the case of the metropolitan districts and the municipalities subject to the law, paragraph 2 requires the alignment of their settlement arrangements with the law amended in 2011. [[12.30]] In the case of the capital until 30 June 2014, in the case of the metropolitan districts and the municipalities governed by the law, it provides until 31 December 2015 to bring their settlement arrangements into line with the law amended in 2011.(12.30) Since some of the capital and agglomeration settlements have not been brought into line with the law for the stated deadline, the bill therefore sets a new deadline for bringing them into line, similar to the Balaton example. The agglomeration Act is the XXVI of 2003 on the national spatial planning plan. Act Complementary, which means that settlements must take into account the requirements of both laws when preparing their means of settlement planning. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, we are also performing some harmonisation tasks, which I am not going to describe in detail; I think, from the justification of the law, this has become clear to everyone. And the fifth law, which we are amending with today's package of laws, is the 2013 CCXXIX on the amendment of individual laws in relation to spatial planning. Law. This is just a very simple clarification, where we are actually clarifying the legislation in line with the amendment of the law described above. So this is a technical amendment where we simplify the norm. Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that there is a bill on your table that is adapted to state reform. I am sure that not only will this legislative package be welcomed by the construction and architectural profession, but also by the municipalities, municipal offices, county and district government offices, as it serves to simplify the state and reduce administrative burdens. Thank you very much for your attention and for your vote in favour of this bill. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-64	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-25-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In mid-November, the Government presented the proposal that we have just discussed, which aims to amend a number of construction and spatial planning laws. The draft allows for better application of the rules of the law on the deployment of tasks for certain municipalities. Its objective is to clarify legislation and to assist urban development planning. I would like to highlight a few things from the proposal. The bill supports government measures aimed at reducing the administrative burden on businesses by amending the Law on the formation and protection of the built environment, given that the continuation of investment management activities can be continued without notification and that the administrative expertise in the construction sector can be carried out without authorisation. As a result of this division of duties, the detection of irregular construction activities and the taking of the necessary measures are subject to the construction monitoring authority. The previously adopted Balaton zoning rules require that the existing settlement arrangements of the 22 settlements that have newly joined the most important resort area of Lake Balaton should be reviewed and amended within four years of accession. The means of settlement planning of settlements which do not have the means of spatial planning must be prepared within four years of accession in order to ensure that the means of settlement are consistent with the law. The newly joined settlements in 2008 are obliged by law to prepare and review their settlement arrangements within six years of accession, i.e. until 1 December 2014, and to bring them into line with the settlement plan of the Balaton priority resort area. The government provided support to the seven small settlements concerned from the end of 2013 for the preparation of plans resulting from the statutory obligation. Due to the shortness of time and the delay in the planning negotiations, three municipalities indicated in autumn 2014 that they could not accept the completed and revised settlement arrangements until the statutory deadline. The use of State aid is subject to compliance by the municipalities concerned with their obligations within the time limits laid down by law. The extension of the preparation of settlement arrangements by the end of next year would allow the municipalities concerned to fulfil the original funding conditions. The proposed legislation also clarifies the rules of the National Land Planning Act, which will enter into force on 30 December 2014 and will be a priority area and zone for landscape protection. The aim is to ensure that spatial planning plans and urban planning instruments can be implemented on a scale. The rule of the area of priority for landscape protection needs to be narrowed down to the range of territorial plans. It is also necessary to modify priority regional and county spatial planning plans and settlement planning tools as part of the work, adapted to the type and scale of the plans. As regards the law on the spatial planning plan of the agglomeration in Budapest, the proposal states that it is necessary to bring the capital city, the metropolitan districts and other settlements covered by this law into line by 31 December 2018. This is because, in the case of the capital city, it requires until 30 June 2014 and until 31 December 2015 for the metropolitan districts and other settlements, to bring their settlement arrangements into line with the law. The capital city was in breach of the law, since no changes were made to its settlement arrangements until the above mentioned deadline. In view of the short deadline, it is also proposed to extend the deadline for other municipalities. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the proposal is to assist urban development planning, which is of particular importance in the coming years. This is why it is important that Hungarian legislation is fully in line with Community legislation, but, above all, do not hinder the development of settlements, but promote them. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the bill by those who are in favour of progress. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-25-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know if I should dare to comment, because I can see that the Secretary of State is also responsible for the subject, so that he doesn't swallow me, too, if I have any critical comments on the law. But, Secretary of State, allow us, however, opposition representatives, to have critical comments on the bill. You know, because sometimes you can learn from that, you don't have to take everything as an attack. [[L. Simon László: Go!]] But to get to the bill, the draft does indeed amend a number of laws on construction and spatial planning, which are indeed aimed primarily at technical clarification of legislation, but there are also some substantive amendments here. The law shall enter into force at the earliest on the 8th day following its publication and on 30 December 2014 at the latest. We have already done this many times, and I must point out now, Mr State Secretary, that the bill is not included in the government's 2014 legislative programme, so the government did not intend to negotiate it. And while earlier it was true of the debate on the previous bill that it had undergone a wide-ranging social consultation, unfortunately, it is true of this bill, which is true of almost every bill in the month before us, that, in the case of this bill, the social consultation did not take place. [[12.40]] It is a pity, indeed, because in this way we will not know what social and economic impacts the regulation will have. The justification for the recognition of professional qualifications and its compliance with the Directive refers to the fact that, as a result, the practice of new regulation, investment managers and construction management experts can be carried out in the future without notification or without authorisation. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that this is good because it reduces administrative costs. If that were true, then it would have been good to know and know how much this really reduces administrative costs. On the other hand, it would be good to know the impact of the changes on the construction process because, in the absence of legal rules, the expected results of the changes in practice are highly questionable. Ladies and gentlemen, The vast majority of the provisions of the bill amends the recent legislative proposals adopted by Parliament and sets yet another eloquent example of the errors caused by the unthinkable legislation, the hasty corrections that we have already experienced. [[L. Simon László: Oh, my God!]] The general justification itself states that the draft allows for the application of certain rules of the law, which impose tasks on local governments. Is that welcome? Mr Secretary of State has also spoken about this - but then I respectfully ask, and I ask the question, that the government then recognises that the rules on local authorities were inexplicable in practice. [[L. Simon László: No!]] Then we should have said that earlier. And by the way, you've caused the local authorities serious trouble. By the way, here is the amendment of the law on the adoption of the spatial planning plan of the Balaton priority resort area and the establishment of the Balaton Spatial Planning Code. To the Balaton Highlighted Resort in 2008? Has it been said here several times? Newly joined settlements are obliged by law to prepare and review their settlement arrangements within six years of accession, until 1 December 2014, and to bring them into line with the spatial planning plan of the holiday area, which is the priority of Lake Balaton. By the way, the government has indeed provided support to the seven small settlements concerned for this design from the end of 2013. However, due to the shortness of time and the delay in the planning negotiations, in autumn 2014 four municipalities actually indicated that they could not accept the completed and revised settlement arrangements until the statutory deadline. However, the use of State aid was subject to compliance by the municipalities concerned with this obligation within the time limit set by law. Indeed, the purpose of the amendment allows the original financing conditions to be implemented. This is indeed to be supported, welcome, but it could have been taken care of sooner, Mr Secretary of State. It is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, that forced legislation also leads to serious professional errors. This is illustrated by the fact that the bill also amends, for example, a law adopted last year, the amendment of which also had to be rewritten less than a month before the entry into force. By the way, this was the law amending individual laws in relation to spatial planning. The amendment of the law on the spatial planning plan of the agglomeration in Budapest is also notable, that, with the failure to fulfil the tasks related to the spatial planning plan, the capital has been committing a default infringement since 30 June 2014, and the bill is trying to improve this. One wonders why the City Council has not predicted that it will not be able to meet its legal obligations in time. We are always told that the relationship between the government and Budapest capital is very good, that cooperation is very good [[L. Simon László: That's right!]] ? Then how could this happen that the capital has been in such a defaulting violation since June 30, 2014? And the solution is also interesting, Mr State Secretary, because instead of enforcing compliance with the law, you are doing just one thing: you are pushing the current deadline to 31 December 2018. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If there is no government intention or government will for professionally based, thought-out legislation or social consultation, then let's face it, we should be pleased that if the legislation adopted previously is to be implemented sooner or later. This, however, Mr Secretary, is not a merit, but merely a compensation. The Hungarian Socialist Party will treat the bill as such. I propose, my fellow members of the Government, that the correction of the legal system be carried out with the laws by which they have abolished transparency, and have created a legal framework for state corruption. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for listening.
u2014-11-25-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-25-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It should be pointed out at the outset that this proposal to amend certain laws relating to construction and spatial planning largely includes administrative clarifications and administrative reduction and facilitation proposals which we can otherwise support and, perhaps, in the case of amendments to the law on the formation and protection of the built environment itself, this can be fully said. This is not what I would do, because we will be able to fully support this, but perhaps rather the section on Balaton's spatial planning plan, the amendment of the Balaton Act, as a Balaton representative, inspired me to say the most of the points of the bill. Of course, the law on the spatial planning plan of the agglomeration in Budapest contains a similar deadline amendment, but let's stick to the amendment of the Balaton Act. The story of this is that in 2008 seven small settlements that would have been required within four years of Lake Balaton joined the most important resort area, i.e. until 1 December 2012 they would first change their own spatial planning tools in order to comply with the provisions of the Lake Balaton Act in full. Well, this did not happen, this deadline expired on 1 December 2012, and only then, after the expiry of the deadline, in spring 2013, the amendment of the Balaton Act to increase this deadline from four to six years, which is at the disposal of these municipalities. Now, it seems that this was not enough, as only at the end of 2013 the State provided resources to carry out this task, and there were three out of the seven municipalities, which now indicated that it was still unable to meet these standards by the deadline, which was a condition of the aid. Of course, it is in the interest of these settlements to vote in favour of and support this amendment of the law, the problem is, rather, to undermine some faith in the seriousness of a law is to amend a complete legislative regulation in the interests of one or two settlements. And not for the first time, I would add, so when we amended it last year, in spring 2013, we should have set a deadline that would have been clearly sufficient for the municipalities to comply with this requirement. It's obvious... [[L. Simon László, while his fingers show that money...]] ? Yes, as the Secretary of State shows, the money speaks here, and the proper use of state aid has put us at risk. However, when it comes to amending the Balaton Act, I cannot stop talking about things that are not in this regulation, but every time the amendment of the Balaton Act comes before the House, or every time this law is dealt with by Parliament, we have to tell it. These are violations of the law that have failed, which would also require that the Parliament deal with them, but so far it has not. [[12.50]] I would also like the Secretary of State's contribution to this. One of these is the construction of the 30 percent coastal promenade in the settlements of Lake Balaton. I have spoken to Parliament about this several times. The municipalities do not have adequate resources at their disposal. In fact, it would be necessary to expropriate 90 or a few properties in order to achieve this. A study was carried out around Lake Balaton, which would take a few billion forints, which was also presented in the form of a budget amendment. In order to achieve this, the Balaton Act states that 30 percent of the inland coastal areas of the immediate waterfront settlements must have free access to a coastal promenade. This is not fulfilled in most of the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton today. It is not fulfilled because the conditions are simply not met. In the past, the coastlines have been fully integrated in many settlements. This causes great problems, since it is mainly on the north coast that the waterfront is becoming accessible in fewer and fewer places, which should be the common property of the Hungarian people, and we should provide free access to Lake Balaton as much as possible. Among these are numerous illegal structures and many illegal stations, which have also been studied by the government in recent years. In this, it was designed to eliminate these illegal entrances, stations and beddings with the help of some HUF 400 million and public workers, and the shoreline according to the waterfront rehabilitation plan will be restored to its original form, so the shoreline will change accordingly, and these illegal uploads will be broken down. That didn't happen. In this regard, I have also tabled a proposal for a budgetary amendment in order to see if we can get this through, and yet, for the sake of the people living on the shore of Lake Balaton and of Lake Balaton, the fate of illegal structures will be settled. But there is a problem not only with entrances and uploads, but also with the installation of the immediate waterfront area. It would be natural, and I think in many other countries, if we visit such a natural treasure, such a lake, we can see that it is almost completely accessible and accessible to travel on the beach. This is not the way it was done here, many places are built in the beach, in many places the immediate waterfront properties fill the immediate waterfront area. [[L. Simon László: It's very nice, but that's not the topic!]] And there is nothing we can do about any structures that are clearly not suitable for the shore of Lake Balaton, such as the one we meet in Balatonkenese, the building famous as the UFO base, where almost industrial-like storage halls are uglinessing directly on the shore of Lake Balaton, on the waterfront. We couldn't do anything with multiple background checks, and he was supposed to have a final demolition permit, and he wasn't. Technically, the owner built himself a sailing port that could enter a covered hangar directly from the water, or I don't know what to call it, in a ship's storage room, which was absolutely amazing, of course, by cementing the beach. There are also many complaints that if we no longer have access to it, at least the view should not be taken away from us. Many properties built directly on the waterfront have a full fence, which does not allow at least the sight of Lake Balaton to be kept. Problems like this can be seen with some good ones. The amendment to the Lake Balaton Act, I think, perhaps it should finally go in this direction and come before the House. Of course, we have now made our initiative in the form of budgetary amendments, but we have also done so in the form of other legislative proposals, but so far it has not succeeded. I could also speak in a few words about the amendment of the Balaton spatial planning plan on lex SCD, which we have also brought up several times in this House with my colleague Enikő Hegedűsné Kovács. This is about the fact that in 2006 the Honourable Parliament accepted the amendment of the Balaton Act, which increased the capacity of the camping on the shore of Lake Balaton from 10 to 15 percent or in some cases to 30 percent. It also increased the height of the building and gave the SCD group, which bought the camping on Lake Balaton shortly before, with the result that without cutting a hoe, their property became worth hundreds of millions of HUF or billions of HUF. Then, after years, we saw that no investment from what was promised was made, so to speak, out of their portfolio on the shore of Lake Balaton, backing out, selling. These areas are still standing there, in many places the weeds are beating up these campsites, and without proper exploitation, they have become wasted, but since they are isolated, they are surrounded, so the locals can't use them as a beach. For example, Badacsonytomaj has an example, but I think there are many other places around Lake Balaton. So there's plenty of work to be done here as far as the Balaton spatial planning plan is concerned. I say that this bill in this form, the administrative facilitations for the benefit of the Balaton coastal settlements and the capital, so that these settlements can be amended within an appropriate time limit, we can now support it, but I also ask for the contribution of the Secretary of State and the contribution of my fellow members of the Fidesz Party of Government in order to get something underway with regard to the other problems that I have raised regarding the shore of Balaton. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]]
u2014-11-25-70	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-25-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the opportunity to renegotiate on some draft legislation and to exchange ideas on a few things. I would like to say those parts of the proposal which, to a lesser extent, offend us, are in our view an interest against which we should fight. First of all, the amendments to the Construction Act include changes that seek to simplify the regulation of construction. Such is the limitation of the ability to carry out investment and administrative expert activities in the field of construction, the elimination of notification, which, in our view, will be simplification and facilitation. The Possibly Other Politics supports cutting red tape and over-regulation, but it is also important to ensure that the planned investments in the country are properly implemented and monitored, that the system remains fully in control, so that we can monitor the background of this. After the procedures for the start of construction work are regulated by the Government of 312/2012. CHAPTER XI The Government decree of the 8th of October, and it has recently changed this, so it is indeed necessary in the Law on Construction to delete the contractor's non-current obligations, such as the announcement of the start of the construction, and to require new obligations such as the acquisition of the acknowledgement. So so far, it seems that with this amendment, we could even paddle in one ship, because I will propose to this part of the amendment to the law to the faction that it is eligible, and we agree with these government efforts. However, let me say, like previous speakers, that if we had already touched on the construction legislation, it would have been good to address some of the vital issues that had already been discussed in the debate and even before the Parliament, which would have charged failure to comply with the law of the local authorities, such as the financing of the redesign and renewal of the general settlement plans. After all, very, very many rural authorities suffer from the lack of substantial resources to regularly review, update the new development aspects, and would have been a great relief throughout the Hungarian countryside, especially in the new budget cycle, if the Parliament provided a regulatory framework for general settlement plans with facilitations that would create the opportunity for local authorities to follow the law. In any case, I consider the amendment to be eligible, but at the same time, as I said, it would have been good if we had taken a much wider look at it if we had already touched this legislation. CXII of 2000 on the adoption of the spatial planning plan of the special resort Balaton and the establishment of the Balaton spatial planning rules. With regard to the amendment of the Act, we consider it important that the municipalities that have been granted access to the priority resort area are also able to fully integrate with the legislation on the area, but it is regrettable that this has not been achieved so far within the original deadline provided for by the Act. However, we also believe that by amending the law, we must ensure that the accession settlements are brought into line with the means of settlement planning, and we support the extension of the deadline by regulating the district. [[13.00]] At the same time, I must fully agree with Mr Lajos Kepli, who said that it is necessary to apply the law because of one or two municipalities. He said that faith in the law should be undermined by this type of legislative work. Obviously, it can be more decisive than that: legal certainty is, in effect, threatened by the need to access the legislation on account of a specific case. On the whole, in addition to saying that we can ensure the government's efforts to achieve this, we will support this draft, but I also have to say here that there are a number of other levels of resolution and regulation that should have been considered, that if we had opened up the possibility of reaching out to this law, then it would have been worth doing. We did not discuss this with Mr Kepli, who is an excellent expert in the area, who is well aware of this lake and the environment of the lake in terms of its geographical and natural characteristics, but I am very, very concerned about the regulation that has resulted in the elimination of traditional fishing methods. In part, because the spread of large-scale species of bugs is not favourable to the maintenance of the Balaton ecosystem, which cannot only be controlled by fishing means, the expansion of the more adventive species is also something that cannot be achieved by fishing means alone, so, indeed, in this law there would be a number of regulations that would be worth reaching out more carefully if it were already before us. I also share the Member's concerns about the protection of the percentage of integration and the lake shore, and it would be our pleasure if we had the opportunity to exchange ideas about this in Parliament. Another part of this is what we can acknowledge, so that we are not opposed to this is the 2005 LXIV on the Spatial Planning Plan of the agglomeration in Budapest. a motion for amendment to the law. Once again, we are talking about an extension of the deadline, which is required by the failure of the capital to comply with the law. The 2005 LXIV on the Spatial Planning Plan for the agglomeration in Budapest. It extends the deadline laid down in the Act, in which it was required to bring the settlement arrangements into line with the previous amendment. As of 30 June 2014, the capital city was not able to comply with this, and since the other municipalities and districts would have to adapt to this, they would probably not have been able to meet the original deadline of 31 December 2015. The proposal extends the deadline to 31 December 2018. If we have already mentioned so much efficiency in the debate on the former Law on Cultural Heritage, it would certainly be good if the Municipality of Budapest could achieve this kind of efficiency in order not to have to adapt the legislative work to their omissions. However, we believe that this part of the amendment submitted can be supported. And I'd like to start from here on out, and I'd say that the 2003 XXIV on the national spatial planning plan. The amendment of the Act, however, is considered to be of great concern, all the more so, because during the discussion of the former item, both the Secretary of State and the Fidesz faction have provided us on several occasions with the priority of protecting the cultural and national heritage in the government's thinking and work, because this amendment, in our opinion, is completely contrary. So please help me understand, Mr State Secretary, because I clearly meant that in the area of landscape protection of national importance, only a priority region and county area use category can be designated, which does not jeopardise the survival of the landscape values on which the designation is based. This has been the legislation so far, and this is what the legislator wants to delete. Now, this is the worrying part where we say that there is a completely opposite approach to what the governing party has said so far in cultural heritage protection. So we'd really, really appreciate it if we could vote on this without it, because the rest of it? As I said, I believe that our group will be eligible. This is what gives us great concern. If this text does not appear in the law, then there will be no regulatory requirement that only regional or county land use categories which do not jeopardise the survival of the landscape can be designated in the area of the landscape protection area of national importance. Instead, they intend to include the provision that the area of the landscape protection area is specified on the basis of the priority regional and county spatial planning plan and on the basis of the settlement structure plan. In a recent debate with Secretary of State L. Simon, we agreed on the idea that central regulation sometimes helps to carry out local tasks more effectively and better. If you would like to remember, Mr Secretary of State, Mr Tukacs has responded to his long discussions on this, and what is happening here is that we are throwing away a power, we are abandoning a specific regulation, and instead we are moving it to a local level that does not need to take national landscape elements into account. So this is the only point with which we have serious concerns, because all of this means that a priority regional or county spatial planning plan at the lower level can essentially overwrite the territorial boundaries of the landscape protection area of national importance if the area concerned is clarified. In the new legislation, it becomes clear that the characteristics of the landscape to be protected should be defined only in the area covered by the priority area and county spatial planning plan, which is covered by the delimitation it has specified. In addition, these characteristics to be protected may be re-regulated by the county and priority regional settlement plan, which we also consider to be of concern, since while the protection of landscape elements of national importance is of paramount importance for the whole country and the nation as a whole, there may be some experience in the country that a regional or sub-regional economic development idea seems to be of such importance because of some political direction that could override the nation's right to landscape and cultural heritage. So all of this shows that landscape protection aspects are being weakened and pushed into the background, and in this new regulation only the section limited by clarification provides for the definition of landscape protection rules for local construction regulations. While the visual design was mandatory in such a zone earlier, the amendment states that this is only an option and is no longer mandatory. We believe that momentary economic interests cannot override the long-term social value, not only measured in forints, which is the preservation of our natural environment and landscapes. The proposed regulation opens up a wide range of gates to gradually overshadowing landscape protection values in economic interests, and we cannot support this. Fidesz has said on several occasions in its electoral campaigns that the country is on the right track, that the country is recovering from the economic crisis, so I think that in a situation where the government is assessing its own situation, it would certainly be appropriate to maintain the landscape and cultural heritage aspects that affect the nation as a whole and are the heritage of all of us. To sum up, I can say that I am sorry that this has come before us again in such a mixed way, in a small section of the law, and I am sorry that because of a local event, we have to touch laws and laws because of municipal omissions, but at the same time we can support the majority of them. This is the one about the national spatial planning plan, which we believe to be insufferable, and we would like to thank you if this one got out of it, and then there would be a peaceful consensus and harmony between our fractions. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak if he wishes to make use of this option. [[László Varju indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] Congressman says he doesn't want to live with it. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-25-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologise to Mr Secretary of State as his rapporteur, but allow me to respond to the words made by Mr Sallai R. Benedek about the cessation of fishing in Balaton, even if they are not strictly linked to the bill. Indeed, I too am confused about this phenomenon, and we suspect or know behind a political decision at the highest level. I was in the last weekend or two weeks ago at the Tihany garden festival, where, for the first time in his history, the ugly thing happened was that the only person missing from the garden festival was the gardena. That is because by stopping fishing in Balaton you can catch the garden as a fish by other means and by fishing rods, but it is so small that thousands or tens of thousands of people visiting the garden festival can't even taste what this typical Balaton fish tastes like. You may have to rename the festival, or I don't know what the next step is, but in any case, the growing or harvesting of your bus can't be solved by any means but by fishing, it's quite certain. Fishing tourism needs to be promoted and developed on Lake Balaton, which is also a sure thing. By the way, I think the concept that Gábor Füstös and Gábor worked out at Balaton Fish Management Co., and where they went before he quit, when they stopped fishing in Balaton, was a good concept. [[13.10]] Did I personally make sure? I was out on a fishing trip with a Balaton fishing boat, and I personally experienced how to fish off alien species, busa, and keg. Do I really think the lake's ecosystem has been compromised by this? I stress: organic fisheries have been suspended. Of course, there is no place for economic fishing on Lake Balaton, and I know that there is a very delicate balance between the two, and there was a lot of legend that the fishermen of Balaton are the biggest rabbis who rob Lake Balaton, and this was usually distributed by fishermen. In any case, this situation is not good, and this needs to be changed. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-11-25-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As several two-minute speakers have not made themselves known, I would like to give the floor to Members who have applied in the normal time frame, first to Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-25-75	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. On today's sitting, not just on this agenda, we are talking about the protection of monuments, heritage protection, construction tasks, archaeology issues, investments, territorial development, development policy, difficult areas with countless laws and powers. And you know what's good about that? The fact that they are set here on a sitting day, of course, within a number of agenda items, but this indicates that the government is imagining this type of regulation along a well-thought-out, very serious professional and management concept. I am also pleased to hear that several of our opposition fellow Members, group leaders, have said that they are fundamentally in agreement with this regulatory situation. As indicated on the previous agenda, two things are important to us? and this can and must be fully coordinated and coordinated; unfortunately, this has been happening over the past few decades - on the one hand, the preservation of the values of the past and, on the other, the development. We are now on the agenda for amending certain laws relating to construction and spatial planning. In my introduction, I wanted to point out that it is very good that the government treats this within the framework of a complex, comprehensive amendment, as this amendment now concerns five laws, including the spatial planning plan of the Balaton priority resort area, the national spatial planning plan and the spatial planning plan of the agglomeration in Budapest. I consider four points to be very important personally in this draft legislation, in the amendments concerned. On the one hand, the more applicable rules concerning local authorities, which set up tasks for local authorities, are applicable. This is one of the objectives of this set of amendments. On the other hand, it complies with the various EU directives. Thirdly, and this is also a very great achievement of these amendments, so that they can clearly reduce the administrative burden on businesses in this area, in the field of construction, in the coming period. On the other hand, I particularly welcome the fact that the possibilities for the electronic submission of applications in this field are being expanded. It's also a good thing. I therefore urge everyone to support this draft legislation in any way, taking into account the importance of the previous agenda, what we discussed, and the fact that we are discussing this together, indicates that the government is thinking about a complex and comprehensive solution. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-25-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[L. Simon László: No.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending individual laws in relation to the more efficient provision of national financial services will follow up until closure. The submission is T/2079. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-77	Right away, my mic just fell apart.
u2014-11-25-78	It's okay, Mr. Secretary. We'll treat it as a technical problem, and we'll restore time. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-79	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you contains a number of important amendments. If you'll excuse me, I'll go through these. In recent months, more international organisations predicting the performance of the Hungarian economy have improved their expectations of our country, as you have certainly seen in the press. The metrics make it clear that the country is on a long-term growth path. Improving Hungary's competitiveness, regardless of political origin, is in the interests of all of us, we hope, even the socialists. I say that we hope, even for the socialists, because they have benefited a great deal through the IMF that Hungary went down during their governance. The legislative proposal on the more efficient provision of national financial services includes fine-tunings that will increase the transparency of the domestic financial system, make the operation of public bodies involved in economic development simpler and more efficient. After several rounds of negotiations, it has been achieved that our country will be the second largest beneficiary of the European Union budget for 2014-20 on the basis of per capita grants. The proposal contains measures that will allow EU funds to reach beneficiaries more effectively. As part of this, the Hungarian Development Bank, which is experienced in the development of business and financial resources, is involved in the distribution of financial instruments supported by the European Structural and Investment Fund as an implementing organisation, building on major intermediary network links. The Bank's involvement in this field is well-known, the current amendment merely clarifies this area and, among other things, provides the financial institution with the opportunity to set up a suitable work organisation in order to carry out the tasks to which it belongs as effectively as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to further develop the Hungarian economy, our government also wants to improve the financing of strategic investments. With this in mind, the scope of financial flexibility needed to carry out large-scale investments is broadened by the amendment, where the MFB's combined exposure to non-credit institution clients is set at 45% of the own funds. This moderate limit increase is a small step for the MFB, as it does not affect the functioning and stability of the bank, but is a big step towards achieving investments at national level, my fellow Members. The State will appear in the retail utility sector by setting up the first national utility provider. The aim is to compete for customers with the rest of the market by offering attractive and secure public services because of the state's high quality of service at affordable prices. As the first step in the construction of the system, the Hungarian Development Bank acquires an interest in Főgáz Zrt. and the change of ownership should also be included in the Annex to the MFB Act. CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of companies serves the smooth operation of the basic and public task provided for by the law. Amendment of law allowing the State to buy out minority owners. The purchase of minority shareholdings would only be possible for private public limited companies providing basic public services where this is strictly required by the intention to improve security of supply and the performance of tasks. The purchase could only be initiated by the State if it had a share of at least 90 per cent of the votes, so it had a decisive influence anyway. The proposal is in line with both domestic constitutional requirements and EU directives and the practice of the European Court of Justice. In addition, it concerns the introduction of a right similar to that which is currently enforceable in the private sector in accordance with the current capital market rules in public limited companies. Dear House, If a domestic market undertaking or any other market firm can claim the right to acquire a binding interest in minority ownership, then we must also give the State the opportunity to further increase its influence on public service companies whose safe, predictable and efficient operation is in the fundamental interest of the whole country, especially citizens, families and family houses using services. [[13.20]] The law must, of course, also take into account the protection of minority owners, and therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the unification of management can only be done in compliance with strict procedures, appropriate compensation and clear guarantee rules. The proposal also seeks to address another difficulty. Today, the State is often only indirectly, so it is able to learn, in a limited and slow manner, about the operation of publicly owned companies in which it otherwise has a majority influence, as the company's executive officials are also subject to confidentiality to the exercise of ownership rights. In order to ensure reasonable and predictable operation, public decision-making efficiency and transparency in public matters, the proposal provides for an exemption for the worker. We met the legitimate expectations of society when we had previously proposed to the managers of public companies not to take advantage of the premium payment option or to use it for a beneficial purpose. 99 percent of state leaders recognized the personal moral benefits of this situation, but some turned to court. The purpose of the amendment submitted is to ensure that only the companies concerned are exposed to such litigation, not their managers. The amendment before you, ladies and gentlemen, also aims to improve the situation of cooperative credit institutions in terms of prudential and efficiency. While the State is working on the modernisation of the sector, operators in the sector themselves, on a market basis, are taking transformational measures, mainly merger measures, which require a two-thirds decision of shareholders. The savings cooperatives have asked us to lighten the rules by amending the law, as the decision-making mechanism currently in force is either incredibly slowing down or even making it impossible for them to make progress. For some savings cooperatives, the number of members exceeds the size of thousands, and for the majority, members with minimal share capital are sometimes almost impossible to reach. Ladies and gentlemen, By complying with the request, the law would be amended so that two thirds of the members present could decide on matters not dealt with on two occasions because of indecision. With this solution, the rights of members will not be violated, substantive decisions may also be taken. If one of my fellow Members or members of their family has a share in a savings cooperative, it knows exactly what I'm talking about. It was just this weekend that my mother told me what the meeting and the general meeting on the savings cooperative merger looked like. So it's perfectly realistic to regulate. To operate under the legislation, support is a proposal for amendment to the bill before my fellow Members, according to which redemption of a partial ticket may only be granted to the owner who has become a member if it does not jeopardise the prudential requirements relating to the operation of the institution. This amendment is necessary because this year the European Union has put in place very strict capital-holding criteria, and in principle, there may be a situation where redemptions reduce the own funds of the savings cooperative to below the level set by the EU. We have to prevent a case like this from happening. For the same reason, the Law entitles the Savings Bank not to contribute to the transformation of the company in so far as it violates prudential rules. At the same time, Magyar Nemzeti Bank's comments on the activities of supervisory commissioners were included in the amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the provisions contained in the proposal is therefore to improve the efficiency of the institutional system, which is directly or indirectly under the supervision of the Hungarian State, for financial and economic development purposes, which also contributes to increasing the competitiveness of our country. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before you. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-25-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary, he spoke in detail about the restructuring of the institutions and companies in the draft law providing financial services, the plans envisaged. I would like to say a few words about a specific area, which is the area covered by the draft law in one of the Annexes, and this would be the creation of a national public service company. For the Government of Hungary and the Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association, reducing the financial burden on people is a priority issue. Since 2010, the government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction association have been working to break down the serious restrictions imposed by socialist governments on Hungarian families and make people's everyday lives more livable and easier. For example, the government introduced a system of single-key personal income tax and family tax relief, while increasing taxes on multinational companies. For example, the bank tax, the telecommunications tax. These could result in a proportionate or more proportionate burden-sharing between companies and society. Why was this necessary, why were these measures necessary? ? The question could have been put to many. Because of the brutal increase in energy prices in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, which we do not better prove is that in 8 years the fees have been raised 15 times, thanks for example to the price of gas tripled and the price of electricity doubled, and this has hit families, making their everyday life difficult, their everyday economy and their farming. As a result, taking into account the incomes, i.e. the price increases, Hungarian families paid the highest energy charges in Europe, while energy suppliers could reap billions of profits each year. In view of the difficult situation, the civilian government has been constantly working to ease the burden on families. Thus, as the government was in favour of Hungarian families against socialist governments, from 1 January 2013, the price of electricity, gas and district heating was reduced by almost 25 percent, with further cuts. I would also like to add that water and sewerage charges, waste transport and chimney sweep charges, as well as the price of bottled gas and the price of waste water transport have also been reduced. No government in Hungary has been able to relieve the burden of families to this extent since the change of regime. Until autumn, due to a reduction in energy prices alone, retail consumers have saved more than HUF 334 billion since 1 January 2013, i.e. electricity, gas and district heating. Consumers saved most of the money on the electricity bill, as they paid HUF 160 billion less for this service. In the case of natural gas, HUF 139 billion was the total savings of residential users, while a further 35 billion remained for consumers by reducing the cost of district heating. This was also accompanied by the aforementioned reductions in water, sewer and waste transport charges. The results are clearly visible, but further measures are needed to ensure the long-term sustainability of the reduction. This autumn, the government decided to set up a national public utility service provider, which will provide electricity, gas and district heating from 2015 onwards. The operation of the first national public utility service provider will essentially not be aimed at achieving profits, but at providing a secure and cheap service for the population and the economy. The first step in implementing it can be considered that the State has already purchased Main Gas, which is therefore planned to be a good basis for the national utility holding company. The State will therefore appear in the retail utility sector by setting up the first national utility provider. The aim of the public utility service provider is to offer energy at a favourable price, at the same time as providing a secure public service that fully meets consumer protection concerns. The State is therefore the first to appear on the universal gas service market in the field of national public utility services, with the State taking over Main Gas. However, a change in ownership is also required in the Annex to the MFB Act, which is included in this amendment. That's what I meant in my first sentence, in my first thought. The creation of a national public utility service provider guarantees the preservation of the results of the reduction. The first national public utility provider is planned to be Főgáz Zrt. in March 2015. For the first time in its base, as I have already mentioned, it begins its retail service activity in the field of gas services. [[13.30]] This system will then continue to grow, second-stage electricity supply and third-stage district heating will allow the State to enter the market as a universal service provider. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Utility Service Provider will cooperate with the Hungarian Posta, the Fee Picker Holding and the government windows as planned, which will allow for one-stop-shop service and cost-effective operation. The National Utility Provider will thus provide a secure and inexpensive service to the public. In order to achieve this, this amendment is necessary, as it will enable the State to buy out minority owners and build a uniform, predictable national utility system. That is why I am asking for your support, not only at a further stage of the debate, but also during the votes. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-25-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-25-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that Mr Péter Cseresnyés did not refer to the agenda. But if you have already made a look at global energy prices, I would like to mention that on the world market the price of energy has decreased by 25 percent, the price of oil for $120 has decreased to $80. On the other hand, you have managed to reduce energy prices in Hungary by about 20 percent, in the midst of a great chandelier. But he didn't tell me that during the previous period, during the crisis, when the price of oil went up to $120, it was related to...? So it wasn't the government's intention to increase energy prices. Now, however, your intention is to lower the price of energy on the world market. This is a matter of professional correctness, not reducing, of course, the decency of your decision to cut energy prices. Because they were actually making progress with what the world market made possible, and it's very right that they didn't put most of it in private pockets like the MET offshore gas business, but instead spent most of it on price cuts. The T/2079. I would like to refer to those parts, which, in my view, are not related to any increase in efficiency. The bill amends the Act XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank. Act CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies, i.e. the MFB Act. CXXXV of 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the amendment of certain economic legislation. Law, the Savings Association Act. This has already been brought by you, and it is therefore interesting that you are now reaching out even further to make it easier for you to manage the assets and influence you have acquired in the savings cooperative area. As part of the amendments to the MFB Act, MFB Zrt. can also hold a holding in Főgáz Zrt. in the Annex to the MFB Act. It's practically a matter of fact, it's just a technical transfer. The question is what a development bank should do in a gas supplier, but you have certain ideas that are either professional or true or not. Perhaps the approach taken by the profession, or their own argument, is more in favour of non-promotional arguments, that they want an integrated energy holding. There's not much room in that for MFB ownership. The other amendment to the MFB Act is that MFB's own funds are set at 45% of MFB's own funds instead of 35 percent so far. the maximum amount of the combined exposure to a client or a non-credit institution member of a group of clients that is not a credit institution. Why this is necessary, it is not really possible to decipher it from the justification. In any case, it seems to be a pretty high ratio of 35 percent and 45 percent, specifically. We don't know what they intend to do with this. Development Bank Ltd. It also expands the scope for its employees, and, in our opinion, the relaxation of conflict of interest rules on the part of the employees of the MFB is not justified. In fact, it makes it particularly interesting that, in addition to the membership of senior officials or supervisory board, employees of the MFB may establish an additional employment or employment relationship with an economic company in which the Hungarian Development Bank or the State holds a direct or indirect participation. It's a solution to the conflict of interest. You can also establish an employment relationship with a company against which the Bank of Development is taking risks, in Hungarian: it has given it credit, it has guaranteed and so on. The Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. As regards the limitation of the acquisition of ownership in a company, the submission states that the restrictions should apply to the indirect shareholding of the MFB only if the MFB holds more than 50% of the votes in the direct shareholding company. In Hungarian, a company in which MFB has a minority stake can acquire shares in any company. It also solves certain conflict of interest rules, which had a logic. It is also possible to establish an employment relationship, but it provides an opportunity for concentrations that may not be appropriate in the case of public property. The following amendment: CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. In the context of the amendment of law, they will be obliged to give up their shares to municipalities, companies and individuals who own shares in MVM Zrt. In companies where the State owns at least 90% of the shares? This is how the rule was formulated - and the company provides essential services to retail and economic operators, and the State's representative acquires a right to purchase by virtue of the law. This is an option during which the purchase contract can be enforced without any additional condition by a unilateral declaration, i.e. the minority fraction owner must sell his pakette. If the representative of the State wishes to exercise his right of purchase, the current shareholders will be obliged to dispose of their papers. In order to exercise the right of purchase, it is only necessary for the company to provide power generation, system management, energy trading or energy transmission services. At the same time, this legislative passage can also be applied to companies that provide universal energy services or public services or financial services related to them, although at present this form is not known. So this full description contains an empty set, it describes it, but they probably already have ideas for such a company. Under the present proposal, the companies concerned may exercise the right of purchase opened here for a maximum period of 120 days after the entry into force of the law. Will shareholders receive a higher amount of equity per share and of the market price determined on the basis of the proposal? So far, the owners? After their papers. That seems to be a good thing. [[13.40]] The proposal justifies the need to establish a right of purchase with a view to increasing the efficiency of security of supply and the provision of tasks in the interests of the national economy. This is what is difficult for it to do in constitutional terms, because at the moment there is only 0.03 percent minority ownership in the MVM, so that the minority owner cannot have any impact on security of supply and balanced operation or its deterioration. Therefore, this justification of the right to buy, and therefore the violation of the constitutional law which constitutes a free provision of property, is not related to the present justification. So they're assigning each other things that can't be ordered together. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba.]] The managing officer of the publicly owned company? writes the submission -, fb or its owner's right holder is not liable for the premium or non-cash benefits not paid to the employee of the company, if it is solely charged to the public economic company. The claim can only be enforced against the company. The provision also covers pending cases. This gives a kind of exemption to managers who, following an illegal practice, can say, withdraw a premium or terminate an employment relationship out of a spot, thereby exempting them from personal responsibility. We do not think this is right, it opens the way of a kind of arbitrary act, further reduces the power of legal guarantees. In the context of the amendment to the Savings Cooperative Act, the proposal states that if the decision on amendment, merger, division or transformation is not reached at two successive general meetings or part-general meetings of cooperative credit institutions within three days of the last general meeting, the vote of at least two thirds of those present shall be sufficient on those matters, provided that the representative of the integration organisation is also present? as a dominant organization? participates and information on the general meeting has been published three days before the repeated general meeting, at least in a national daily newspaper and in the county daily of the registered office of the cooperative credit institution. This simplifies decisions to be taken on cardinal issues, amendment of statutes, merger, division, and may not serve legal certainty. In fact, it certainly doesn't serve that, but it serves the easier transformation of the integration organization. The Board shall authorise the redemption of cooperative shares only if, for example, it does not jeopardise the prudent functioning of the cooperative credit institution in the event of the death of a member. That is what the national secretary of state said, too, that if he does not endanger this prudent operation, it is appropriate that the rules of this work be drawn up in more detail because the fact that a particular situation can be classified as prudent or not is rather subjective. So one specialist calls it a prudent one, the other a prudent one. It would probably be good to give a more precise legislative definition, so it is quite subjective to what is prudent. It's a very wide category like this. The bill further empowers the government to establish the obligation of the integration organisation to draw up accounts and keep books, and its specificities, in a regulation. Well, that's nice, too. With government help, it was transformed, rescued, like private pension funds, the savings cooperative sector, now it belongs to someone, and now the government can even lay down these rules in a regulation. So the main comments on the bill are that unfortunately there is no consistency between the title and the content of the bill, and it is not clear how much more effective the provision of certain national financial services is due to the legislative amendments, because this is about eliminating certain guarantee elements. It is clear that the main aim of the regulation is to push small owners out of MVM Zrt. We could also say that this passage is the lex Mártha Imre pass, because one of the former CEO's companies has a tens of thousands of interests in MVM and doesn't have to look into the processes so that it doesn't find out whether a general meeting was regular, because, for example, in relation to the purchase of E.ON, there were no steps taken that would have been required under the company law. So, in view of all of this, we believe that legal certainty is not increased, but reduced, and that we cannot therefore support its adoption. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-85	Mr President, Dear House, We have a bill ahead of us, which, if I may say so, is one of my favorites. And the reason I'm stuck with this surprising statement is because it's finally possible to talk about a little vision, a future, and whether the government sees what should be done in this strategic plan, and if it sees what direction it is going in. However, I cannot go without saying the speeches of the members of the lead speaker group before me, because they approached the whole issue in a much wider perspective, so they also opened up an opportunity for me to talk a little bit about reducing the rent, to talk a little bit about the assassinations of socialist governments against Hungarian clients and Hungarian citizens. Although I would add that it has been five years since then, so we should now focus more on what energy strategy the current government has, I think it is in its second cycle, so it can be accounted for by a number of sets of actions and their consequences. So I wouldn't want to join the MSZP's position on energy vampires, especially after, as is known, several Hungarian sectors were dumped in a week or two, and then they signed contracts with foreign companies providing an asset-proportional profit of 8 percent in the first round, the consequences of which are known. On the one hand, it is an unjustified burden for the Hungarian population of hundreds of billions. [[L. Simon László: That's right.]] I am glad that the Secretary of State agrees with me, because the other consequence is the absence of consequences. 'Cause it's been 4.5 years since then, and you haven't really put anyone on the bench of the defendants who signed the contracts at that time or who was responsible at all. [[L. Simon László: Congressman, we must press charges.]] So it can be seen that there is a failure and a series of omissions on the part of the current government. The fact that Hungary is living in a period of lasting economic recovery has also come to the attention of the Fidesz keynote speaker. He also mentioned that our country will be the second largest beneficiary of the next EU cycle. At this point, once again, there is the need for the government to finally draw up an EU balance sheet, where it becomes measurable that Hungary, as I claim, is paying on membership of the EU, you claim that we are one of the largest beneficiaries. It is obvious that a precise balance sheet could only answer the decision on this issue, where we also assess the indirect economic effects and see how much Hungary will pay for, for example, the stay of the companies in Western Europe concerned, the unjustified benefits they are given. In a previous interpellation, I suggested that, compared to an average Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise, a multi-company can receive so-called job creation support of up to 6-8 times the size of a so-called job creation project, namely and typically car manufacturers, where there was a case of the fact that when a job creation grant was granted, the Hungarian State essentially gave the equivalent wage for two years to this multinational? What did the multi take in return? Surprisingly, he's going to employ the hired citizen for two years. So this is also the discreet charm of public employment, if you take it as one of its types. And, then, there should be some answers as to whether, after drawing up such a scale, this position could be maintained, as said by the Fidesz lead speaker. Not according to my statement. We also need to talk about it, because he mentioned that with the introduction of a single-key tax, the positive effects of which unfortunately fell to 85 percent in the capital and in the immediate vicinity, and the results of the so-called taxing of multi-company companies, this government has achieved; here I have to mention some HUF 4000-4500 billion. [[13.50]] A huge amount of money that we know is being taken out of Hungary by these multi-companies, essentially untaxed or with the text of the rental of the IT system, or by renting and buying different production technologies, where there is no ceiling, there is no top hat. So thousands of billions can be lured out of Hungary by similar means. If this government had caught only 10 percent of this outflow in four and a half years, an entire Hungarian economic sector could be resurrected every year. So the fact that our country would be the second largest beneficiary of EU reparations is not to say that it is a circumstantial lie, because you do not have statistics on how much we pay for it, or at least you do not stand the test of reality. We have to say, as I said, there is a lack of accountability in the matter of overhead, and a very serious statement has been made here that consumers have saved HUF 334 billion on the fact that the so-called debt reduction programme has been carried out by the government. I'd like to nuance this picture with two figures. In parallel with a hundred-billion-dollar apparent discount, a 52-billion-dollar compensation for taxpayers' money has already appeared on the other side, with which you recompensated those companies? There was, of course, a municipal-owned utility company - which was thought to be likely to go bankrupt or, where appropriate, bankrupt. But then, I beg you, let's not see it as complete if the other side, our other pockets, of the taxpayers' money, has immediately replaced half of it. Then let's talk about half the amount, or let's talk about the fact that just now the tax package presented and adopted in recent weeks in Hungary has created a situation where it has been able to almost completely eliminate the positive effects of the so-called reduction. I don't want to talk about shampoo and shampoo with cheap demagogues. It could be, but it's not the few items that seem to be pennies and, consequently, a few tens or hundreds of millions of dollars that take away the biggest money, but exactly the amazing, unjustified transfers resulting from taxes in the financial sector that this government has sustained. Fidesz's lead speaker also mentioned this issue. I'm really sorry KDNP couldn't or didn't want to put on a lead speaker. I feel that the importance of the subject would have required that we approach it from a variety of perspectives. But you can see that the huge problem with special taxes of 400 billion in this year's budget, i.e. which have a legitimate effect on the financial sector, is that if you do nothing about it, you will transfer it to the Hungarian population in full, as you have done in the past. So, in itself, to refer to them as the cornerstones of the Hungarian economic recovery is at least doubtful. What's ahead? Let's talk about what's a little bit of a thank-you relationship with reality. In essence, this bill empowers the Hungarian Development Bank to manage, for example, supported applications, so-called decision preparation and audit processes? Nice and good. How do you translate this into Hungarian? By amending a 2009 law, you are actually giving the state the opportunity to shop here or there, which is, by the way, a process supported by me, so getting strategically important companies back is good. And then they give the State the opportunity to buy out minority owners from companies providing basic services to the population and economic operators, obviously, in the event that the public ownership ratio reaches 90 per cent. So they're relatively narrowed down, but they're expanding the possibility of state intervention. What really deserves a very long debate or even a day of debate is a statement that, according to the text of the draft, I quote the aim is to increase the efficiency of security of supply and the provision of tasks in the strategic interest of the national economy. Would you like to remind me of that here? and I am very pleased that there is a State Secretary here in this debate who is actively involved in the various disputes and who responds to the points, I hope that he will do so now. At the dawn of the so-called reduction process... [[L. Simon on László's signal:]] And I can see that you are tired and that you can afford your third presentation, but we are discussing very important matters in the Hungarian Parliament. So, at the dawn of the so-called reduction of the rent, there was a better demand that strategic property should be recovered very well. Increasing participation in strategic companies and improving the efficiency of state control is also an excellent thing, but this would be fair and workable if the government had at least a base level of 1.0 plans for what it wants, how it wants to get it back, and how it can do it in a price-to-value ratio, looking forward to one or two fiscal cycles. I will give you a few examples: sewerage works, electricity suppliers, countless companies in which foreign interests have appeared or are present, unjustified transfers have been made by them to the Hungarian population, their ownership has not involved itself in the public burden, and in many cases the former or current owners who are foreign? We are talking about Western European state companies - they could be found. So, yes, during the settlement of the accounts, what was this guaranteed profit for 8 percent of assets, which then went up to 20-30 percent, as the market processes and efficiency, improved the operating efficiency of companies, led to the situation of being able to squeeze even more out of people. So, along with a reprivatisation strategy and an accounting plan, a long-term timetable could and should be drawn up that the government wants to get this and this back, at such a value-for-value ratio, with such opportunities, so much to turn on, and what it is trying to review in relation to previous contracts that are very unfavorable to Hungary and citizens. The problem is that not only did we not see such a paper, or rather such a document has not been found, there are brief general explanations and horse-zunges here. I am very pleased that we are now talking about the creation of the first national utility provider, which will also provide electricity and gas later on, and it is very good that this is not profit-oriented, but let us be clear that it is possible to run a non-profit-oriented company with very poor efficiency. So if both the revenue side and the expense side are artificially inflated, the spending is wasted, it could still be a zero payout, and it might not be profitable, but it could still be very inefficient to run a company. Obviously, that can't be a goal. There may not be a political force in Parliament that has this declared or unspoken purpose. But we would very much like to know what kind of energy sector the government wants, and once again, whether it has a reprivatisation strategy. And there's a more serious question. If the Hungarian Development Bank acquires a more serious interest in Hungarian national interests, in Hungarian state companies, can there be a situation where, by reference to so-called bank secrets, it does not reveal to us the details of a transaction, it does not reveal the existence or absence of different impact assessments, investigations? Perhaps a little over a year ago in the Committee on Budgets, we were asked for permission, a blank cheque, to separate a certain amount from the Hungarian Parliament to buy back a utility company. It turned out that the amount you wanted to spend was a threefold gap between the valuation and the valuation of the company. We do not want to experience any more of these situations, because it is very important to recover as much of the strategic assets as possible, but it is clear that if we cannot know the details of future transactions by reference to bank secrets, then we cannot be authorised to do so. In conclusion, it is very important to point out that one of the most brutal omissions of the government, which should have been done in the so-called method change period, but at least in the last years, since 2010, is the preparation of a national inventory of assets and the mapping of state assets, without which you simply do not know what family silver is. They don't know what to keep or what not to do. They brought something here about so-called national assets that registered some of the state's assets. What was in it, Mr. Secretary? Fifty-four railway lines, the ones they wanted to protect. Otherwise, they have to be protected, so that's not what we're arguing about. It also included Parliament's building, not the Chain Bridge. So, such a childish quality, who would have been cut out of high school by now, who would have published such a list under the title of a paper, but we can say that, not only could he not list the national assets, in which Hungary's investment opportunities would be included, but also its resources, but also gave a very narrow picture of the state's wealth. Don't make them think that national and national assets are the same. I guess you know it's not the same thing. But the thing is, I still miss the national inventory very, very much. And it's missing not only because you don't know what you can cook from, but also because, in the absence of knowledge of the ownership to be protected, who we're going to be responsible for losing these shares or shares. So there is also a very serious question of responsibility. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So until we have an answer to these questions; as long as you are included in this package that you may be part of bank secrets in some transactional parts or circumstances, it would be very difficult to calmly support a similar proposal. I very much hope that, in this debate, our doubts will be eliminated and avoided. It is obvious that Jobbik, for its part, could support and support the recovery and Hungarian ownership of all strategic property, along a reprivatisation strategy. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-11-25-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, As the Secretary of State summarized in his presentation, the bill intends to make improvements and fine-tuning in several areas of national financial services. It has also been said that, in fact, this bill intends to make amendments to three laws, one of which is XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank. Act CXXII of 2009 on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies. Act CXXXV of 2013 on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and amending certain economic legislation Law. In my comment, the 2001 MFB XX. I would like to comment on the amendment of the Act, mainly because the Hungarian Government has generously invested taxpayers' money in state-owned financial institutions, banks, whose operations are little known. One of these state-owned financial institutions is the Hungarian Development Bank. Despite the continued support of the MFB and other public banks, their capital ratios and debt ratings have deteriorated steadily in recent years. Like the Hungarian state, the MFB is included in the Bóvli category with credit rating agencies. The main reasons for this are not only the poor performance of the Hungarian economy, but this reflects the continuing loss-making profile of the MFB, the main factor of which is the high level of credit loss write-downs and poor income generation capacity. This is where we mention the increasing proportion of MFB's non-performing liabilities, highlighting that the bank has significant exposures in the commercial real estate sector and in the construction sector. On this basis, we would not be surprised even if a possible future domestic financial crisis arose from the MFB. The legislative amendment before this House would provide additional jurisdictions and involve the MFB in the use of EU funds, while, unlike Article 395 (1) of the EU Regulation on 575/2013, it would allow MFB's exposure to customers to reach up to 45% of own funds compared to a maximum of 25 per cent of EU rules. Also, by way of derogation from international practice, the new regulation would allow MFB to acquire 49 percent of its shares in almost any economic company, since previous professional restrictions should be applied only to acquisitions exceeding 50 per cent; and MFB Zrt. From now on, employees of MFB can enter into employment relationships with their customers. We think it's incompatible. In addition, the bill also deals with the regulation of the acquisition of influence on public utility and the integration of cooperative credit institutions, as I said in my introduction. This is about the cooperative credit institution system, which was plotted in an instant, and the trial of the lawsuit initiated by the National Association of Savings and a private individual to compensate for the damage caused by legislation against the Hungarian State and its associates is still ongoing. Compared to this, the MFB has not been able to settle a HUF 10 billion bond issue recently, which has been subscribed to 100% by the savings cooperatives. There is not much to talk about about public utility, because beyond the fact that the Hungarian state has bought itself into the energy sector above market prices, and in recent months it has turned out that electricity and gas services are not going to be non-profit, we do not know much about what they want to do with utility companies close to bankruptcy due to economically unfounded reductions. What can we say about all this? Perhaps it means that as long as hundreds of billions of credit lines are indisputable, there will be no meaningful progress. The position of the LMP is still clear on this issue. We urge that all contracts of the MFB and other public financial institutions deciding on public funds be made public after a reasonable deadline has passed. Until MFB's operations and credit operations are transparent and public, we cannot support the involvement of the MFB in the use of EU funds, the achievement of an even greater financial exposure, the unscrupulous expansion of the MFB in the business sector or the mitigation of conflicts of interest rules for MFB employees. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-11-25-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. I am asking if one of the independent Members wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] No. Then, at the end of the round, I give the opportunity to make a two-minute comment to Congressman István Józsa. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to address a phrase that Jobbik loves very much and that is inaccurate. In the slang, energy vampires refer to the hijacker of spiritual energies, spiritual energies, and they are not entirely scientific. So if you want to extend it to the energy sector and to me now, then I ask you very much not to, because this is without any scientific and factual basis. The more serious part of my comment is that I would like to read a pass on the limitation of fundamental property rights, i.e. the justification for the obligation to buy out small shares and micro-shares, which is included in the submission of the law in the resolution of the Constitutional Court in 2008. In the case of a restriction of ownership in the public interest, the Constitutional Court does not consider it sufficient that the law refers in general to the public interest requiring the restriction, leaving it with free authority to determine which property should be subject to the restriction. The public interest must be defined by law in such a way that the need to restrict the public interest in a specific case can be controlled by a court. This is not apparent from this proposal, because you refer to energy security, you refer to operational stability, so there is simply no causal link to what the Constitutional Court considers necessary condition that the fundamental right to property may be restricted. So what you have here as a justification in the proposal is: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's well-founded, it doesn't stop here. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-25-90	Thank you very much. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next.
u2014-11-25-91	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to reassure our Socialist fellow Member, not personally responsible for what the Horn Government and its successors did in 1995-96, but for the Socialist Party as a whole, in that period, when it was decided to deliver electricity and gas suppliers abroad. Was that a week or two process? if you remember - from contract to play. These companies were mainly purchased by German and French companies, and I will say the exact amount for HUF 485 billion. This is 9 percent of the gross domestic product of the year then, i.e. 9 percent of the gross domestic product. Did your predecessors add to the contracts the guaranteed return on assets, which started at 8 percent later? Once again - as the efficiency of these companies improved, this 8 percent climbed up nicely from 10 to 20 percent. So? In a treasonous way, as I claim? contracts have been concluded with which serious strategic Hungarian assets have been replayed over a period of one or two weeks in respect of all sectors, for a fraction of the gross domestic product at that time and for a profit. That's when these energy vampires appeared on the market, foreign companies, companies and you, which have not yet been accounted for. But I also pointed to the current government, so I have to fire in two, because they have been in power for four and a half years, there has not been a negotiation on these matters, there is no accountability, and we are discussing that Hungary is buying back certain items of property or types of assets, but it is still not about what we could get back from what was obtained from Hungarian state assets and Hungarian national assets in a totally unjustified, fraudulent and otherwise conflicting manner. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.10]]
u2014-11-25-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[Dr. István Józsa: Yes, yes!]] Congressman István Józsa!
u2014-11-25-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sorry that I applied a little late for my next 15 minutes, but the truth is that this law is fundamental, and there are some elements that deserve to be discussed specifically in terms of the practices and events of the last few years. I think the Secretary of State agrees with me that, for example, the story of the purchase of E.ON concerns this proposal and, in this way, it is worth talking about. So back to the concrete proposal to amend the 2009 CXXII. law, legislation on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies, well, from this amendment it is clear that the main purpose of the regulation, which has now been submitted, is MVM Zrt., as it is MVM Zrt. the group managed by the group carrying out the activities under the bill. So it is not described as a reference to MVM, but the description of the scope of activities shows that it is MVM Zrt.. In the case of MVM, the share of private ownership is insignificant, affecting only 0.03% of the nominal value, which is currently owned by 13 institutions, individuals and companies. These include, for example, I and III. district municipality, there is also Korányi G. Tamás, editor-in-chief of napi.hu, and Szent György Lovácslub Kft., which belongs to the interests of the former CEO of MVM, Mr.Imre Mártha. MVM Zrt. Some of its subsidiaries, such as OVIT Zrt., as well as Magyar Gas Tranzit Zrt., in which municipalities have ownership, would not be subject to this regulation, as they do not carry out the activities under the bill, i.e. universal service, public service, related financial services, as well as power generation, system management, energy trading or energy transfer services. So the proposed regulation does not substantially improve the state's decision-making position in MVM Zrt., because it is only about the withdrawal and purchase of 0.03 percent of ownership. The real goal is to get rid of small owners. As a result of the submission, MVM Zrt. the transparency of its activities and the auditability of its operations may be significantly reduced, as in the case of exclusive public ownership it is easier to take decisions by a hand-operated general meeting. There is no need to pay attention to the rules of procedure for the convening of general meetings in the future, see for example? what I have already mentioned - that MVM Zrt. in connection with the convening of general meetings prior to the purchase of certain gas industrial interests of E.ON. the legal risks identified by the General Assembly shall be recorded in the minutes on irregularities in the preparation of the general meetings. So this is visible to small owners; if it is only public property, then it is not certain that these irregularities will come to light. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] There is no need to expect any unexpected questions at the general meetings, either, because there are no small owners; unlike before, there has been a question about offshore gas, and MVM Partner Zrt. One of the small owners asked some questions about the ownership background of MET and the interpretation of the transaction concerning the contracts between MET offshore gas dealers. Well, these uncomfortable questions, if you crowd out the small owners, they won't come up. Who's good at this? It's not good for transparency, it's only good for you if you want to do these assembly work in prison, which would be very inappropriate. Sending the invitations to the general meeting to fewer places also reduces postal costs, so there is also a positive one, because as I see from the interrogations, they require a positive part of the evaluation. Thus, it is definitely positive of the post-subposite state that invitations should be sent to fewer places, so that the postal costs can also be reduced, as well as less mineral water and cake will be sufficient for the general meeting, so savings can be made here as well. It is critical that the proposed regulation is contrary to the rules of the European Union ensuring the free movement of capital, because it provides additional licences to state-owned companies which are not granted to other companies operating without public participation by any law. So, in this sense, it creates discrimination for the benefit of public companies, where public ownership is above 90%. If this point, this right, were to apply to each company, the limitation of ownership under the proposed legislation would be justified in this case only if the State were able to demonstrate that the share of minority owners effectively hinders the efficiency of security of supply and the provision of tasks. But minority owners would not prevent this or justify that all national strategic interests are in some form threatened by ownership of micro-owners. I don't think proof of that happened either, because it didn't. According to the submission, the reason for the limitation of ownership in the explanatory memorandum to the bill is that these companies retain commercial and business secrets vis-à-vis other market participants, because the limitation of ownership would be in the light of the public service mission performed by the company concerned, i.e. it would be applied in a market segment where there is obviously no competition, so there is no business secret that does not belong to consumers, because it is a public service. So there is a self-controversial justification, because if you really want to achieve these goals in a visible, demonstrable way, it could just be a tool for small owners to sit there and testify to the assessment of efficient operation. In other words, if this confidentiality problem were to be explained by the role of the government in the competitive market segment, it would be a confession of discriminatory regulation and a logical failure of the reasoning behind the proposed regulation; therefore it is either discriminatory or pointless, but it is not right in either case. Is the justification for the proposed regulation false in this regard and contains misleading information? It should be noted that this is only an update to the EU Treaty, Mr Secretary of State, you may be able to bring a little harmonisation of legislation through yourself - because the justification, probably by accident, refers to the Treaty of Rome, although there has been a valid Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union since 1 December 2009. So if they were to make the current EU reference, there would be no difference of opinion between us in this respect. [[L. Simon László: Thank you, Congressman.]] The third point that I note is that the amendments to the MFB Act loosen the exposure rules for MFB Zrt., thereby creating a risk-enhancing effect and allowing MFB Zrt. employees in companies loaned by MFB? For example, they can maintain employment in the Public Machine. This may be better for mutual control, but it may not be absolutely necessary from the point of view of operation. [[14.20]] The fourth area, the amendments to the Savings Cooperative Act, facilitates the exercise of law by new owners of the savings cooperative sector. So they took a sector, the savings cooperative area, and now that the new owners are making things easier for them, they're making it a little easier, and they're giving the government a chance to make a decree. Dear Secretary of State, If we look back at the history of the past few years of MVM, when a major transaction such as the purchase of E.ON's natural gas business was prepared or not prepared at meetings of the General Assembly and Supervisory Board which either took place or did not take place when, according to documents enforced by the Index, the entire preparation was irregular, neither the MVM management nor the Supervisory Board discussed the issue, despite the requirements, the submissions were not sent to shareholders 30 days earlier, this could be brought to trial. So now you're trying to cover up a process that's happened by excluding small owners that's proven to be irregular. Why would they want to go to such an area? Why would they want to force the exclusion of small owners who, say, in this regard, in order to have a legitimate meeting of the board of directors, to present the agendas in a regular manner, could provide a certain guarantee? That would be good for you, too. Someone's gonna authenticate the proper operation. Why is this not in the public interest? I would also like to mention that there are risks in the purchase contract with EFT MOL, from which tensions are already visible. The utilisation of gas storage facilities in Hungary is clearly low, and they can only help this very slowly. The question is how to coordinate the operation of these gas storage facilities with MVM. Given the progress of time, I would not comment on the assessment of the financial conditions of the E.ON purchase. In any case, the fact that the value of the shares was 110 billion forints, and you spent more than 460 billion forints overall on this business shows that there should be much greater caution in such transactions, and that we should not put forward to the House a bill that will also eliminate any control of small shares, but, leaving this to ensure that small shareholders can authenticate the legitimate operation, it is precisely necessary to introduce rules that allow the transparent, certified and audited operation of a large national utility. I would rather suggest that the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister's Office represented take legislative action in this direction, which increases the legal guarantee and not in the direction that reduces transparency, reduces the right to free disposal of property and generally gives rise to mistrust. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Márius Révész. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-95	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I just want to make a very short comment. There is, however, a bit of discreet charm when Congressman István Józsa talks about any kind of mess in the energy sector or anywhere else. Honourable Congressman, How many billion HUF contracts did your company conclude with the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? How many billion forints was it? [[L. Simon László: 6.6!]] I know how much, but I'll tell you this: you've signed a contract of HUF 6.6 billion, since you've already said it out loud, Mr. Secretary of State. So I think that the Socialist Party should have found some more authentic, credible commentary on this subject, because I think it is unfortunate that you spoke on behalf of the Party. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-96	Thank you very much. Congressman István Józsa!
u2014-11-25-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Shame on you, Congressman. When the bomb squads in the army get picked on, that's the bottom of the argument, they're doing the hardest job. My experts, my co-workers, worked in the primary round. I resent you speaking in that tone of voice. Your press guys have made a mean attack on me. Secretary of State has stated that I have also made a correct comment on nuclear power plants [[L. Simon László: This was the case, by the way.]] My comment was professionally correct here, too. So shame on you, Congressman, I strongly reject what you said.
u2014-11-25-98	Congressman, I ask you not to lecture the other Member, because this will result in an endless debate. I would also like to ask Mr Márius Révész to do so before his speech.
u2014-11-25-99	Dear Parliament, I didn't say anything special. As a Member of Parliament, you have signed a contract of HUF 6.6 billion. Once again, I will continue to maintain...? and your company - I will continue to maintain the claim that you may not have to talk about any slut in the energy sector, because that doesn't sound completely authentic, authentic from your mouth. Thank you very much. I told you the facts, the numbers are factual.
u2014-11-25-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] I wish. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-25-101	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to some of the questions, as there has not been an excessive debate in the House; in fact, after the main speakerial round, there was only one comment, the second speech by Mr Józsa, which was actually the continuation of his speech as a speaker. I am in a difficult situation, because, while Mr Józsa has indeed given us some consideration, the debate has once again been in a direction far beyond the concrete draft legislation. I would just like to respond to a few things, especially questions of a political nature. Dániel Z. Kárpa was right to raise the issue, and I believe that it is not the first and certainly not the last time in Parliament that much of the Hungarian utility wealth has been sold, and he rightly pointed out the political responsibility in this regard. But I'm asking you very nicely, let's not start reviving the second, now the third Orbán government. Legal opportunities have always been used to the fullest possible extent. How many charges did Congressman make, and how many charges stood up, and how many cases did an investigation start? Therefore, the cases where there has been a breach of law and when there has been no infringement must be very decisively separated. Unfortunately, in many cases, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayer's wealth, was sold as otherwise legitimate, but it was contrary to the interests of the nation, and it was morally questionable. Is it our job in this case? and the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to ensure that our right of self-determination is enforced as widely as possible, so that we can have greater sovereignty, we will do everything we can to ensure that Hungarian utilities are also owned by the Hungarian state. Therefore, the appropriate steps have been taken. There are a number of things, honourable Member, that do not need to be dealt with in this legislation, do not need to be written here, but I think that is what we have done in recent years? Starting from the reduction of the costs to the buy-back of the gas reservoirs, and a number of other examples could be discussed, my fellow Members spoke here today - all pointing in this direction. My fellow Members came again with the question of bank secrets, including Dániel Z. Carpathian and Erzsébet Schmuck. We talked about the same thing here in the House yesterday. You're asking for something absolutely absurd. Why do you think that if a bank is in state control, there shouldn't be any bank secrets? Why do you think that if a bank is state-owned and its management is appointed by the State, then there would otherwise be special rules for a bank, and otherwise it would not be necessary to protect the interests of the contracting parties on the other side in the same way? If you want the Hungarian Development Bank not to conclude a contract in this country, then so be it. But if you want to be innovatively involved in shaping the Hungarian economy and to finance strategic goals for the Hungarian government and Hungarian taxpayers, please stop this nonsense! [[14.30]] On top of that, Congresswoman Schmuck said that I wrote it down: the unscrupulous expansion of the Hungarian Development Bank in the business sector. What are we talking about? Is it not in our common interest that the Hungarian Development Bank participates as innovatively as possible in shaping the Hungarian economy? Is it not in our interest that Hungarian taxpayers benefit from this anyway? In the same way, it can be said that it is not in our interest to say that Eximbank will do everything it can to ensure that the Hungarian export-import balance is further improved and that Hungarian companies export as much as possible, so that we can help them financially, if necessary, in appropriate credit arrangements? Why are we letting commercial banks all over the place? I don't understand what my fellow Members are saying. and, unfortunately, I understand what my fellow Members are saying. Congressman Józsa, I do not want to be personal, as the debate has started in such a direction. In fact, it's true that your company, in which you are 42 percent owner, has been assigned to Paks, if I'm aware of it or if it was a former owner, I don't think we need to talk about it anymore, we've talked enough. However, it is a revealing, honourable Member, that you are talking about MVM here, while in the bill MVM is not written down, and in two separate speeches you are talking about Imre Martha as a former CEO, who is a minority owner and a shareholder in her interest. So you don't think it's absurd to say things like that, to leave minority owners alone in a big state company just because someone would authenticate the contracts? Why? [[Dr. István Józsa: The processes!]] Let me speak, Congressman, I have listened to you. So someone would authenticate the contracts and the processes. I'm sorry, Congressman, I think the horse's feet are hanging out. So, if I think about it, back to Paks again for a moment, the fact that in the last four years it has been revealed that Ferenc Gyurcsány, Péter Medgyessy, your company, Tamás Harangozó, and even Viktor Szigetvári, have received such great, good assignments in preparing Paks, and that they happen to have signed the communication agreement with Viktor Szigetvári on behalf of MVM by Imre Martha. The communication contract that was about preparing for Paks' expansion in communication, and Viktor Szigetvári's company conducted a survey in which they encouraged him to suggest, even on the issue, that it was considered appropriate to expand Paks? Of course, then the political assembly, of which Viktor Szigetvári and others are members, has now been agitated against Paks after the elections. That's why I told you in the Paks debate, as you may recall, that at least you, who lived from Paks, made a fair, moderate and professional statement, unlike, let's say, the Congresswoman from Paks, your party partner. So, my dear Member, I advise you that if you have personal economic ties here in the background with the former MVM leader, Imre Martha, you should keep this to yourself, and in the debate of such an important law, you must not aggravate twice that Imre Martha's minority property should be protected. By the way, in a situation where there is not a single letter in the bill about the fact that here in the MVM you have to acquire the ownership of the minority owners, because you were surprisingly not acting in addition to the local governments, who are also minority owners, you mentioned it only once, but you said the name of Imre Martha twice, highlighting that she was the former MVM leader, and that you should also talk about her ownership. Honourable Congressman, I think that, in any case, if a turn of events were to happen that the Hungarian Electricity Works would be in 100% state ownership, it would be in the best interests of the Hungarian taxpayers, it would be in the interests of our national community, our country. I would ask Mr President, instead of representing private interests, that you should prefer to put Community interests first in the work of your representatives, which was not possible between 2002 and 10 when you were on the government. By the way, that is what Márius Révész referred to, and it seems that after so many election failures, they are unable to make this change. Overall, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this extremely important, thought-out and complex bill with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid until closure. The submission is T/2087. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I give the floor first to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-25-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is a member of the international donor community, in accordance with its national interests and taking into account the country's current capacity to cope with poverty, human and minority rights, sustainable development and international development cooperation to promote international security and stability, as well as humanitarian assistance to reduce the consequences of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, Our international development activity also promotes the development of our external relations, as well as the access of domestic economic operators to the external market and the expansion of the relations system of the public sector, such as education or health care, as well as the development of Hungarian knowledge and technology transfer. On this basis, international development cooperation policy and humanitarian aid should be an integral part of Hungary's external relations. The bill on international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid is an important tool to set a new direction for the implementation of these policies and to help achieve the goals set out in the international development strategy adopted by the Government in March of this year. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, the majority of Hungarian official development aid reaches its recipients through international organisations, but this significantly reduces the chances of bilateral contacts with partner countries and direct contacts in the framework of this assistance. In order to change this, our bill states that international development cooperation activities must be carried out primarily through bilateral cooperation with beneficiary countries, taking into account possible domestic economic and trade-enhancing effects. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For decades, our country has been taking part in catching up on the developing world. Today, there are several world leaders who have graduated with the help of the scholarship provided by Hungary. Since 1996, our country has been a member of the OECD, and since 2004 it has been a member of the European Union, thus being part of the political and economic community of the world's most developed countries, which treats the support of the catching up of developing countries not only as a priority but also as a morally binding task. The bill sets out principles among the general provisions, by which we not only express Hungary's commitment to international standards, but also contribute to increasing the effectiveness of policy implementation. Therefore, among the principles, honourable Members, there is a strong emphasis on sustainability, which is a value to which we must keep an eye on throughout this policy; the principle of aid effectiveness and the requirement of transparent and traceable use of resources. It is also intended to ensure the effective implementation of international development activities, that, on the basis of the bill, the Minister for Foreign Economy is obliged to draw up a policy strategy for a period of at least four years to identify, inter alia, the range of beneficiary partner countries and sectoral priorities. [[14.40]] Annual action plans should be drawn up for the financial and timely timing of strategic implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, Among the fundamental rules of implementation, the bill states that the Minister for Foreign Economy is responsible for international development cooperation and the Minister for Humanitarian Aid and its coordination is responsible for foreign policy. In addition to central government administrations and civil society organisations, which have already been active in implementation, increased involvement of economic operators is an important objective. For the sake of coordinated operation, an international cooperation and coordination committee and an agency for project-based activities will be set up. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill regulates policies with a framework character, the detailed implementing rules will be included until the entry into force of the legislation, i.e. a government decree to be drawn up by 1 July 2015 and ministerial regulations. I would ask my fellow Members to discuss the relevant and relevant bill. We look forward to the comments you make, and in the end, of course, we will ask that the Parliament contribute to the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-104	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-25-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Allow me to welcome you home again. It cannot be an easy situation, as we have heard you say many times during your visits to Western countries in recent weeks that Hungary is committed to the European Union and European values. Unfortunately, this was not the case at home in the course of action, as we have seen several times that both the EU flag and the national flag of our country were removed from the room by the Speaker. But I'd like to reassure you, because the government doesn't show its commitment to action, but the MSZP fact is doing its best? You can also see the flags on laptops - that Hungarian society and Hungary, which of course is not equal to the Hungarian government, are committed to EU values. Moreover, the bill before us is a very forward-looking bill, since the international development cooperation and international humanitarian aid law has long been advocated by domestic and international actors involved in policy implementation. And it is essential to welcome Hungary's contribution to the fight against poverty, human and minority rights, sustainable development and international development and cooperation activities aimed at promoting international security and stability, in line with its national interests and taking into account the country's strength. It is also involved in the reduction of the negative impact of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters through humanitarian assistance. Do we think it's relevant? and perhaps this could at last contribute to the preparation of a single foreign policy strategy - that the bill 6. The Minister for Foreign Economy shall prepare a policy strategy for a period of at least four years in order to plan international development cooperation activities and ensure consistency of policies for development purposes. The policy strategy sets out the range of beneficiary partner countries and identifies sectoral priorities. In doing so, it should cooperate with the ministries concerned and consult civil society. With all due respect, we would like to propose that the Hungarian parliamentary parties and professional organisations should be involved in this consultation. It is worth noting that we do not see the role and role of the Institute for Foreign Affairs and Trade in the context of planning and the preparation of a later action plan. We consider it to be supportive and good that it is a bill 8. According to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act on International Development Cooperation, central government bodies shall cooperate with civil society organisations and other social partners, in particular with the representatives of science, culture, interest representation bodies and parliamentary parties. Cooperation would take the form of regular information and consultation during policy-related legislation, planning, implementation and control. However, in the Ministerial Decree on the implementation of the Act, it would be worth clarifying the invitation to this regular information and consultation, the regularity of the meetings and whether the invited ones can make use of the agenda on the subject. We also consider it important that central government administrations involve economic operators in the implementation of international development cooperation activities that practice in line with international standards from a sustainable environmental and social point of view. The bill is 10. Paragraph 1 states which organisations may contribute to international humanitarian assistance. It lists humanitarian international, regional and local organisations, the central body of the professional disaster management body, ministries, Hungary's foreign representations, civil society organisations established in Hungary, the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, national organisations and economic operators. Here, there may be a fundamental question as to why churches are missing from this list. Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council According to § 1 (1) of the Act, the Government operates an inter-ministerial committee to coordinate international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance activities and to coordinate policies for development purposes. In our view, the Inter-Market Committee concerns a very limited range of these issues and should therefore play a role in this coordination at least with the aforementioned organisations, which I have listed. The bill does not show what agency the Minister intends to operate to facilitate the provision of project-based activities to increase the efficiency of international development cooperation and humanitarian assistance activities. A further paragraph of the proposal mentions that the Minister for Foreign Economy and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will report to the Government by 31 July each year on the international development cooperation and international humanitarian assistance activities of the previous year. The report shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, following its adoption by the Government. The question arises here why this report does not go to the Parliament's table, i.e. why the government only discloses it on the ministerial websites, and why the Parliament does not discuss it at least at committee level. Nor has the proposal shown us why the law will enter into force only on 1 July 2015. So this law is basically forward-looking. We would like to make a few amendments in this regard. As I have already said, we would like to see the involvement of Hungarian parliamentary parties, professional organisations, the Institute for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, in this policy strategy planned for four years, as well as the inclusion of religious communities in the list and order of organisations involved in international humanitarian aid; and, as I have said, we would suggest that the report that the Minister for Foreign Economy takes on international humanitarian aid activities should be submitted to Parliament and discussed at least at Commission level. We would like to ask you to support these amendments. Thank you for the floor. [[14.50]]
u2014-11-25-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, from the LMP Group. Speaking for Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, Parliamentary notary. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the same quote as the Minister started, but I will continue it in a different way, and I think I will come to a different outcome. As a member of the international donor community, Hungary participates in the fight against poverty, human and minority rights, sustainable development and international development cooperation activities aimed at promoting international security and stability, as well as humanitarian assistance to reduce the negative effects of crises caused by natural and civilisational disasters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the sentence quoted, which can be read in the general explanation of the law, I draw attention to the following key terms: in accordance with its national agenda, and to the promotion of sustainable development. In relation to the issue of national interest, the explanatory statement states: "Our international development cooperation activity facilitates the development of our external relations, the access of domestic economic operators to the external market, the participation of certain segments of the public sector, such as education, health care, and the development of domestic transfer of knowledge and technology. Sustainable development means the existence within the limits of the environment. We are well aware that today the global society does not meet this, because already in 2007 it used one and a half planets of ecological capacity to meet the needs of less than seven billion people at the time. Yet, we have only one planet, and overdoing means taking away opportunities from future generations, even though sustainable development requires us to live today so that future generations can meet their needs. Half-planetary excess means that already in the middle of August, the resources devoted to that year are exhausted, and we must take them away from the future to sustain our lives, some to sustain their undeserved poverty, others to their unbridled greed. It's like planning public finances with a 33 percent deficit, or the hostess emptys the chamber every 20 months. Well, interestingly enough, there are no limits to this shortage anywhere. In the half-planet of overreach, nation states take part in different ways. There are more people who are more obsessed with their environment, who are taking more resources than their ecological capacities would allow, and there are few who use less resources than their environment's capacities would allow. If everyone lived on our planet at the level of an average American citizen, we would need four Earths if we were to be based on the average citizen of the Union, and two and a half Earths would not be enough, but even with the average Hungarian standard of living, we would need more than 1.7 planets on Earth. If you look at the ecological load of different income groups, the most efficient use 5 global hectares, while the footprint of the lowest earners barely exceeds 1 hectare. For information: Biocapacity per capita is a total of 1.7 global hectares, i.e. three times that of the rich, while the poor use less than the opportunity they receive. If we look at the share of needs and available ecological capacities, the developed world countries are showing a strong deficit, and only the poorest countries would still have a modest sufficit. We know the ecological burdens and capacities of 152 nation states, 91 of which exceed the ecological capacities it receives, i.e. in a deficiting ecological sense. 85 percent of the world's population lives in these countries. Why did I tell you all this? Because, in view of the above, it is safe to say that the world's poor are ecologically carrying the rich on their backs, they are ensuring the operation of the terrestrial biosphere. In light of this, it should also be assessed who belongs to whom, who the donor really is. While developed countries, including Hungary, designate themselves as donors in terms of development aid, developing countries provide the developed world with a multiple of this donation by ensuring the functioning of the global environmental system without which the prosperity of human society can be questioned. We can then also ask what is really Hungary's national interest. The fundamental national interest of the developed world, including Hungary, is that the developing world does not sacrifice the ecological reserves of our planet for economic growth, as the developed world has already done. It should finally be said that the protection of the common good, in this case the global public good, is ahead of the selfish economic interests of individual nations and interest groups. The rate of negative changes is amazing. Since 1960, the per capita ecological footprint has increased by two and a half times and the per capita biocapacity has decreased by half. According to the 2012 updated live planetary report, we have lost half and 52 percent of the population of 10,000 vertebrate species tested since 1970. International development cooperation has a particular responsibility to mitigate this process, hopefully halting it, as the economic one-sidedness of international development cooperation was also a determining factor in the process of deterioration. It is possible that, from an economic point of view, many have benefited from this cooperation, but indigenousity, traditional culture and, not least, the natural environment have become the victim of this process. Of course, the world's poor are not consciously and self - sacrificingly consuming less and bearing less of their environment. They too claim the right and need to grow, and as we see it, they do not hesitate to sacrifice their environmental values when it comes to growth. The United Nations report on our shared future hoped that there would be economic growth that would, in absolute terms, separate from the increase in environmental burdens and the benefits of which would spread evenly across society. International development cooperation should only support such development if it is already declaring sustainable development among its objectives. The realisation of these ideas can be achieved in the domestic policy of international development cooperation if the law guarantees that the policy strategy for four years is planned for sustainable development and the strategy is examined. In this context, international development cooperation would only be supported by activities that promote the preservation of the good environmental status of the beneficiary country or the rehabilitation of degraded habitats, and would only allow the transfer of technologies for the sustainable use of the host country's resources. Above all, however, international development cooperation should promote a culture, approach, morality and knowledge of sustainable development. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-11-25-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr István Ájgyártó State Secretary if he wishes to respond to the two representatives' speeches. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[15.00]]
u2014-11-25-109	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I believe that very valuable speeches have been made, on the part of the government, on a number of aspects which can be considered eligible. I would like to suggest that in the detailed debate these are these? as those to be supported should be included in the proposals and, of course, further comments may be included in the draft legislation during the debates. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16 o'clock on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to the status of soldiers and war care until closure. The submission is T/2084. Number 2 is available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Defence and Police Committee as a designated committee. I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, Minister for Defence, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-25-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We can all see that the world around us is changing very quickly. The external security environment changes, domestic conditions change, and the internal situation of the defence changes. There is a need for change in a range of areas, old legal solutions simply do not solve a series of problems or actually hinder effective work. The purpose of these amendments is to clarify a number of laws concerning the defence sector. I therefore call on this House to adapt the legislation to the challenges of this international situation and to the demands of everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, Turning to specific provisions, I will start with the 1992 law on the status of civil servants. The amendment makes it possible, in particular, only in respect of the thousands of civil servants employed in the Hungarian Defence Service, so that the parties can derogate from the legal provisions on the basis of a written agreement. Thus, it is possible to employ a public servant other than a civil servant at other work within the defence for more than 44 working days by making it subject to the written consent of the civil servant. Let me come to a point of great importance, not precise, not formal. The amendment of the 1994 law on war care increases the allowance of war widows from HUF 21 375 to HUF 32 062 per month, based on the government's intention to be fair. I think that this increase of approximately one and a half times, which represents a surplus of 128 thousand forints a year, will be a great help to our already very old war widows. The parallel amendment of the Act of 2010 on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government and State Secretarys, the 2011 Act on Defence and the Hungarian Defence and Measures introduced in the Special Law, states that, unlike the main rule, the Deputy State Secretarys of the Ministry of Defence do not have heads of departments, but only head of department secretariats. This is based on a specific military hierarchy other than civil administration. This proposal avoids the proliferation of too high levels linked to the post and the breakdown of the pyramid image in the area of rank. The amendment of the 2011 Law on Defence and the Hungarian Defence also clarifies the details raised on the basis of practical experience. For example, it is proposed that the so-called out-of-service staff should have a clear legal basis for future military uniforms, for example, in the case of state leadership appointments. As a result of this amendment, temporary preparatory organisational elements can be set up by a ministerial decision to speed up any crisis management decisions in a public-law sense. And if you vote for the Honourable Parliament, then the Day of Defence, the celebration of Budavár's return, in memory of May 21, 1849, will now be a public holiday for all those working in defence, not just for the soldiers. The amendment to the Law of 2011 on the National University of Public Service provides further detailed rules for the reception and care of foreign students, so far it is only possible at the Faculty of Military Sciences of the National University of Public Service. If the proposal is adopted, is it another State? Are we, of course, allies and friendly states? military training may also take place for its citizens. In the context of the 2011 Law on the abolition of early retirement pensions, the proposal establishes a mutual obligation to provide data, taking into account the legal requirement for the designation of limitation to the target, between the Central Personnel Registry of the Defence Office and the Pension Plenipotentiary. The planned amendment to the 2012 Law on the Status of Patriots settles the presidential powers of the Republic in relation to the service relationship of the generals, which has not been regulated so far. The proposal establishes certain public service career model syncs, i.e. aligns the different public service careers and thus significantly facilitates their interoperability; in this respect, we make text-focusing proposals. It is proposed to simplify the possible takeover of military personnel subject to the 1996 Law on the Service of Professional Members of Armed Bodies, such as, say, the transfer of a police officer to the Defence Service and its military training. The proposal addresses certain issues of career advancement depending on the waiting period. The monthly gross additional allowance of HUF 10 000 has been extended to the lower-wage crew and petty staff since 1 January of this year, to those who have not yet received basic training as a starting partner, but who will be expected to be in senior posts. It is a transitional rule that, until 31 December 2017, senior lieutenants may be appointed before time. This is a temporary need to address the disruptions caused by careers and careers in the context of the shift in retirement age. The proposal also clarifies, in the light of practical experience, the rules for the payment of the absence fee due during the period of exemption from duty. The amendment gives the Director-General the opportunity to define further aspects and content elements in addition to the general guiding aspects of the performance assessment of the Service at the Military National Security Service and, to that end, to lay down different rules. In short, these are the issues that this bill is about. I would ask honourable Members to discuss and accept this proposal, which will make the work of the defence easier and smoother. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-112	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, I give the floor to Mrs Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-25-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, In his speech, the fact that he mentioned positives, let me start with that. I would also like to highlight the increase in the monthly regular allowance for widows of war, which has so far been 75 percent of the minimum old-age pension, and the proposal raises this to 112.5 percent. [[15.10]] I think that this is welcome, by the way, but I would like to stress here that, nevertheless, this amount is still very low. And here I would like to point out that it is natural for us to look at the social environment, the conditions in which this law will otherwise be implemented, in the general debate of a law. We can't just walk away from what's happened in the field of defence over the last few years. It appeared that the government itself not only managed the Hungarian Defence Forces on a residual basis, but consciously drew huge resources from this area. Of course, we are regularly listening to the success propaganda, but I am also very pleased that you have mentioned this in the context of this career, Minister. Basically, the amendment of the law on the status of soldiers still does not create the foundations and the path that, by the way, will have to stand up and work in a very short period of time, since? which is also very welcome, and I would also like to highlight this here at the beginning of my speech, right, with an average increase of 30 percent from mid-2015, members of the armed forces, to which you can expect? Is that what I think? It was about time, for we all know very well that these people would give their lives for our safety, for the safety of our families. So I think that, after the dire circumstances of recent years, this has been the minimum and, of course, we welcome this step, but it is obvious that in the current legislative amendment this should see some tangible sign. It doesn't show yet. I would like to highlight with regard to the law, returning to the increase in the allowance for widows of war, that we know that since 2008, the minimum amount of old-age pension has not increased by a penny, and that is only HUF 28 500. I was referring to this fact that despite the fact that the government's propaganda is saying that Hungary is doing better, we know that small pensioners do not feel anything about it. From this proposal, that this pension is supplemented by this law, it can be concluded that otherwise the Government will not seek to increase the minimum amount of the old-age pension. You can see they're changing the odds. I would like to point out, in relation to the development of salaries, that the situation of civil servants will not improve in the Hungarian Defence Office at this time, as professional members will receive this average 30 percent salary increase. The fact that the civil servant's salary is HUF 38 650 must be addressed in any way, and this has been frozen for years, so this must also be dealt with in any way. In addition, does the proposal only allow, but does it not provide for the provision of remuneration if, during domestic missions, travel is out of service and I think it is unacceptable to maintain that rule as well? We can even say that it is confirmation - that a volunteer reserve soldier who is actually entitled to service is obliged to perform actual service without remuneration for 60 days a year. I would like to point out here that, on the basis of the data provided until 31 May 2014, the voluntary operational reserve pool was grouped by age, half of it was over 51 years of age. So it seems that those former pensioners who were deprived of their pension status by the government, those who suffered a 16 per cent deduction corresponding to the level of personal income tax at the time, were forced into this reserve system, since this deduction would not be made unless they were involved in this system, which was not set up in such a way? to our great regret - as there was also a consensus in 2009 between the ruling parties and the opposition. I would like to refer to the 2012 law on the status of soldiers in a few sentences because, in addition to hoping that the introduction of a career could be based on the current amendment, which is not visible in it, we also hoped that the passage of the 2012 law on the status of soldiers reflecting a very bad defence policy would also be corrected. We were hoping that the government would correct the mistakes that he made in that, and that was absolutely the image of a failed defence policy. This was also the case in the 2012 Law on the Status of Patriots, but the section on the status of pensioners in force was essentially limited to the rules on the wearing of uniforms, leaving out, among other things, the provisions on pensioner's ID, rank-bearing and benefits. The proposal does not contain the rules for a lighter service introduced when the service pension system is abolished, and we remember the torture that trade unions had to endure in this area, since trade union rights are guaranteed by the draft with the same restrictions as those in force from 1 January 2012. They reduced the working time discount, the lower protection of trade union officials, the lack of an institution of objection, and, moreover, the retention of members was extremely difficult for trade unions by the government. They're all not fixed. In this proposal, the appointment of the military chief of staff in this law has made it possible to cement the position of the current Chief of Staff. I would like to point out that, at the end of the Act on the Status of Patriots, which was created in 2012, other laws were also defined, which were amended by this law, and in this context, we still have a far-reaching disagreement that almost any data and information can be classified and encrypted if the Minister of Defence and the Chief of the Honvéd Chief of Staff consider this to be necessary. This could be the case for any data relating to the operation of the defence, so it is also a complete exclusion of the public in cases where it is not certain that this would be justified at all. The amount of the stand-by allowance has been reduced, allowing members of the staff to waive their daily subsistence allowance abroad, because they claim that they cannot cover it in many cases and that there is a complete lack of a chapter governing the forms of recognition of military service, a significant reduction or a lack of rules on retirement, social and grace benefits. But what was very important then was the set itself for the government and the sugar glaze that can be used to pour down the mistakes of the time; for example, putting the protection of the crown into the oath text with courage to the point of self-sacrifice. I would also like to point out, in connection with the current legislative amendments, that we will find an article in which the defence organisations must be designed in accordance with the peaceful and war order in order to be able to carry out the tasks defined for the defence as a whole and for certain elements thereof. [[15.20]] The organisational structure of the military shall comply with the principles and requirements of the organizational hierarchy, military equipment and military equipment for the intended purpose, the management, the number of personnel, the number of posts, the categories of rank, the categories of rank, the controlled operation, the principles and requirements of management. During a crisis management period, the Minister for Defence decided that certain organisational elements of the management system applicable to defence organisations during the special legal order period could be operated temporarily in order to improve the efficiency of the decision preparation process. As I understand it, the Minister also referred to this article in his speech. [[Csaba Hende: That's right.]] I would like to ask what this crisis management means in particular, what the government is thinking here, because in the special legal order period as an emergency, emergency state, emergency state, preventive defense situation and unexpected attack, this is not included, so this is a different situation. I would like to know exactly what you mean by this, because this is not a special legal situation, but it still requires a different management system from the time of peace, and the government and the Ministry of Defence have already set up a management system, so the question arises as to why the extension of ministerial powers is so necessary. So I'll thank you for that, if you'll just answer me. If it is considered that this is necessary, then it is certainly worth even more regulation, because for the time being, we think that this may even give rise to excessive powers, which may not be necessary. So, on the whole, it can be said about this amendment, that it makes minor changes, that it has positive elements, and I am thinking of the war widows, but, unfortunately, the expectation that, I think, that not only as a opposition party, we have raised towards the amendment here, but also very rightly the entire population of the Hungarian Defence Office could expect to improve conditions in order to improve efficiency; that, by the way, the 30 percent salary increase can be properly achieved; that, by the way, the career that has been promised for years and nothing has happened, in addition to the fact that it is possible to go to the MÁV to work for the post office, I think that this is certainly not a satisfactory option. So a balanced system of advancement is needed and a perspective is needed to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces can continue to carry out their task properly. And here again, I would like to highlight the sacrifice of our soldiers and defence workers and their commitment to literally maintaining the functionality of the Hungarian Defence Forces, because unfortunately, there are almost no other circumstances. We see that while there was a promise from 2016 to increase the Hungarian Defence budget by 0.1 per cent of GDP, Minister stressed this in the debate on the budget, I recall that he said in several forums that it would be promoted, the truth is that even this 0.1 per cent increase in GDP is not visible from next year's budget. So it looks like the defense's back on the line again. Although this increase in salary was the minimum that could be expected to remain in the Hungarian Defence Corps, and no further increase in fluctuations and abandonment, it would also be necessary to ensure the operating conditions, this is not at all apparent from the budget of. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-25-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Péter Agh is next as lead speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, There are a number of amendments to the laws before us, all of which are necessary because, since they have been introduced, there have been various practical questions about what the wallet and Parliament have been trying to deal with in accordance with the challenges of the age, and I think that on this basis we can highlight a number of points from this bill that our faction considers important. The submission is made in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 2 (2). The aim of the article is to increase by 50 percent the rate of the monthly regular allowance for war widows in Act 94 on War Care. Under the current legislation, the rate of the monthly allowance for widows of war is adjusted to the minimum amount of the old-age pension, which has remained at HUF 28 500 since 2008. Accordingly, widows currently receive 21 375 HUF per month. By way of the proposal, increasing the monthly allowance for widows from 70 percent to 112.5 percent means an extra HUF 10 688 per person per month. We believe that this is a serious change, which is a very important result of the current bill. Article 4 of the proposal is replaced by the following: Does Section 5 already amend Hvt. with the intention that changes in the environment of foreign and security policy make it necessary, on certain occasions, for the Hungarian Defence Office to be organised in each crisis situation? depending on the nature of the crisis? may be temporarily altered. This requires the Minister to have the power to decide on the establishment of organisational elements adapted to that function, in order to take and support mainly central administrative or operational management decisions. That is why all these changes are needed. It has come up here on behalf of our Socialist fellow Member, why this is necessary. I believe that there are situations in which, indeed, the Minister must be given those powers so that he can act effectively to protect all of us. The submission was made in 18, 19. §a of the Hjt. amend its rules governing the conduct of another body in such a way as to provide for an opportunity to conduct an indefinite period of conduct on the basis of an agreement between the Minister and the Head of another body, instead of a definite 5 plus 5 year period. In addition, the proposal would ensure that the salary or monthly salary of the member of the staff established by the other body is not less than the amount of the absentee salary due for the whole month preceding his/her management. In addition, the proposal clarifies, in the light of practical experience, the rules for the payment of the absence fee due during the period of exemption from the obligation to perform duties. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal also contains a number of other clarification provisions and addresses problems and experiences in practical life. On the basis of the points presented by the rapporteur and by me, I believe that the bill contains the amendments in an appropriate manner, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the bill. At the same time, we would like to express our group's thanks to Minister for Defence Csaba Hende for the excellent work he has done in our opinion in order to increase the appreciation of the Hungarian Defence Forces both in Hungary and in the world. We believe that this was necessary after socialist governance. There was also a need to introduce different funds. Our socialist fellow Members call this sugar glaze, and we believe that all of this is necessary because on a moral and national basis they can also mean the basic position for the Hungarian Defence Office. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Kulcsár is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, As important as this proposal concerns, allow me at the outset to take a little detour, of course, on the subject of defence. During the budgetary debate, we did not have a chance to exchange ideas with the Minister in person, so I would like to say a few things. The proposal is important, and Jobbik supports a lot of things in this, but there are defence issues that are urgent, and I would like some thoughts about them at the beginning before I get to the draft law itself. As I have mentioned several times in this House, Hungary's spending 0.75 percent of GDP on defence is extremely small. This is the 25th of the 28 NATO member states, according to the NATO Secretary-General's report, and I believe that this is unsustainable. [[15.30]] This must be increased in any way, by methods, by laws, but this must be gradually increased and not achieved by 2022, but as soon as possible. There are no tangible results in the next year's budget, neither in increasing the number of defences, nor in the technical field. Action is also needed as soon as possible in this regard. I would ask the honourable Minister to present legislative proposals on these issues and to address these issues which are very important for our country's security. And then I'll get to you on the bill. It is included in the Public Employees Act that, if the parties agree in writing, they may derogate from the employment contract in the course of employment. This part is also eligible for Jobbik, making employment more flexible within the defence, and in many cases it will be necessary to apply it in practice in this profession. With the amendment of the law on war care, the increase in the allowance for war widows is, of course, agreed with Jobbik, just as the fixing of the public fund for war care enjoys Jobbik's support. But in connection with this, there is a question that has come to mind about what will happen to the war orphans, which has somehow been left out of the proposal. This will be discussed in detail by my fellow Member, Mr Staudt. With regard to amendments to the Defence Act, previous speakers also mentioned the new rule that was included in the bill that, on the basis of a ministerial decision in the context of crisis management, certain organisational elements of the management system applicable to defence organisations in the special legal order period could be operated temporarily in order to improve the efficiency of the preparatory process. I would also like to know why this has been included in the proposal, and what exactly does this mean in practice. When rethinking the rules of wearing uniforms, I could funnyly mention that if state leaders can wear uniforms in the field of operations, whether the Prime Minister's uniform is already being manufactured according to the latest fashion. But seriously, wearing a uniform is a very important issue. Because it is important that people meet soldiers in everyday life, in everyday life. Because this does not happen, we do not see soldiers on the street, and in the spirit of respect and respect for the army, the military, it is important that people meet more people in uniform on everyday life. When I was a kid, I had that, obviously because of the military commitment, but that's also important because soldiers could get closer to the civilian population and increase their sense of security. The fact that we have a military and it has meaning and purpose from the point of view of the Hungarian nation would once again become public. The fact that the 21st of May will be the day of Hungarian defence, of course we support it, this is an important thing, together with the public holidays, Jobbik will have the maximum support for this part of the proposal. However, the amendment of the Law on the National University of Public Service raises doubts that foreign students can participate in the training of military personnel under an inter-ministerial agreement. We thought that the practice so far, that not in military training, only foreign students could study in civilian education, was good. We do not understand why this opportunity is being opened right now and whether it raises any risk for our country. The enlargement of the powers of the President of the Republic under the authority of the Fundamental Law, which affects the relationship with the generals, in terms of appointment, promotion and termination, is fundamentally supported. However, I would like to address a question that is not the Minister's desk. The enlargement of the power of the President of the Republic is important and must be supported, but the election of the President of the Republic by Parliament and not by the people is unacceptable to us. It's in Jobbik's program so that the President of the Republic doesn't get elected by the National Assembly. There are several provisions that I do not wish to mention individually, rules on management, decommissioning aid, enlargement of the rules on progress, which we can also support. But I'd like to go to one of those points, 31. Section 2 of the Act on the increase of benefits other than wage. This is basically a good thing, of course, to increase benefits. However, it should also be noted that if we spent less on things that are irrelevant to our country and things that are not conducive to our national interests, I am thinking about engagement in Afghanistan and other costs that we consider unnecessary, there would be more money left to improve the living conditions of soldiers. This is also an important issue that should be highlighted and greater wage increases should be made for the military. We will make amendments to the aforementioned issues, to the training of foreign personnel at the University of Public Service, and to other issues. We hope that these amendments will be accepted by the governing party. Overall, if these are implemented, the proposal can be supported, enjoying Jobbik's support. However, at the end of my speech, I would like to emphasise once again the need to increase expenditure on the development of forces. There is a need to increase national defence support in line with GDP, because we still believe that it is unacceptable that we are forces among NATO Member States in this area as well. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, the notary of the Parliament, is coming. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The bill embraces many areas, most of them regulates daily life, mechanical operation. There's nothing wrong with that, because there are positive suggestions. However, before we are lost in the confusion of many legislative amendments, I would like to point out that there are proposals here that affect the lives of thousands of people, not necessarily positively. This is the next paragraph, which has a negative impact on the lives of thousands of volunteers. Its name is no longer true, either, because volunteering is based on an enforced volunteering from which the law is separate. In addition, they changed the lives of those affected by retroactive legislation, degraded the legal pension into a service obligation, without any professional consultation. That is why we are proposing to eliminate the impossible and unjust situation of a voluntary reserve soldier who is entitled to serve in practice beyond 60 days of mandatory call time, even for an unlimited call period, as a free reserve slave or otherwise known as a reserve military unpaid public servant, working in various places of service, replacing professional staff. This situation is particularly unfair to those who have civil reserve jobs, who are already subject to a quasi-revenue limit of one and a half times the minimum wage. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-25-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Since there is no independent congressman in this room, it is now possible to make a two-minute comment. Mr. László Kiss is next. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-121	Thank you very much for the floor. I asked for these two minutes of concern for the Minister, because the news in the press came out a few days ago that the Minister's chair was fluttering. And then it came to light that it wasn't in the winter that his discharge took place, but only in the summer. Now...
u2014-11-25-122	Congressman! There is only room for debate as set out in the bill, and there is no such personal debate. So, Congressman, either you acknowledge or I am obliged to warn you and to withdraw from the floor. [[15.40]]
u2014-11-25-123	I have one sentence, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-124	Congressman, if you continue to do the same, I will exclude you from today's debate.
u2014-11-25-125	Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask you, Mr. President? I would like to continue - from the Minister, whether he will continue to supervise the implementation of the law as a minister, and that is what I wanted to worry about. Because now that my fellow Member Péter Agh complimented you, I have a little bit of a picture of a living partner being complimented and retired before retirement. I'm just concerned about Minister, whether you will oversee the implementation of the law as a minister. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-11-25-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm keeping what I said unchanged. Mr Staudt Gábor will be followed by a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, After such serious thoughts, it is difficult to speak. [[Defiance.]] But the subject is very important, what we have ahead of us, and I would particularly like to talk about the question of warcareers. Allow me to join the good-looking speakers on the other issues, and will we? My colleague from Mirkóczki? I want to make a comment. I would also like to focus on a subject in order to highlight the importance of the issue of warcareers. I'd go a little further in time, and I'd deal not only with the present, but also with the past, because they're related to the 1994 XLV. Passes of law with the past. What's this about? Back in the day, after the war was lost? I mean, World War II? Unfortunately, the wards are in a rather ignominious situation. A situation that was unprecedented among the warring countries. This was mainly due to the Rákosi system and the communist dictatorship that this shameful situation... [[Csaba Hende nods.]] ? Minister too nodding, so there is no debate between us - communism has caused this shameful situation. I emphasized that it was unprecedented for other countries, because even where there were Communist countries, the people who fought for their country, because they fought for their country, who fell or were injured on either side of the front, were appreciated so much that they, if they were injured, were paid the right benefits; if they left an orphan, they were properly cared for, or even their widows were constantly cared for, regardless of why or how they were injured. This was not the case in Hungary. They say that the most dirty breed of communists in Hungary has been given to Hungarian people. Otherwise, the regulation and what was done to the Hungarian people and to the Hungarian war invalids and war-careers perfectly expresses this attitude, the attitude of the Hungarian Communists to the Hungarian people. Returning to the exact facts: In 49, the Rákosi regime abolished the organizational system of the War Care Association, their work was banned, and their own money-buying headquarters was otherwise nationalized. This concerned not only this at the time, but also, unfortunately, all private property, factories, cooperative and association property, which was private or public property. And as I said, these benefits have been withdrawn from people in need. In 1990, the Alliance of Warcareers was re-established as a civil society organisation that took on the interest of war criminals and war widows. By the way, in 1949, the number of war-careers was 800,000; we can see how many of our countrymen were affected by this proposal, and their relatives still affect a lot of people today. Unfortunately, in 1994, when the 1994 XLV. law was passed by the Parliament, then it did not properly settle the compensation of these people. Of course, there are many ways to settle this, but our view is that the one-off payment that was given to them did not really represent how much benefit they had fallen from. After all, the year 1933 was the year VII. The law set out the exact amount of benefits for war-wreckers. On the basis of this, it can be calculated exactly how much loss that was taken from these people could have meant for several decades, which could, if appropriate, be converted into real value, and on this basis, could have been calculated for lost income. At the time, the Parliament chose a different way and made a lump sum payment of a much lower amount than that. Do I really want to? Or perhaps this is now some kind of mourning about the bad decisions of long past times, but I would like to say, in the name of the people who have been affected by this, that this has not been over-experienced, and indeed, a very bad taste in the mouth has been experienced by many people in this way. For this reason, I also submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament on 5 November 2012. Unfortunately, at the time, the Defence Committee did not support the inclusion of this series of subjects. Minister was there, you may remember when we had this debate on the committee there. There he justified, if I remember correctly, that there is no adequate framework to do so, and that the 1994 XLV. The government considers this compensation process to be closed by law. But I would draw attention to this problem again, and it would be good to make up for the benefits withdrawn for political reasons since 22 December 1944. However, it is very important, and we welcome, of course, that in this proposal, which has been tabled to us, the benefits of war widows are increasing. This is, of course, good and we welcome you, Minister, but as my good-looking fellow Member, who spoke before me, it would also be good to make such an increase in the case of war orphans and war-care families. Do I know that this is usually due to financial reasons? I think Minister will respond to it - but mainly because, in the case of war orphans, we are talking about 30% of the minimum pension, i.e. 8550 forints, so even less, which, if we do raise it, might not cost us the amount that it would not be possible to manage elsewhere. So I would like to raise these two issues, and we will also present an amendment to this. So we would like it to change, and for war orphans and war-care families, there would also be an increase in the rate set by the current legislation, so that they would receive higher benefits. Isn't that 8500 forints a month a serious amount of money to raise with whatever it takes? Regardless of the fact that I think that this could be done by several orders of magnitude - but even a small increase at least symbolizes that we are thinking of them. Of course, I know that a few thousand forints may only appear at the level of symbolism, but believe me, Minister, even symbolic decisions are very important to these people in addition to financial decisions. So, if possible, I would like to ask you to support these amendments, or, where appropriate, to try to resolve this situation with your own amendments. What I said here, however, about the missed benefits withdrawn under communism, I am aware of the government's position, of course, I am very pleased if this has changed in the meantime, but, Minister, if you think that a lot of people here have received compensation and compensation from the Hungarian state, many times, many times, and not in the case of specific incomes that are measurable, but rather as a kind of damages fee, I think that the demand of these people, who do not wish anything else, was much more justified in the 1990s than to receive their missed benefits. Then, to do this in real terms...? it would otherwise have been the most fair or the most fair, if this had been done or paid in real terms with the appropriate interest rates. [[15.50]] But I have to say that any solution would be better suited to real damage than what the Parliament did in 1994. I think it might be possible to get cover for that. One more very important thing, and I will finish it, Mr President: in my proposal for a resolution, it was also stated that those who lived in 1992 could inherit these benefits for those directly related to the branch, because not only did the Communist dictatorship take these funds from those people, these benefits, but also from their entire family. So I would like to ask you, Minister, to reconsider this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was also Mr Adam Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I am trying not to repeat the points that have already been said by the speakers before me, especially as regards my own faction, and I would like to add more to them and draw attention to a few points which, if not directly related to this bill, are certainly suitable for future reflection. The first word is perhaps to thank Minister, because a few weeks ago, at a defence committee meeting, when the status of the various forces, brigades and instruments was mentioned, Minister promised that he would provide an opportunity for the members of the committee, whether the members of the Defence and Police Committee or the National Security Committee, to personally experience how and in what state the Hungarian defence is, and he kept it correct, because now we have the opportunity to participate regularly in squad visits, which I also thank on behalf of myself and others. For what I am saying, my speech is inspired, for example, by one of these team visits, and I think that it is more fair and more responsible to conduct such a debate if we have personally experienced the current challenges, problems and opportunities or frameworks of what and where we can move. Is that more than that? perhaps almost everything regardless of party status? said the speaker, and I believe that the Minister does not dispute this, either, that the amount spent on the Hungarian defence of GDP, which is just above 0.7, does not allow for the kind of modernisation and expectation that the current state would require. At the same time, it may certainly encourage us to find them at the expense of other areas for the future, that the Hungarian Defence Office is the 21st. Let's put him in the right state of the century. When we are talking about legal status and discussing or drawing up such legislative proposals, there is no way around pay and it is partly mentioned in the proposal. It is certainly gratifying that the Ministry is thinking in a career model and intends to solve the Hungarian Defence Agency's wages according to its potential. I think that this may be a priority, because young people will find it very difficult to choose this career without motivation. Talking with soldiers, officers, deputy officers, this is a general problem, how can I say, recruitment agencies or physical fitness are one of the major problems that immediately decimate young people who are applying or interested and later pay. Unfortunately, we have experienced that in many cases many soldiers are forced to take second jobs to maintain their family at the right level. Therefore, it is absolutely justified to improve their pay and to introduce a certain career model to a level that achieves at least the minimum objective of not requiring the different soldiers to take second jobs. When it comes to motivation for young people, in Debrecen, I was happy to see that after the big-big strike, there is a high school again, where young students can choose the military career and socialize in it. I was pleased to experience this because I remember that after the 8th grade of primary school, I started high school at Lenkey János Honvéd High School in Eger, and I had the opportunity to meet many officers, deputy officers, who, if not my classmates, all graduated from Lenkey in Eger. It was sad to see how the second half of the nineties first struck down military colleges in Hungary - Nyíregyháza, I do not want to list them - and then the two remaining military high schools, the Eger and the Győr. As a constructive criticism, would I suggest to the Ministry that it is worth considering in the medium to long term that these military high schools should be considered? Whether high school or vocational high school, but should it be a dorm? Opening up in some regions, because I believe that this would be a serious step in terms of supply that is currently lacking. It is also a pleasure to have one of these in Debrecen, but this is also a problem said by the soldiers and the officer's staff, so soldiers from the civilian schools, from the civil career to the defence force, are less rooted in such a level and are less likely to remain at a level such as those who graduate in military high school and then in higher education, the strength and dedication that I think is essential, a much more serious factor. What I would like to point out is that here is an eternal debate between Jobbik and perhaps all the other parties on how we stand in our NATO membership and foreign engagement. Is it not our own problem that our soldiers take part in various international missions, since the soldiers themselves tell us that they are not solely for financial reasons? Of course, it is also a serious motivation in these missions - but it is a great experience for a soldier to have a huge challenge, and now if I wanted to play ball, I could also say that such a foreign participation is an adventure. But unfortunately? what I want to refer to - as long as the Hungarian Defence Forces are in this state, and this is obviously not the sole responsibility of the current government, but this is a legacy of many decades, it is not certain that we should spend this amount exclusively on foreign missions. How much more effective would it be from the point of view of putting the defence in order if these amazing amounts of our NATO membership were not an option, since since we have been in the alliance, there are obviously different amounts in each Member State; if we look at the 2015 draft budget now, I have not counted all the items and all the lines that represent only our financial burdens arising from NATO, if I remember correctly, about 7,000 billion forints, I don't know exactly how many hundred were there? If necessary, I will collect this for the next speech - which only concerns NATO in relation to different items. Do I think that if this amount is any size if we're just talking about 1,000 billion? a significant part or even all of it could be spent only 1-2-3 years on the modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Service, whether on the equipment park or on the arms park or on the payroll, then it would be a very spectacular development not only in terms of efficiency, but also in terms of dedication and? Have we talked about motivation? from the point of view of the application, and then we could think about our place and role in the European Union. Or we are in a rather specific situation right now, because we have a conflict in our neighbourhood. But if we are honest and do not want to deceive ourselves and ask the question: if there were a problem, which also directly affects Hungary, then how effective the current defence would be to prevent all this, I think that there is still a lot of work to be done here. [[16.00]] And what really motivated my comment was that it was natural that it didn't go overnight. But I think that a few years of medium- and long-term strategy, a strategy that, where appropriate, needs to be agreed on, should not change from government change to government change, because whatever the political or political composition of the next government cycles is, it should not change from government change to government change, but rather achieve a strategy that runs through cycles that is minimum for everyone. And here education is very important, military education is very important, and it is very important that the amount of money spent year after year on the budget, specifically spent on the Hungarian Defence Office, should not be damaged by the fact that there will be a different political composition of a parliament or the formation of a government. So I think that this is our primary and most important task and challenge now, in 2014-2015, and if we can achieve a consensus in this, then I think that the future of the Hungarian Defence Service is really on a positive path. However, this is, of course, moving forward at many points in the proposal, and I trust that it will be even better with the amendments to be tabled, and I hope that the governing parties will also basically look at its content, not the petitioner, and indeed a proposal that will be adopted based on consensus and appropriate for everyone. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Mr László Teleki is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that the career model within the defence can create a very important picture of the situation. During the morning, I spoke about extreme poverty, poverty, hopelessness, and now I must say that what Minister did to my fellow Roma people in the field of employment has been outstanding over the past period, because it was possible to see how many people could go into the lines of defence and start a life or career that was very important to them. The programme that has been announced, I think, clearly and clearly shows that if the government had done its job on a different basis and in a similar way as the Ministry of Defence, we would not be here today with poverty and extreme poverty. So I think it is very important to follow this further, so that young people within the defence can find their calculations, who want to make such a career model. I am also saying this because, following the change of regime, the biggest problem is that the Roma have been excluded from the labour market, and many times we make them responsible for why they cannot find employment. I think that both sides should be examined and that the opportunity to return to the labour market should be given, and I think that this is exactly what the Ministry of Defence has been a good example of in recent years, given this opportunity. Knowing the work of various recruitment agencies, and even as a member of the stock, I spoke to many people who also said that this was a very important step. I hope that, in the next period, Roma young people will be given the opportunity to serve within the borders of the defence, not only at home but also at international level, but also at various missions. I ask that the Minister pay particular attention to this. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Minister for Defence Csaba Hende, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2014-11-25-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for this unexpectedly lively and meaningful debate, which has emerged here in the context of the seemingly technical amendment law. I thank you for the words of praise in the same way as the critical words; if I may, I would prefer to respond to the critical words. In the beginning, with the benefits, the wages, the increase in the pay of war widows, let me at least state a well-known political aphorism and movement in relation to material issues: there is nothing a government can say in which the opposition can't say one more. So it's a standard thing to raise salaries by 30 percent, of course it's not enough, you need more? say those who for eight years have not raised their salaries by a single forint. Let's put it on the balance, though, that the last significant salary increase in the defence was in 2002, in the last year of the first Orbán government! Of course, it is possible to minimize the extra HUF 10 688 per month to be paid to war widows in the future, but believe me, a poor widow whose normal pension, along with which she receives the allowance of the war widow, which in this way exceeds HUF 30,000, this plus HUF 10 thousand, which is nearly HUF 130,000 per year, believe me that it is very significant, it is very helpful for her expenses, her medicines, her everyday life. I would first like to respond to Mrs Márta Demeter's speech that, after recent years of distress, this was the least we could do to raise the salary of the Hungarians by 30 percent next year. We agree, it's just that in recent years, the worst of all, it's been during your administration, when the wage increase was zero, that is, zero, and the salary increase in the military. It raises the situation of civil servants. Of course, if we raise the salary of the soldiers, you can say, but why not the salary of others. That is because we are now raising the soldiers, my honourable fellow Member; the government will properly settle everyone's situation. Several of my fellow Members have raised the situation of the voluntary reserve system and the reserve soldiers in it. There was coercion here, there were all kinds of nasty expressions; our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, spoke of coercion and slaves. Let's get this straight. Our fellow Member, Mr Demeter, also said that why didn't we build a reserve system that they decided to build in 2009. Dear Parliament, The fact is that in 2004 the reserve system was thrown out of the window by abolishing the peace-time military commitment. In 2004, Hungary had hundreds of thousands of trained reserve soldiers, and in 2005 there were none, and this was maintained, my fellow Members, until 2010. The Hungarian Defence Forces were perhaps the only army in the world that had no tangible reserve power at the time of the change of government. It's a unique world record. By the way, Finland, 5 million people, until recently, had 500,000 reserve soldiers. I'm visiting South Korea tomorrow, and in preparation, I stumbled upon the fact that there are more than 4 million reserve soldiers in South Korea; of course, in a completely different security situation. But let us note that between 2004 and 2010, the socialist left-wing governments abolished the former reserve system and gave nothing for it; they developed a paper, a concept, and I would like to take account of its implementation. Compared to this, there are currently 5.5 thousand reserve soldiers of the Hungarian Army, more than 1200 of them, for example, were excellent at the Great Danube Flood last year, and they were deployed and applied. So the system has proven its functionality in practice. No one has been forced into the voluntary reserve system, my fellow Members, they have used one option, they have accepted an incentive when the service pensions have been abolished, they have become due, and as with all other pre-retirement income, the law has been charged with 16 percent income tax and sja. [[16.10]] Then we asked for and received the opportunity to make an offer to former colleagues who went into service at a very young age, not only for soldiers, but also for policemen and firefighters, to come to a reserve soldier and with the reserve service to obtain the right not to have to pay 16 percent tax on their stipend. Does that mean they're practically getting the same amount of money as they were before the retirement pension was lifted? Forint-forint-for-money they receive the same amount - they only carry out reserve military service, so they assume this burden; the public square is placed in this form after the benefits they have received before the retirement age. I don't think that's coercion. It's an opportunity. One could choose to go to work in addition to his stipend, which is not compatible with the voluntary reserve service, so he would rather pay 16 percent after his dues, since he could earn much more if he was in another job. It was a weighing, a free individual decision, so forcing and slavery, please do not speak in this House, because it is unworthy of those former officers, officers, contract and professional soldiers who, hearing the voice of the caller, and otherwise, in a manner appropriate to their own individual financial interests, decided, of their own free will, to put on the uniform again, and although not all young, not all twenty-year-olds, are ready and able to do so. I met many over fifty reserve soldiers on the dams in the Danube bend, in Margaret Island, and elsewhere, who, self-sacrificingly and cheerfully, did not force the country into this role, defended the country, fulfilled their duty, and caught the greatest flood of all time in the Danube with the actual population and half the country. Please don't insult these people by being slaves. They're grown-up, self-made military men. The correction of the 2012 Status Act was not the responsibility of this submission. Mrs Márta Demeter raises questions that have actually been included in the law in order to expand their opportunities for the sake of the stock. I'll give you an example. He said that the law, O shame, would allow for a waiver of the daily allowance. Do you like to know why this provision is born? I'll tell you. Last year, the young cadets of the Ludovika battalion, our future officers, were invited by Theresianum in Vienna, the former Monarchy's other famous officer training institute, to take a study trip, a visit to Austria. The reason why this trip, this study trip, was not possible is because the legislation did not allow them to give up the daily allowance, which they would have gladly done, because the Austrian party had undertaken to provide them, we could have been able to bear the transport costs, but there was no budget for the daily allowance. Do you understand? So, obviously, he resigns when it's in his best interest in such cases. You accuse the law of creating this flexibility for the future. I don't think that's an entirely valid excuse or opinion from you. You will speak up when you learn that anyone in such a case has been encouraged or forced to give up their daily allowance. It calls for a justification for the temporary organisation scheme. I do not want to go into repetitions, for example, my fellow Member, Mr Péter Ágh, has given me a detailed explanation for this, but if you think we can continue this debate. You said we've been promising careers for years, but nothing happened. It is not true, since we have already created a series of legal guarantees of interoperability between public service careers in 2013. Why are you saying something that is untrue, my honourable fellow Member? There was a lot of talk about the military career model. Thank you so much for taking such an intuitive interest in him. I would like to say once again that it is not just about raising salaries, but also about a predictable system of advancement, a guaranteed state employment for those who, for whatever reason, cannot be attributed to them? Should it be age, disease, loss of status? They're being pulled out of the defense system. We will guarantee them re-training, and we will guarantee a worthy state location. But this already means the new order of housing care, housing insurance, it will be our hope that, from 2016, the entire public service will have a very preferential housing loan for access to housing property, and it will also mean the setting up of a special public service insurance company, a state-owned insurance company, to ensure the life and physical integrity of police officers, soldiers, firefighters, and thus to provide an additional benefit in the event of illness, death and disability. So, the career model means a lot of things, one element of which is the 50 percent salary increase, of which 30 percent will be due as of 1 July 2015. This is covered in the budget, with a total of HUF 44 billion, of which more than HUF 11 billion falls to the defence. And speaking of the budget, we promised to raise the defence budget from 2016, and we will raise it significantly from 2015. We already have HUF 9 billion in our budget, and we will receive the 11 billion that we have just mentioned in the middle of the year as a supplementary forecast, a total amount, my honourable fellow Member, of more than HUF 20 billion. In addition, we will receive the amount of papal airport development for next year as an additional forecast, and the cost of equipment for the Hungarian component of the fast response unit decided at the NATO summit in Wales will also be paid separately by the budget. There will be a budget increase of over HUF 20 billion compared to 2014 in 2015. And if you look at the fact that two hundred and forty or a few billion forints is now our total expenditure, this is an unprecedented rise. So don't ask me why they didn't move up the budget because we brought it forward. I just counted it out for you. Thank you for considering that the 30 percent increase was a reasonable minimum. That's right, that would have been expected in your time. Mr Gergely Kulcsár also called for an increase in the budget. I think I've given you an answer, too. The development of forces does not appear either in numbers or in means. I would like to tell you that we are spending more than 10 percent of our total budget on development next year. Of these, I have already mentioned the development of the papal military airport, but I could also mention other development amounts. As regards the number of staff, we are determined to gradually eliminate the shortage of about 5,000 persons that is shown in the Hungarian Defence Office compared to the approved stock tables, compared to the military order. The first sign of this is that the 11 billion HUF I mentioned as a cover for wage development will be insured for the Ministry of Defence as a so-called top-up appropriation, which means that both the legislator and the proposing government itself will expect an increase in the number of employees in the defence and, therefore, a supplementary pre-financing will be required for the payment of the targeted salaries. [[16.20]] I must dwell on the question of war widows and war orphans, if this House has patience. I fully agree with the speakers before me, who have made important findings here in several respects. Yes, it is true, as Gábor Staudt put it, that we were classed by unparalleled, immoral communists. Indeed, no other so-called socialist country has made war-careers, war-wives, war- orphans, only in Hungary. It was indeed an extraordinary injustice that was committed against them in 49. When, in 1993, the Minister of Defence of the first democratically elected government, Lajos Für decided to remedy these grievances, on the one hand, by constantly restoring war care to the right holders, and, on the other hand, by providing a lump sum of so-called ex-gratia compensation to former war-careers, I was the lucky one who, as head of the legal department of the Ministry of Defence, was able to draw up a bill so vehemently attacked by you and direct its preparation, and I even took part in the government meeting where this bill was then negotiated in favour of the chairmanship of Péter Boross. I am saying this because certain concepts need to be clarified, honourable Members, and they need to be understood. There is, in principle, a huge difference between the war orphan and the former war orphan, both legally and, if you think about it, morally and in terms of the state's obligation to them. I think that the people you're talking about are the so-called former orphans of war, the old men and women who, at one stage of their lives, suffered very much, as you said, that we grew up from communists, because under very difficult circumstances, they didn't have a bread-seeking father, because he stayed on the front because he lost his life in the service of the country. Many of them must have suffered a lifetime of wounds, but it is very difficult to determine individually who was at a disadvantage. Obviously, it's not about the lack of financial support, because it's about other items? whether as an orphan or as a social worker? They were given care, not starving, because they are here with us today, but they suffered a great deal. They've become medical professors, they've become auxiliary workers, they have many personal fates. That is why the Antall Government decided in 1993 when it submitted the law adopted in 94 that it would grant them so-called ex-gratia benefits, not as compensation on the basis of subjective rights, but as a form of compensation for a lump sum of compensation for equity. That was the 50 thousand forints. There wasn't much money at that time. At the government meeting, speaking of which, at the end of 1993, Peter Boross said that maybe we shouldn't give it to him, because whoever gets it won't get it, and the person who doesn't get it will be angry about why he didn't get it, he'll be envious. There was great wisdom in the words of Péter Boross, because, well, this debate proves that things have not come to a rest since then, even though there are a lot of grievances in the past system, think of the kids who were not admitted to university because they were of civic origin. Did they receive compensation? They didn't, and their lives were hard for political reasons, because of the crimes of the system. These are very difficult moral questions. Then there are the real war orphans, Congressman. You didn't mean them. Today, under the law, an orphan of war was considered an orphan, and he never became a earner, because a man was an orphan until he was a child, when he grew up, and he was an orphan because he hadn't been in a long time since he was 18. Do you understand? According to the Defense Act 93, there was no provision for war orphans for a capable adult. It is a war orphan who, because of, say, his physical, mental eclipse, still needs to be sustained and unable to work, these are some people. Obviously, you're talking about the hundreds of thousands of ex-war orphans that the government has once permanently closed in the process of reparations since then, do I allow you a modest sum? I allow it, figuratively - but yet he gave me a lump sum allowance, which expressed the Hungarian state's regret for what had happened to them. He couldn't make up for their grievances, because that's impossible. If we reopen these compensation titles now, and therefore it is not a financial issue, then those who have not been admitted to the university will come, others will come. Then there will be other compensation items, which may have been satisfied several times and may not be so justified to reopen them. I therefore believe that the government is in a correct position of principle when it says that it is on a needy basis to provide care to those who are injured today in the context of acts of war. I would like to add to Mr Gergely Kulcsár's questions that it is not so funny for state leaders to wear uniforms. You know, I've been to a camp in Afghanistan where a white shirt would've been the only civilian among many soldiers because it's an excellent target. This problem will now be dealt with by law. This is an area of operation, honourable Member, to read the law, not Hungary, for reasons of security. So no one wants to parade, but they don't want to march as a live target if they do. The right-wing representatives of them in a completely normal way? and I respect your opinion - they dispute Hungary's membership of NATO. NATO membership is the cornerstone of Hungary's security, which was declared by the Hungarian people in a referendum with 85 percent majority. If you believe that you can obtain a majority of a different position, as a referendum has decided on entry, you are obviously not excluded from initiating another referendum. However, as far as his comment is concerned, not only does it not serve our national interests, for example, to participate in missions in Afghanistan and other missions, but if we did not do that, there would be more money left for soldiers to make a living. I suggest you don't argue that in the presence of soldiers, don't say, "Wow," but it would be nice if you didn't go on a mission, because I'm afraid your physical integrity would be compromised. Congressman, the fact is that our soldiers are competing for mission assignments, because the income available there is significantly higher than this country's income. I would like to say here that there is a complete error in the speech made by Mr Adam Mirkóczki in this regard. I suggest that you study this, what NATO membership costs us. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: I was talking about millions, but I said billions.]] Yes, here you mentioned 6,000-7,000 billion forints, that's 6-7 billion forints, so a thousand percent of what you said is true, that's what you thought. Now, the amount is not so excessive, but I wanted to return in any way, so that this slip of the tongue would not be recorded in the students, although you repeated this number several times. [[Adam Mirkóczki: I meant 1,000 million.]] It's okay, the point is, we made it clear that you liked to be wrong. I have already said my opinion on the voluntary reserve system to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck. I'm asking you to take this into account. I believe that it was a measure of interest to those involved, and if you knew how many policemen and firefighters had applied to reserve soldiers in order to receive their former pension in the same amount and to serve happily among their former or new comrades as reserve soldiers. [[16.30]] I didn't see people hanging around. If there is such a thing, I would not recommend that it remain between us; I am calm in this regard. I am also calm about what László Kiss said, because we are all in God's hands. I think it's the same as saying that if the pensioner dies, his pension will be passed on to his family. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] Yes, the congressman, you say? Can't hear the viewers - that the lost amount you lost. In 1994 on a permanent compensation basis; not because he walked, but because the state decided to appreciate the former war orphans? They haven't been war orphans in decades? He's offering them a lump sum allowance. Everyone who asked for this got it, there was no way that between 49 and 90 or, say, 49 and 54, 56, 59...? who at the age of what age has reached the age of earning, claim the lost amount. Now, after two decades, it would be weird for the original rightholder, especially for his heirs, to establish such a right. May I thank Congressman Mirkóczki for having named me after Károly Kratochwill? This is not an irrelevant question, either, that we have named the Honvéd High School from the commander of the Szekler Division, which, by the way, was a secondary school with electronics expertise, and we have kept it, because the future is, among other things, the fight of electronics, cyber security, and there are hundreds of young people in this school, and if you have seen them, your heart must have been pleased with you. Mine's happy to see them and meet them, too. We have a lot of great listeners. I decided to take this road and set up at least one of these high schools again when, once, there were, like, 20 of us talking in the room, how many of you? I asked myself - those who graduated from military high school or college, and the majority raised their hands. So, in the training of the future military elite, experience has shown that it can be very useful to have such schools, where young people are adapted from the age of fourteen, socializing in the life of the military and in the patriotic spirit. We think about it, we think about it, we look at it, we run the school for a year or two, we look at the experience. I'm sure we won't open another school like this next year, but I'm not shutting myself away from going down this road. Well, Congressman Mirkóczki is asking that we need a counter-defensive programme. I would like to remind you that in 2012 we also renewed the national military strategy, which is a public document [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So we hung up on you for a long time? Thank you so much? a strategy and a ten-year development plan. I am not opposed to discussing all these issues and continuing to work together on a more consensual basis than we already have. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-134	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/2085. Number 2 is available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the committee designated for the detailed discussion of this proposal is the Committee on Culture. First, I give the floor to Dr. Judit Bertalan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-25-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CXC on national public education. law and then the government and ministerial decrees issued to implement it put the Hungarian public education system on a new basis. A number of new legal institutions have been introduced and measures that in the last three years ensure that the Hungarian school system is able to create a chance for the child who goes to school in any settlement in Hungary. It is intended to replace the new regulatory environment by a system of public education, which has been separated from the chances of success, by a wide range of social groups. Public education has been transformed: including primary schools and compulsory kindergartens, a regulatory environment has developed that provides the child with the possibility of moving forward through the institutional system with public responsibility since childhood. The inclusion in the State's reservation also meant that, as a result of the local government's reservation, schools, by getting to the state's maintainer, would create the chance and legal certainty for the institutions in which children and pupils could move forward with equal opportunities and, at the same time, the responsibility that the State represents for the maintenance of children and schools in this respect. We have introduced the new employment rules for teachers, which means a system of careers with a significant salary increase that has not been experienced for decades. The Government accepted 1603/2014. With its Government Resolution No.1, the two strategies for direct public education, the strategy for public education and the medium-term strategy against unskilled school leaving, setting a framework for further development and further development of national public education and government measures for the coming years. Based on the experience gained in the operation of the new public education system, it is necessary to amend and clarify the provisions of the law on some points in order to strengthen the original practice in line with the 2011 legislative intent. We will also introduce a number of substantive changes with this bill. The primary objective of the bill is to improve and complement the government's legislation that already underpins the new measures introduced in September 2012 and 2013. Our aim is also to simplify the scope of the law in line with its framework nature, and therefore a number of legislative provisions are deregulation by strengthening the nature of the framework law and by bringing certain areas currently regulated by law to a lower level of legislation. It will be incorporated into the law on the basis of our proposal and will then be supported by significant EU resources as part of a medium-term strategy against unskilled school leaving, a measure to prevent early school leaving and its central element, the school signalling and pedagogical support system. The aim of the amendment is to facilitate the fulfilment of the domestic commitment to the EU 2020 target in line with the implementation of the strategy. By setting out the rules for the operation of the signalling and pedagogical support system and the precise definition of the characteristics of the student population affected by early school leaving, we will incorporate the relevant empowering provision in the bill at the level of government decrees. This early retirement measure is linked to the amendment of the legislation on the termination of the school obligation, which would set the school obligation by the end of the academic year rather than the date of the current 16th year. We also considered it appropriate to extend the scope of the tasks that public education institutions can carry out, and to supplement the regulation on multi-purpose institutions, so on the basis of the proposal, to provide medical education, conductive pedagogical care and highly talented children and pupils? As a pedagogical exercise? not only in the educational training facility, but also in the educational institution in the future; this will make it more flexible to organise the task and will bring it closer to the students. [[16.40]] An important point of the bill is the deployment of pedagogical professional services and certain other tasks and powers currently assigned to the Government Office of Education. In order to achieve this task effectively and professionally, should the Education Office be designated as a provider of educational professional services in the field of public education, as the Office is currently organising pedagogical further education and professional activities as the owner of several EU projects? qualification of teachers, preparation for national pedagogical peer review - in which the accumulated professional competence and practical experience can be ensured and applied as a background for this professional service. In addition to this, should professional advisory tasks organised as a national pedagogical professional service be installed at the Education Office and certain public education tasks also justified by government agencies? Teacher qualification process? to be installed at the Education Office. In the case of managers of public education institutions, the rules for determining the number of compulsory hours should be adapted on the basis of practice. According to the rules in force, there is a problem when the weekly number of hours of directors or other managers with a qualification to teach the subject is lower than the weekly number of hours of the teaching subject taught by the Director in that type of school. The proposed new provision also integrates the weekly number of hours of compulsory master's courses in schools, specifying that the number of hours of minimum weekly teaching, named in Annex 5 to the National Public Education Act, may be increased to the extent of the number of subjects specified in the mandatory master's plan for that type of school or, on the basis of it, in the local curriculum of the school. There are a number of issues addressed in this bill that support the promotion of employment and a more precise definition of skills. Thus, changes to the qualification requirements of kindergarten and school psychologists in order to improve employability and to reduce the number of hours required for certain managers, to clarify the conditions for higher management assignments in secondary school or the qualifications rules for those employed in the institution maintained by the church legal person, as well as for those involved in faith and ethics education. Because it is the mandate of the heads of public education institutions in the period following the end of the teaching year? Summer? It would expire, but in many cases, for example due to resignation or other exceptional reasons, it is not always in practice, it is also necessary to derogate from the legal requirements of Kjt by means of special regulation at sectoral level and to bring this regulatory element resulting from the specificities of the public education sector to a legal level. We would like to clarify and clarify some of the rules, such as the time limit for the completion of the Community service or the possibility of the immediate termination or removal from the register of the public education institution. The range of educational and pedagogical proposals on the basis of which we would not be able to repeat more successful years than in the first year. Parents do not take advantage of this option, but in some cases it can be a basis for abuse, as the current regulation may be able to stop the student's progress in the years at the parents' request, but this does not guarantee a higher level of knowledge for the child, while some maintainers gain additional support for it. With the establishment of the National Pedagogical Faculty, it was possible to increase and increase the prestige of the teaching profession, to receive the professional opinion of the profession, and to promote the professional and ethical standards of the teaching profession. The form of the latter is the code of ethics. The principles of the code of ethics drawn up by the National Teachers' Faculty are to be extended by the proposal to include teachers in private institutions, thus helping to make public a clear ethical and ethical value assessment for all educators. In addition to the above substantive amendments, certain provisions that do not require regulation at the statutory level are deregulation by the bill, but they are not lost or excluded from the regulation, but will be defined in lower-level legislation, taking into account the aspects of operation, practice and faster, more efficient organisation of education. May I ask the Honourable Parliament that the bill known to you, the amendment of the Public Education Act, be amended? presented with the intention of operating the system, defining and improving the content framework? support the implementation of the content and chance-creating potential of public education institutions in the future. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-136	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr László Kucsák. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to enumerate the proposal before us around about three issues, first from the point of view of children, students, then from the point of view of teachers, institutional leaders, and finally about the institutions. So with regard to children and students, what does the proposal before us state? One of the most important problems of domestic education is that there is a great deal of dispersal in the performance of students, and despite all efforts, there is still a significant share of non-students, graduates and non-skillers. From the point of view of individual fates, one student is behind and missing too much. The drop-out from school is not a domestic phenomenon, which is indicated by the fact that one of the important objectives of the EU 2020 strategy is to reduce early school leaving. For this reason, it is possible to say that the most important innovation of the bill is the introduction of the concept of a learner at risk of early school leaving, creating an indicative and local pedagogical support system to map and manage dropouts. This will provide a national overview of where the number of students is high, and a way to monitor the catch-up, which will allow targeted support interventions even nationally, if necessary. This is in line with the programme operating with the priority educational area, which Fidesz launched experimentally before 2002 for a French sample, to catch up on areas with the worst educational indicators, which was then stopped by the socialist-liberal government. In view of the fact that the causes of school break-off can often be sought in kindergarten, it is considered that we should extend the assessment of the population at risk of early school leaving and support for their catch-up to preschoolers. This would reduce the likelihood of a later detachment, including any social costs. The bill takes steps in the regulation of children with severe and multiple disabilities. Serious and cumulative children with disabilities, from the moment they are recognised as disabled, are involved in early development and care, and from the fifth year of age they are required to go to kindergarten in so-called development education. The education of the developer is the task of the pedagogical specialist service. Therefore, this bill deletes the mention of it as an independent basic task, as it mentions the pedagogical professional service as a basic task. In a further step, we see the need to adapt the law to the third year of compulsory kindergarten, which will enter into force from September 2015, using uniform terminology for children with severe and multiple disabilities. [[16.50]] The bill concerns kindergarten care and student status and other regulations on children and students. It complements cases of termination of kindergarten placement when the child fulfils the obligation to go to kindergarten separately. It clarifies and strengthens the conditions for private learning, which provides stronger guarantees for the fulfilment of the school's obligation. Having seen that the permitted regulation of the law did not fulfill the expectations of it, did not result in better school performance, it will remove the possibility of a successful academic year being repeated on parental request, except for the first class. It shall specify the time limit for certification of the Community service by eliminating the dysfunction. It also clarifies the rights of children of non-Hungarian citizens. The regulation on the Bridge programme is largely proposed by the bill to be deleted, possibly with a view to deregulation. It should be considered, since the Bridge Programme is a crucial part of the period of compliance with the school obligation, and it is an important element of the steps to prevent early school leaving, that the regulation retains all the rules that apply to the inclusion in the Bridge Programme, to the fulfilment of the requirements of the Bridge Programmes and to moving forward with the programme, to the fundamental aspects of continuing to fulfil the school obligation. From the point of view of teachers and institutional leaders, the proposal simplifies the qualification standards in many cases, which can provide professional care in several areas, thus correcting the conditions for the provision of school psychology and faith teaching activities, eliminating employment as a prerequisite in the case of consultants and public education experts, which also allows the employment of professionals who have significant experience. We consider it important that this should always be done in such a way that professionalism is guaranteed. Several points affect the role of head of the institution. It opens up the possibility of an institution manager's mandate to employees in the context of an hourly relationship, while standardising the deadline for the expiry of the management mandate for the period beyond the teaching period. It re-regulates, makes it more flexible to regulate management hours, thus addressing the problem of the fact that the number of subjects of the managers may vary greatly. There is also a re-regulation of the number of hours of management of institutions with exclusively specific educational needs. In the case of the teachers' faculty, it proposes to delete all provisions which would have a lower level of legislation or a regulation describing the functioning of the faculty, while at the same time requiring public educational institutions to apply the code of ethics established by the faculty. The bill introduces the concept of the educational and conceptual educational institution for the development of education and training, and identifies the operation of the mobile network of teachers and travelers among the basic tasks, thus strengthening their activities. The bill complements the scope of pedagogical professional services and transfers the organisation of pedagogical professional services to the Education Office. Further progress will be made in resolving the free use of professional services in respect of church and private institutions. The individual tasks? medical education, talent management, conductive pedagogy? they are removed from the exclusive responsibilities of pedagogical services, which is a noticeable facilitation in organisational terms, and, for example, it is also considered to be justified from a pedagogical point of view in terms of talent management. With regard to the institutions, it is to be welcomed that the bill narrows down the number of cases that are considered to be institutional reorganisations, which also means administrative facilitation. Is this also related to changing the scope of the multi-purpose institution so that institutions with multiple functions do not always qualify as multi-purpose institutions? Even if it's unnecessary? for multi-purpose purposes, the expansion of functions should not always involve bureaucratic burdens. At the same time, the range of multi-purpose institutions is expanding, creating a kindergarten nursery, which is not the same as the definition of the already existing, uniform kindergarten, nursery. The bill clarifies its regulation if the public authority deletes, amends, complements the concept of serious infringements in this context because of a breach of law. As a deregulation element, the law deletes certain rules concerning the public education contract. We consider it important that the legal guarantees of the predictability of the establishment of a school, the representation of municipal considerations and interests remain at the legal level. The proposal empowers the government to regulate the implementation of the legal provisions on equal treatment and equal opportunities on religious, philosophical and ethnic education in schools. The proposal removes the categorical ban on the transfer of maintenance rights and gives them the opportunity to transfer them. It clarifies, in the context of educational institutions, the concept of the operator, the functions of the operator, and makes corrections to the rules on the exemption of the local government from operation, in this respect it clarifies the cases of the maintenance and transfer of property by CLIK. It regulates the use of educational professional services in municipal real estate. It sets out municipal rights to take over the institution by KLIK. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Please consider what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to talk about the legislation in general, because we believe that this legislation aims to solve problems that would not be in a significant part if the amok run that you call public education reform had not happened in the previous four years. However, it does not settle a number of rules or areas the settlement of which has been waiting for a long time. For example, they still do not address the situation of non-educator civil servants, their low wages or the problems of individual status; the textbook chaos that you created; the experimental textbooks you issued are full of nonsense; the fact that they reduced the obligation to teach by 16 years of age, as is known. For the record, you may indeed be leading students, since there has not been much practice on the planet in the last 15 to 20 years that one country has reduced its obligation to teach. There is such a thing, obviously, that it is not an 18-year-old education obligation, but it is such that it has been reduced from 18 years, and there is no such thing. When you talk about early school leaving and its consequences, you do so, by the way, that it is a significant part of your actions that has increased the statistics of early school leaving, as opposed to EU practice and the data of the other countries of the Union. Let me just say this once again, we can recall the reduction of the obligation to teach, but even the withdrawal of the status of child protection officer from the institutions, and this could still be classified. The amendment of the NAT has also caused disasters, mainly in the context of content regulation, but can we also see in the proposal the establishment of a supervisory system that the rapporteur is trying to press on? recalling the '70s, '80s and '80s - but the system of supervision that you have been trying to establish for a long time has not been set up to this day. Obviously, these anomalies are also to be dealt with in this proposal. Did you and the nationalization come up with such gibberish concepts? I am thinking of the two maintenance-managers - whose conceptual framework this proposal is trying to set in the right direction, even at times, but we also need to see that there is great dissatisfaction in this sector. If the positive voices that the government keeps saying in relation to teachers were true, the teachers would not have protested last week and would not have demanded, for example, not to accept the budget, to act against child poverty, to raise the wages of administrative workers, to have meaningful consultations before the reforms and to review the public education measures that you have taken in the past period. [[17.00]] We're going to go into the details of the law, and I'm going to say it again, it really shows that they're trying to make up the wrong law. Sometimes they do this in the right direction, sometimes they try to react to the crises that you caused. If you look at the individual points, the first thing I would like to mention here is a change in the concept of institutional reorganizations. There is a small extension here, so the amendment resulting from the change of legislation is not considered to be a restructuring of the institution. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I myself believe that the fact of institutional reorganization in itself is a physical thing, even if, by the way, a change of legislation obliges, for example, an educational institution that also maintains high school and secondary school departments that it cannot do it again, then this should also be an institution reorganization. This amendment, with the amendment resulting from the change of legislation, would in this case preclude the application here of a system that should be applied to the other institutions. For example, I am thinking here that this restructuring cannot be carried out during the academic year. In changing the operator's conceptual framework, we see that there is indeed a conceptual reorganization happening here. I myself believe that this is not from the devil, which you are applying as new to the concept of actuator. But you can see here, by the way, that they're continuing to unravel a concept that is one of your basic concepts, which was a relatively long time ago in the working law. Creating the concept of a student at risk of dropping out. I am very pleased that this will be included in the law on national public education, because we really need to respond to the fact that the number of people who leave school without a degree is constantly rising in contrast to European trends. I think that if the government takes any measures aimed at reducing these numbers, or if it creates the concept of a student at risk of dropping out, this is definitely a direction that I could support myself. However, I would much prefer that the government take further steps, let us say, to withdraw the rule on the 16-year obligation to teach and restore the 18-year obligation, or, for example, to put the responsibility for child protection back in public education; then these new concepts, mentioned by the Secretary of State, would indeed have a place and an effect that you would expect. Indeed, in many cases, we can also see that these new conceptual frameworks are being developed, and, for example, we consider it very good that the operation of an early warning system to support students at risk of leaving early school is included as an independent point in pedagogical professional services. I think there's a great deal of room for that, and once again, I'd like to support that. In addition to the fact that I would be much more pleased, I would say once again that further measures by which you have increased the number of school leavers would be withdrawn. The next step to be discussed is the creation of a kindergarten as a multipurpose institution. This is a long-standing concept for virtually everyone who exists in education, and I must say that it is a logical response. At the moment, there is often a shortage of nursery space, and in many settlements there is often a shortage of nursery space. In the event that a multipurpose institution can be created as a kindergarten cradle, it may be able to address both gaps with certain improvements. Whether it's small settlements or not, this could work a lot better. However, it is feared that, both in kindergarten and in crèches, of which there is a shortage in both cases, this definition alone, this option does not solve the lack of two institutional systems. But in any case, we believe that this institutional system is a step forward. With regard to the definition of a single pedagogical methodological institution and its rewording, we also believe that, while there were still debates about the adoption of the bill or of this law, whether such an institution should exist at all, and then, after all, the majority of the government accepted that this institutional system was justified, I must say that this is being further developed now. For example, I completely agree that this is something that needs to be done. It was a good decision at the time that, compared to previous plans, uniform pedagogical methodological institutions had not been abolished, and this concept had already been included in this law. I think it's the right thing to do with these amendments that have been written here. I would not comment on administrative amendments. I think you were right about what you said. These are carvings of the law that were absolutely necessary because of years or months of practice. However, let me make some comments in some cases. It is very right that the bill is about the fact that, if the maintenance accumulates debts over six months, there is obviously room for administrative measures. However, I would like to point out that, to my shame, for the first time in the last few years, institutions have not paid public utility bills, electric bills, gas bills, even though they have been kept by the CLIK. This has also occurred in institutions for which, by the way, when the municipality was their owner, there were no such anomalies before. In many cases, we may find that institutions or maintainers in which the maintainer is the State itself through the KLIK. In this context, it is worth considering the anomalies that could cause KLIK to be unable to pay an electric bill or to pay a telephone number in an institution. There are several such institutions involved. Obviously, it is not because the state does not have this money at its disposal, but rather that it is a form of mismanagement, a form of malfunctioning that characterizes these CLIKs. We find it very right to regulate who can carry out the school's teaching of faith, because this, as you have described here, is in line with the general principle that even the previous Public Education Act had the principle that teachers with education can teach at school. The rule that applies to children carrying out preschool duties abroad is obviously a good response to economic refugees from whom we hope to return with their children. Unfortunately, this is a necessary amendment, which is definitely where it should be. In both cases, you have changed the concept of an expert or expert advisor in relation to the experts and consultants assisting teachers in their activities. I've been pulled out of it by two important or not important, everyone should judge that, but in any case, two passes. One is that a person may be an expert or consultant who, in the case of a specialist consultant, has been employed by a pedagogical professional service institution, it is included in the previous law; in the case of an expert, he is an employee of a public education institution or, in the case of a professional, is retired not more than five years. It is clear now that this is about relaxing these concepts to enable them to finally set up the professional advisory system that you want to build. It is also a recognition that the numbers that you expected from the specialist consultants to set up the state school board have failed to be fulfilled. That's why these rules need to be softened. In general, I also think that it is not necessarily the right direction, of course, to react to an anomaly of the institutional system by softening the rules. If we are talking about these softenings, it is worth noting in the transformation of the institutional system and in the softening of the rules who can even work as an educator in the institutions. That's a relief you've done. If the job cannot be completed by a qualified kindergarten psychologist or school psychologist, then a five-year fixed period of time may also be used by a colleague who does not have such a degree or such a professional degree. [[17.10]] I think that this poor man's case of cooking water does not necessarily consider this regulation to be from the devil. This is also a confession to the fact that the school psychology network has not been built with the right professionals, but I also think that this regulation is better than not helping the institutional system by such psychologists. Similarly, the same is true with regard to filling the pedagogical course with an adequate degree, where you would allow a teacher to work as an intern who, as a result of a lack of language examination, does not have this degree, if you undertake to obtain it within a specified period of time. I think it's just admitting that you wouldn't be young enough for this beautiful career again, but I can say once again that I can say that there may even be an acceptable direction to admit that there is a serious problem here. But I could tell you more about these rules, which refer to the confusion you have created, such as the definition of the operator's task. In practice, it is described that, with the exception of teaching tools, it is responsible for the provision, transfer, reception, storage and replacement of equipment and equipment, as well as materials, goods, services, necessary for the operation of public education institutions. A very strange world is being created here, as it can be described as a school gym, which, according to the regulation, is the replacement of football in the school gym, not the operator's, and the replacement of the light bulb is the operator's. These are obviously very difficult things to do in practice. In addition, I can say that, since the whole system is wrong, we cannot support the proposal, because you form detailed rules that are not basically trying to improve this system in detail. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2014-11-25-140	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-25-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There's a real salad law in front of us. In the first part of my speech, I would like to talk about the subject of early school leaving, compulsory education and segregation, as well as about the measures and amendments contained in the bill in this regard. As a new definition, the student at risk of dropping out will appear. It is very good that they perceive the problem that occurs primarily in vocational training. This is the type of institution where dropout occurs in the highest proportion. One third of the students enrolled are not qualified, and in the case of disadvantaged students, this percentage is 50 percent in vocational training. So it's very good that you realize that there is an urgent and very drastic need for intervention here. However, in a number of respects, we consider this specific implementation proposal to be wrong, because on the one hand it is a rubber rule that when it comes to applying complex system-level pedagogical measures, we believe that much more and more detailed guarantees should be included in the law. In the delegation provisions, the detailed development of these provisions is referred to by the law to the authority of a government decision. We believe that, since it is a very important measure, which, as I have just mentioned, will affect a large number of children, much more guarantees should be created at the statutory level. On the other hand, the fact that in a given academic year, the average learning outcomes are below medium performance or fall by 1.1 compared to the previous year seems rather unviable that they are students who are at risk of dropping out at all. For example, an increase in absences, school absences, and radical growth can also be a factor in qualifying a student as a dropout risk. This may grow in a very high proportion in a few weeks, but the law cannot respond quickly to the possible drop-out of such a student. We can't even support a small change in the school age. In general, I can say that we talk a little too much in politics, in my view, about the age of compulsory education. In itself, the fact that we impose on paper or in the law that 16 or 18 years of schoolwork is required, I believe that it will not lead to much change in the situation of schools. This, on the other hand, can be a signal to society. Lawmakers or government power indicate the age when we think that someone can acquire knowledge to ensure their livelihood. I think, therefore, that it should be 17 years before schooling. Exactly? also reflected in this amendment? at the end of the academic year in which the student reaches the age of 17, as this is the message that in the case of a three-year vocational training, he will be able to obtain a degree that he can later manage and get to work. Up to 16 years of age, right, in the case of three years of vocational training? It is not able to acquire skills that would give it a realistic chance in the labour market, so I find it a bad message that we will set the obligation to teach in 16 years. But I would like to emphasise once again that this has only a signal value, so in the case of the 18-year-old obligation, we know that in many cases it only existed on paper, but in fact, many students who might have been at risk of dropping out did not actually participate in the education system; or if they were involved, otherwise it made it more difficult for their peers and teachers to do so. In some of the articles published on this bill, many are concerned that here the minister will be given the authority to allow segregation and refer to the point that strengthens the guarantees of the Equal Treatment Act. So this proposal is about how they will regulate in more detail at the level of a government decree that anti-regregation measures of the Equal Treatment Act will be broken down in a government decree, so it affects the same direction that is in the law itself. So I'm not worried that the minister or even the government will be authorized to do any segregation here. On the contrary, there will be an increase in the range of detailed rules and safeguards that act against segregation. At the same time, attention should also be drawn to a problem that has started in society, known as spontaneous segregation in public life. So now, unfortunately, it's ringing to kindergarten level that parents are simply taking their children away from their own settlements from the institutions? From kindergarten or school? Because I don't want to have their own children in the atmosphere that some schools have. I think it is unfair to burden families who want their children to be safe, to raise them in school under normal circumstances. Because what happens in a case like this? Obviously, this is also known to my fellow Members, for some reason, perhaps because there are too many children in a given school in a given class who are incompatible or who abuse their classmates, or, where appropriate, teachers, from such a class, parents say that they do not want their children to learn under these conditions, so they can take their children to a neighbouring settlement or to another school in that settlement. This is unfair because we charge the extra costs to parents, families, plus expenses, plus organization, who want to send their children to normal institutions. Thus, the result is that there is an increase in the difference between the schools in question, and I do not believe that the establishment of the KLIK can handle this, nor can these rules on drop-out be dealt with. [[17.20]] And again, it's completely unfair. The creation of a kindergarten is indeed a good direction, and the rules in the amendment of the Social Administration Act also allow more children to go to nursery institutions, but the real breakthrough would be to succeed in settlements under 10,000 people, even by delivering this number of souls, making the creation of crèches compulsory. There are many cities, especially in the agglomeration of large cities, where a lot of young people live, otherwise the city is under 10,000 people, but let's say, between 8 and 10,000 people, there are lots of small children, but there is simply no kindergarten care, because the law is not mandatory. And in many cases, these settlements are also in a good financial situation, so they could afford to set up or maintain a nursery, but since there is no legal obligation, they do not create these institutions despite the need. So it would be a real breakthrough if we could change this 10,000 people, say, to 8 thousand people, or, obviously, in a more detailed review, to see which settlements need this and make it a mandatory task in those settlements. In the case of teachers, we can also read a lot of changes. With regard to the National Teacher's Faculty, do you have a lot of powers that you want at the level of regulation in the spirit of deregulation? As the Secretary of State said? refer to the Pedagogist Faculty. I believe that, like other legislative tasks or other branches of legislation, they would like to regulate too much at regulation level, and that at least the duties and rights of the Faculty of Education should be guaranteed at the statutory level. Indeed, the rules of procedure for such organisation of work or membership registration may be justified by regulation, but fundamental tasks and rights, I think, would be much better guaranteed by law to this institution. As I have also mentioned in detail the conditions for qualifying students at risk of early retirement, it should be guaranteed at the statutory level. We cannot agree with the part of the bill which provides for the facilitation of the rules on consultants and institutional leaders. I believe that, whether in the case of consultants or head of institutions, it is necessary to have an authority, or to have an admissibility criterion towards employees, which, by facilitating these rules, at least to such a degree, will not be possible for an institution manager to keep to himself, and this could lead to conflicts later on. So the fact that you have a clockwork assignment for ten lessons a week is, I think, not enough to be an institution manager. What is required by the law to create a code of ethics by the National Teacher's Faculty is simply completely unnecessary. The Code of Ethics itself could be a serious thing if it could impose substantive sanctions either on teachers by the National Teachers Faculty or KLIK as an employer if they did not agree with or violate that code of conduct. Yesterday, we had a meeting with President Peter Horváth, and he mentioned that the National Teacher Faculty would have virtually no opportunity? because he's not an employer of the teacher? in order to be able to impose any substantive sanctions on teachers who violate these codes of ethics, at the most, to resign from their post in the National Teacher's Faculty or to give a warning, but there will be no consequence of the Code of Ethics in this sense if we cannot impose any sanctions. On the other hand, it is questionable whether it is worth creating this code of ethics in such a low legitimacy organization as the National Educational Faculty. This was also recognised yesterday by the President as having a very low willingness to participate in the National Pedagogist Faculty on the part of teachers, and by the fact that 10 percent of teachers participate in an organization and this will create the code of ethics, this could be a code of very questionable legitimacy. To consult with the National Teacher's Faculty, I presume? Mr President also said yesterday - it took place only today, so the wallet was not agreed before the submission. I think that would have been necessary. The transfer of professional service providers to the Education Office, I would actually like to know why they will be transferred on 31 March. 48/2012. Under the EMMI Regulation, the work plan is to be submitted by 15 February and transferred on 31 March, so it is neither assigned to the academic year nor assigned to the calendar year. It doesn't make sense to me that this is happening at a third time. Finally, I would like to talk about one thing, which, in my view, may even be against the law, and this is the possibility of free management of municipal property and free use. In our view, this undermines the rights of local governments to the extent that it also opposes the Fundamental Law. I understand the ambition and I perceive the problem that you want to answer, and it is important that the operator's tasks and rights are more specifically regulated by the law, but the granting of free trust rights over municipal property, I think, is unnecessary. So, in my view, it would be enough to grant the right of free use in the law, and we will also submit an amendment in this regard; and it is also against the basic law, since the right of free trustee may mean that the property of that municipality can be charged, and this is, in our view, contrary to the Fundamental Law. Overall, I can say about the bill that many minor amendments, which in many cases make the current regulation clearer, will still not be able to cure the fundamental problems that are welcome and supported, but in the education system; and the drop-out, which we can now call one of the biggest problems of education, points in little or no good direction. For this reason, we cannot support the bill in its present form. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-25-143	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The T/2085. Bill No. 1 is obviously a malfunctioning bill? And fortunately, it's already malfunctioning by government actors? He continues to carve education systems. Previously, we have seen a number of such absolutions presented either by the Ministry of Human Resources or by individual representatives. Just think of the master of the previous term, József Michl, and his casual associates, Pál Hoffman, and Péter Hoppál, who has been a cultural secretary of state since then. Their role was to present the amendments proposed by Rózsa Hoffmann in the form of individual representatives' motions, bypassing the government's unnecessary institution of discussions and consultations. Thanks to their hardworking work, the Public Education Act has changed on a semi-annual basis, but somehow it has never been possible to eliminate errors and make them work better. This is no wonder, of course, because it is a basically flawed construction. Over-nationalised, over-centralised public education cannot in the first place function as a flot. In view of the actors, students and teachers involved, one of the largest institutional systems in the country cannot be operated manually from Szalay Street. The autonomy, scope and initiative of the different levels cannot be eliminated. Now we see the consequences of all this, the education system has become too rigid, too cumbersome. It's not for nothing that Klebelsberg Institute Management Center is currently being transformed. Perhaps a little more democratic, perhaps a little more flexible, in managing the maintenance and management system. It can't really get any worse, so we think there's something positive going on. Of course, we can't be sure of that, because newer changes are also made in complete secrecy, excluding the public and the profession. It seems that the heads of the National Pedagogical Faculty are no longer allowed in the Ministry, as they did not know not only about the current educational salad, but also little about the upcoming CLIK transformations, as we heard this at yesterday's Cultural Committee meeting. We don't know what's going on in the study rooms of the Education Secretary of State, but it may be released soon. Obviously, it will be announced a week before Christmas that it will be accepted in three days on the last sitting. We're used to the unpredictable operation of the law factory. But what is it about the newest carouseling of the Public Education Act? In short, they are trying to alleviate the problems of a system with serious operational problems based on a fundamentally flawed concept, rather than putting it on a new footing. [[17 .30]] We also do not understand that if the new comprehensive public education amendment is to be made soon, then why not change the areas at the same time. But we've never really found the logic of what the Education Secretary of State is doing. Let's look at the minor changes first. From the point of view of the complete education system, the fact that even at the end of 2014 the concepts of operator and operation are refined is quite talkative. It seems that the foundation stones of the system have not yet been invented; it is not surprising that there is a continuous malfunction in public education. There are a number of changes in the rules on the performance of pedagogical licensing tasks. We are particularly pleased that this issue has finally been dealt with by the Ministry, and the operation of this area has been characterised by an acute crisis for some time now. We can only hope that, after the specific amendments, a somewhat more favourable situation will emerge here as well. For example, the proposal mentions in the law the operation of the mobile pedagogical or conduktor network, which, although existing and otherwise included in the law, has not been included in the basic tasks. This is indeed a step forward, but the fact that it will bring about a meaningful improvement without involving additional resources is highly questionable. The LMP submits it year after year, and we have made our amendment proposal to build and extend the mobile pedagogical network. We would devote considerable resources to this important purpose. We are curious to see if our motion will finally be accepted this year. If the government is really interested in developing children, extending the therapeutic pedagogical service available to all, then perhaps this year they will support our vision. The proposal also defines the concept of early school leavers, as, as the explanatory statement, it relates to the amendments aimed at helping to fulfil the domestic commitment to the 17 objectives of the EU 2020 strategy, in line with the implementation of the medium-term strategy against early school leaving. It is quite bold to say that the government wants to be associated with the implementation of the medium-term strategy against early school leaving, since most of its social policies are just to increase the risk of early school leaving. More than anything else, this will be increased by reducing the age of compulsory education to 17 years. A person who reduces the age limit of compulsory education by the age of 17, as opposed to the trend in all European countries, as there is an increase everywhere that changes, makes this justification sound very strange. But let us be in good faith, in case they have seen their previous professional error by reducing the obligation to teach, and in time they will change it, and not just in such small matters they will move forward. It also tries to treat acute operational problems symptomatically by mitigating the different employment conditions. In order to alleviate the shortage of professionals, they wish to enforce less stringent standards in the future for more than one job. Among other things, school teachers, educational experts, specialist service workers, school psychologists. Fortunately, with the exception of teachers of faith, it is not a reduction in their compulsory qualifications that should be considered, but a simplification of other conditions of employment. This is obviously just a symptomatic treatment, and it does not solve problems in the long run. But if there is a shortage of professionals, there really is a need to act. In hindsight, it is impossible to undo previous bad steps, and their consequences must be answered quickly. It is also a minor amendment to abolish the right of parents to ask for a repeat of their child on one occasion in a higher grade than in the first grade, even in the event of successful academic achievement. According to the justification, this option was used by very few in the first place. According to the LMP, this is a supplementary act, it would be more important to see changes that address the root causes of the problems. What makes it less years to repeat, what makes the students more successful? We believe that the reasons for this should be, say, in the basic curriculum, either in individual attention, individual development, differentiated education, or even before school, in relation to early development services. Of course, XX. Unfortunately, in our educational system, looking back in the middle of the century, modern pedagogy tools are a system alien element, especially alternative solutions. In the end, we would also consider amending the proposed law on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. The government would regulate in a regulation the issue of precisely what conditions are met without prejudice to the requirement of equal treatment in the form of separate classes or groups. The law now clearly states in which cases there is no breach of the requirement of equal treatment by segregation, which we are talking about here. Segregation means separation on the one hand and separation on the other. In which case is this not a violation? The exceptions set out in the law are clear. For example, when the parent's initiative or voluntary choice is made to form separate classes or groups, or such a case where organisations based on religious or other philosophical beliefs, as well as ethnic education, the purpose or curriculum of which justifies the formation of separate classes or groups. But there is an important exception: this is without prejudice to the requirement of equal treatment only if the participants in such separate education are not affected by any drawbacks, and if the education meets the State-approved, state-sanctioned or State-supported requirements. The conditions are therefore already very strict, and the bill does not justify the need to regulate the government regulation. What exactly does the government want? That's the question that doesn't come out to us. The LMP would like to make the case clear, which is why we are asking the government's representative what is needed, what is being thought here, what is being planned. Why is the current regulation not enough? Why was there no justification for the planned change? Why didn't you consult with the professional organizations? Why do they want to go on a shaky soil, let us add, not first, why do they not work to reduce segregation, which is the result of negative social and economic processes, in Hungarian education? Based on various research studies, segregation increased in Hungarian education from the second half of the 2000s. Yes, it began to grow during socialist-liberal governments. What has happened since then, we do not know, because there are no recent surveys; if there are, these have not been made public. Why, of course, are they not working to curb segregation? In part, it is a rhetorical question, since government social policy which strengthens the extent of poverty and the growth of social inequalities is precisely a bed for the increase in segregation. The school virtually pictures these negative social processes, pictures the problems of society. The inequalities, whether between settlements or between families, or between children, immediately appear in the school bench. Another sad story, of course, is that these differences are traditionally not eliminated by the Hungarian school system, but amplify them. It was in socialism, it was after the change of regime, and it is much more so today, much more so than ever. The Hungarian education system is one of the most unfair educational systems of all, because of the fact that the social and parental background of children among the developed countries determines the future educational results and school progress. This negative relationship is strengthened, among other things, by separation and separation. According to the LMP, the government feeds and increases educational segregation with its complete social policy. It encourages processes which cannot be controlled or stopped by any requirement of equal treatment. Segregation is not only the result of direct separation, but also of spontaneous negative social processes. The LMP is taking decisive action against these processes and we have put forward countless proposals, and we will continue to do so in the future. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-25-144	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I am now giving the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Szabolcs Szabó, who has made a written statement of his intention to speak. You have the floor. [[17.40]]
u2014-11-25-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would go through the hits of the points that we consider to be particularly positive in this bill, and some of the problematic points that have been spotted in this bill in cooperation with our experts. Now, in view of the management of time, I would prefer not to classify the system of public education in general, but to focus specifically on this amendment. We find it particularly positive that pedagogical professional services are transferred from OFI to OH on the basis of the bill. We see that, under the current circumstances, OH has the best professional competences for this. I'm sure he's in much better hands than the OFI or God, say, the KLIK, or he'll just happen to be there. At the very least, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, within OH, it is the colleagues working in funding at the project office who are the best at this area. The question is what will happen if this funding runs out. In any case, I think that we will need to find those resources so that they can stay and continue to work. I would also like to draw the rapporteur's attention to one thing, namely that if these tasks are transferred to OH, this office will, in fact, also provide legal and professional control and service. This could lead to a bit of a weird situation. I'm guessing they're gonna want to dissect him organisationally within OH. It may not necessarily have to be regulated by law, but this will certainly need to be monitored within the Education Office. There was also a problem during the study of the bill that a little too many tasks, such as service, control, advice, data collection would be put into one hand. It is mainly data collection that raises the issue of privacy ethics. We have already commented on this in relation to the previous amendment to the Public Education Act. If not otherwise, the only way to help is to clarify this data management. The other thing that we think is absolutely positive is that the AMIs are being brought back. That's a very good idea. The provision of SNI children will thus have an absolute professional basis. At the very least, I would suggest that it is the case of diabetics or other chronic children, but not SNI children, that they are the ones who remain very unsatisfactioned. I am only bringing this up because, in recent months, there have been several questions in this House as to how the care of diabetics and chronic patients is to be carried out. Perhaps it was my colleague Gergely Farkas or my fellow Member Luke who suggested this. So if we are to bring the AMIs back, this might be something that could be further thought about, and then the treatment of diabetics could be a little more detailed and more detailed. And then we find some of the things that we consider to be wrong to be objectionable in this legislative amendment proposal. On the one hand, we do not really understand the deletion of the additional funding opportunities for eco-schools, especially because public education has a very important role to play in the completion, social acceptance and improvement of the climate strategy, so parents could be more actively involved in this activity through children. We don't really understand this, and we're asking you to think about it. There has been a change in the sections concerning the National Educational Faculty. This is indeed an interesting question, raised by President Dóra Dúró, that, in fact, a small organisation with low support for the whole pedagogical community constitutes a code. If I remember the numbers correctly, the National Pedagogist Faculty was created with 138 thousand teachers, fifteen thousand to five hundred of whom were colleagues who participated in the summer elections, and said at that certain hearing yesterday that several fellow Members here have referred to, President Péter Horváth, that they have about three hundred active members. So, compared to the 138 grand educator society, it seems like a pretty small collective. By the way, did Mr. Peter Horváth tell you that he's happy about that? and I fully accept that it is okay - that it will be decided in a regulation in the future that these tasks, i.e. the scope of the membership of the Faculty of Pedagogism, the structure, functioning and tasks of national and regional organisations, and the rest, I would prefer not to be defined in a regulation, but that they would be fully entrusted to the National Faculty of Teachers, since they were invented as a form of protection of interests instead of trade unions, if I understood the government's ideas correctly. Then let it function completely freely, and you decide how it works, in what territorial and organisational structure. My fellow Member Kiss has already referred to the clarification of the operating and maintenance terms. We, for our part, interpret this as an additional cost to the operator, because they realized that it had not been fully defined in the previous law. It was a classic example, which may have already come up to replace the lightbulb, the maintenance or the actuator. Well, that's what they're gonna do, and they're gonna pin these costs on the operators. For that, they might need extra resources. And in the end, I would like to mention what many of my fellow Members have mentioned here, the rules concerning segregation of religious, religious and ethnic schools. As far as I'm concerned, it's actually a matter of responding to the judgment of the Debrecen Court. In case anyone doesn't know, it's about the final court ruling on the Huszár school in Nyíregyháza, they've been condemned for conducting segregational education. So it's a final decision. It is interesting that the Minister was a witness on the defendant's side in this case. The EMMI issued a communication after the final judgment was issued that they would find the right rules to deal with this situation. I think that's what the EMMI thought then. This is 27. Paragraph 5 (z) shall apply. I tell you honestly, I can't understand this other than that they will try to enforce special rules and special conditions for these schools, which I can't understand any other way than to allow some possibility of segregation, so they would be exempted from these rules. By the way, the plaintiff who won the lawsuit interprets it just as much as we do. I must be honest with you, I am a bit afraid of this amendment, so I would rather ask that, if possible, this be deleted in the context of a detailed debate, and the government withdraws this proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-25-146	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the bill we are discussing has been classified as a national agenda by the Parliament. I give the floor to the Slovenian minority speaker Erika Kissné Köles, who greets the participants in the debate in Slovenian at the beginning of her speech. You have the floor. [[17.50]]
u2014-11-25-147	Thank you for the floor. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik! Cenjeni Državni Zbor! Mr President, Dear House, T/2085 by the Government of Hungary. CXC 2011 on national public education. The National Assembly's Committee of Nationalities in Hungary asked for the declaration of the draft law amending the law as a national agenda, which is due to the fact that some of the members of our committee and the presidents of national minority self-governments have commented that there was no opinion of the bill by national minority authorities and the national minority committee. This has been missed despite the fact that the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Act 118. Paragraph 1 (a) states that the national minority self-government shall deliver an opinion on the draft legislation concerning the nationalities it represents. The 2010 CXXX on legislation. Law 19. Article 5 of the Act states:.If the law expressly gives a public, local or other organisation the right to comment on the draft legislation concerning its legal status or function, the preparatory of the legislation must ensure that the body concerned can exercise that right...The bill on the amendment of the national law on public education, which was issued last week, does not explicitly affect the content and structural elements of national education, but there are parts of it which should also be taken into account in the case of nationalities. In the area of ethnic education, the recent years have brought many positive changes. These are what we want to protect and use to develop and expand. The 1993 minority law already allowed nationalities to set up and maintain budgetary institutions, kindergartens and schools. At the beginning, there were few ethnic communities, perhaps caused by uncertainty in the assessment of the aid to be granted for maintenance. At the same time, there has been an ever-increasing demand for the transformation of national educational work, for serious and in-depth improvements. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 23. § (1) states that, when determining the structure and content of education and training activities, as well as the monitoring of this activity, the legal regulation of public education and higher education, the educational and educational interests corresponding to the cultural autonomy of nationalities must be enforced in accordance with this law. National education and education are key to us. Its objectives and tasks include the development of the nationality awareness, linguistic and cultural identity of ethnic students, a strong urge to apply bilingualism in practice, and a conscious workout of the need and willingness to self-cultivate in the language of nationality. Did Hungary correctly recognise that they are nationalities living in the territory of the country? just as this is true in the case of Hungarians living beyond our borders - slowing down their assimilation, possibly in order to reverse the situation, it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of teaching ethnic languages in a very determined way. In Hungarian legislation, both the law on national public education and the law on the rights of national minorities was renewed after 2010, followed by the revision and renewal of the basic documents defining ethnic education and education governance. In view of the medium-term development plan adopted a decade ago in 2004, the tasks related to nationality education and education can now be effectively worked together by a number of actors. Among these, we find the wallet responsible for public education, public education, its rapporteur for ethnic education, the collective of the State Secretariat responsible for ecclesiastical, ethnic and civil relations, or the staff of the State Secretariat for Public Education, and the Nationality Rapporteurs of the Institute for Education and Development, but I would say the nationality committee, who help our institutions and local governments. These are, of course, complemented by the responsible staff involved in the portfolio implementing budget support to target groups. According to our current public education law, the public education service, the legal and legal background of which, the principles of education in each area of culture, the National Basic School and the framework curriculum to be used for each subject, as well as the financial guarantees necessary for the implementation of education and training, is provided by the Hungarian State. Consequently, the committee of nationalities considered it necessary to review the draft law before us. Nationality education is carried out in settlements where there is a strong ethnic presence, and these are now more small settlements for many ethnic communities. The financial resources of the municipalities of these municipalities were more limited, they were able to spend less money on the maintenance and operation of institutions, and perhaps they could not pay enough attention to the work of content in schools. At the same time, it is clear from the national authorities that nationality education and education are in the most secure hands of these organisations. They are therefore affected by this draft. There are 41 public education institutions in Hungary today in the maintenance of national or municipal minority self-governments. These are kindergartens, elementary schools and multipurpose institutions. Thus, Croatian nationality has four, German has seven, Slovak has seven, Romanian has six, Serbian self-government has three, Slovenian has two, Greek has three, Greek has one and Rusyn also has one; Bulgarian, Polish and Greek nationalities have one additional nationality school. In addition, there are hundreds of ethnic education courses in kindergartens held by local governments or schools by KLIK. The bill submitted is 1. § 4 of the 2011 CXC on national public education. Law No. 4 Paragraph 11 of the Act limits the concept of institution restructuring, by the fact that, in future, it is not a restructuring if the instrument of incorporation has to be amended because of a change of legislation. In our view, in the case of institutions carrying out national minority education tasks, national self-governments are entitled to a right of agreement in the context of institution restructuring, and therefore, because of this narrowing concept, this will be limited or absent at all. The principle of nationality education is that all children receive education and education in accordance with their mother tongue's nationality identity. The committee of nationalities would therefore consider it appropriate to provide educational professional services with a nationality-related dimension through institutions that have been designated for nationalities. The bill is 5. Article 2 does not extend the possibility of using pedagogical professional services to institutions maintained by national minority authorities, as it states:. The educational institution with state-reserved education uses pedagogical professional services from the office. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is obvious that national educational institutions also need pedagogical professional service providers. In view of the specific characteristics of ethnic education, the institutional and professional advisors of the educational professional service provider of nationality would be the most appropriate group of experts. The reason for this is that the specific characteristics of nationality education are certainly more thoroughly understood by national experts, and their sensitivity to problems in this area may be more sophisticated and relevant, and national educational professionals are therefore needed. At the same time, free use of pedagogical professional services? What is described in paragraph 3 of this paragraph? It would be fair to extend to include, in addition to ecclesiastical, private public education institutions, ethnic public education institutions whose maintainer has concluded a public education agreement with the minister responsible for education. In the proposed amendment to the Act, questions were raised by the national minority authorities and the scope of further nominations for our committee, such as Article 24. It requires the application of the Code of Ethics to national and municipal minority institutions, naming the church maintainer, but does not mention the institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments. [[18.00]] Is that what you're talking about? It would be fair to extend to include, in addition to ecclesiastical, private public education institutions, ethnic public education institutions whose maintainer has concluded a public education agreement with the minister responsible for education. In the proposed amendment to the Act, questions were raised by the national minority authorities and the scope of further nominations for our committee, such as Article 24. It requires the application of the Code of Ethics to national and municipal minority institutions, naming the church maintainer, but does not mention the institutions operating in the maintenance of minority self-governments.(18.00) Our Commission sees the application of the Code of Ethics to be extended to our institutions. Students at risk of dropping out are particularly present in Roma nationalities. This point of the bill is also a priority for our committee. Until the end of the school obligation, not only the acquisition of a marketable professional certificate, but even the completion of eight classes of primary school are at risk for them. Currently, the detailed rules for non-discrimination provided for in the Fundamental Law are laid down in the Act of 2003 on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities. CXXV. Act included, not a decree and not a parliamentary decision. T/2085. Bill No.27. Civil rights defenders have raised serious concerns about the deregulation rule envisaged in Article 5 of the Treaty. Some representatives of Roma communities fear the prohibition of discrimination in relation to this amendment. I don't think that's gonna happen. I would like to continue our comments, but until the in-depth debate, our committee found these interesting to present to the House. Thank you for your attention. Hvala za prozornost.
u2014-11-25-148	Thank you very much, Mrs Speaker, for your speech. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-25-149	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, There has been a lot of talk, and I would like to highlight one thing, and this is the lowering of the age limit for compulsory education. We know and are aware that since 2010, unfortunately, there has been an increase in the number of early school leavers, and that you are here to fabricate and amend it, not by the date of birth, but by the end of the academic year, to recognise that there is a strong link between the age limit for leaving school and delivering school obligations. But here we see several times on the faces of our fidesz fellow Members what this will solve if we now raise the obligation to teach again. What we need to clearly see is that lowering or raising the age limit for compulsory education is not some type of socdem ideology, to raise it up to a hundred years, and then according to lifelong learning, but to see that it is not good or bad, but it is a tool. It is a tool in the hands of the current policy and the government to protect children; children who are born into multiple disadvantaged families, whose vocabulary often does not reach their six-year-old middle class peers. They have no incentive system, a father, a mother, a family environment that would take these children. It's true in itself when they say it's worthless, because it's just a tool, but in a complex system that you put together from kindergarten to higher education with centralization, nationalisation and other dead-end bridge programs, it will certainly result in these children getting out of school early. That's the problem. So what I'm asking is that whenever you talk about school obligations, it's not good or bad in itself, it's a way for the state to protect these children, because if the state gives up on them and they're not born in good family circumstances, then these kids end up there.
u2014-11-25-150	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr Márius Révész, Fidesz Group, has applied. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-151	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I wanted to talk about the obligation to teach myself, because I also think that by administrative means, as the statistics show, it cannot be solved, dear Agnes, dear socialist Members, this problem. I don't know if you know the statistics. At the time of István Hiller, a Green Paper was published that contained the following. One third of the children in vocational school, 30 percent of them, by the way, miss out, drop out of vocational education and training. The rate is much worse than underprivileged children, and they have a 50 percent dropout. Ladies and gentlemen, You can say that you should have an age limit of 18 years, but what does it solve? He didn't solve anything at all. There are many countries in Europe, and then half of the EU countries, where the school age is lower than in Hungary, and otherwise the number of non-skilled children is much lower, a fraction of Hungary. This isn't where the chance is, by the way. The truth is, we have taken a lot of steps in this matter. For example, a kindergarten from the age of 3 has an impact on the creation of a chance. In this direction, the whole day of school or full-day employment is affected, and this is also the direction of the maintenance change that you criticized a lot, because in Hungary it was the case that while you talked a lot about the importance of equal opportunities, you used that word, it was actually the case that you tried to maintain those schools in poor settlements, where the most important thing would have been to be a good education, only the local government did not have the opportunity to add the necessary financial resources to education. The step that the state has taken here and is trying to provide basically everyone with the same quality of education is a huge step forward. By the way, this includes the Bridge programs, which you mentioned earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You can be sure I'd be willing to offer you a bet. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that, in a few years, the proportion of children leaving school will decrease very significantly, by the way, thanks to these decisions.
u2014-11-25-152	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was put forward by Mrs Dóra Dúró, the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, As I have said, I consider the debate on the obligation to study to be a false debate, and that is why I think that Ágnes Kunhalmi is wrong when he refers to it as saying that this alone or in combination with other measures, but that would also help to reduce drop-out. As I said, it has a message value, but this message value may not reach the families where it should go most. I think 16-year-olds have a bad message, and that's why I don't support it. [[Agnes Kunhalmi is leaving the Chamber.]] The maintenance change that Márius Révész refers to is indeed based on a good idea. Thus, the fact that the differences in resources between municipalities do not determine what a child's future will be. On the one hand, it should not only eliminate the financial differences between municipalities, but also the differences in families. Of course, this can be dampened by the school system, but this alone will not be able to resolve these differences without the help of the family. Moreover, in this form, as the maintenance change was made, this is not suitable to eliminate or reduce these differences. After all, the richer municipalities now have the opportunity to provide additional opportunities for children who go to schools in their settlements. There is an infrastructure available that is not available for a poorer village, and I could list a number of examples that, by the way, pro-government representatives and mayors boast about how much the municipality adds to the lives of children attending school in that settlement. I am not saying that, of course, we do not have the opportunity to do so, but let us see that the legitimacy argument with which schools have been held up by the state is being decided by their own argument, and that, therefore, this system will not be able to reduce these differences. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-154	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied for a written speech. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-25-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Agnes Kunhalmi, you seem to have stopped by for a two-minute comment and then ran away. Because if the problem that he talked about in two minutes was so important, he would have had to whip his own, who had stopped the programme of the priority educational districts in 2002, which had started on a French sample. So much for the attitude of the socialists. With regard to the law before us, if I may, I would like to deal with a few specific paragraphs, where I wish to make certain comments. One: 3. Paragraph 2 allows educational and educational institutions to be involved in pedagogical professional service tasks. [[18.10]] Do I think this is very right, all the more so, because the Hungarian state has launched it in recent years? Has this started under the previous socialist governments? a TÁMOP programme aimed at developing so-called reference institutions. There have been many institutions involved in this, and there have been a lot of so-called good practices, which are worth exchanging with teachers on an experience basis, and this is worth bringing together in a network system. There's been an experiment. Some reason it's stuck. This would be worth resurrecting, and I believe that there are far more impulses coming into the education system than if we always wanted to do this from the official side, from the top. So I think it's pretty good. Article 5 Paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Act states that the Education Office may involve certain public education institutions maintained by a state institution-supporting centre in the provision of pedagogical professional services, the institution belonging to the KLIK in Hungarian, and the fact that it is also a state-owned state institution is simply out of sight the scope of the training schools of higher education institutions providing pedagogical education. If it stays that way, they'll stay out of it. Let's be honest, if there is a higher education institution that has the right to train teachers with proper accreditation and so on, it's weird to say, then, why shouldn't the school it operates as a practice venue be such a service system, why only the KLIK system. So I think that this should be amended here, and of course I intend to make such an amendment. I would just like to remind you in the form of an analogy that once upon a time, there was a monopoly on Rigó Street, and then, when these arguments came up over and over again, that if a higher education institution was entitled to train language teachers, it would not be entitled to issue a language exam. So something like that would be worth considering here. I think that the problem that István Ikotity referred to, and many people, that certain problems of absence must be dealt with, is very appropriate, but I would just like to note it as addressed to László Kiss? who also seems to have passed away - that the shortage of teachers must be acknowledged in certain places, indeed, it is only good to know that the attractiveness of the teaching track has not now decreased, in the last 1-2-3 years, but that this can be traced back much earlier. If you like, the first big screw-up happened when the single teacher training was possible during the Hungarian Bálint period, and let's simply admit that there is no school where the masses could employ single teachers on account of the hours and others. I just can't do this. Not to mention the fact that after a one-time, big raise in 2002, the pay went down to the bottom of the frog, if you can put it that way, so all its attractions were lost by the teacher's track. That's what we've had to fix in the last few years. And yes, there is a shortage of teachers, and let's admit that the average age of the pedagogical society is between 55 and 60 years old, so we have to change this at a very fast pace, which has started anyway, so the Klebelsberg scholarship system has not been created by accident, very correctly. But therefore, where there is a shortage of specialists in school psychologists, Bible teachers, or even teachers, it is worth making certain facilitations. I think it's particularly good that people who don't have a degree yet because the language exam is missing, but otherwise they fulfil all the conditions that a mathematics, biology, or I don't know what kind of teacher should apply until the end of the internship period. Another question is that then, of course, graduation is not something that can be bypassed, that's right. However, where there is a regulation of a public education expert and consultant, I do not think there is any justification for mitigating it. Practically in both cases, we do so as to make it easy for any of the teachers in the first class to fill it. Imagine the situation where there is a teacher's career, one of the educators in I., let's say he's a consultant or public education expert, and he wants to tell the teacher at the top of the teacher's career where the pass wind actually blows. I don't think it's good, it's not right. It would be worth revoking the criteria for the person to be involved in a public education institution. 'Cause what if he's ever been in his life, but he's been separated from all this for 20 years? According to the present legislation, it would also be suitable as a specialist consultant or a public education expert. I don't think that's right. So here, on the other hand, it's worth tightening up. The completion of the graduation test shall be subject to proof of 50 hours of community service. Sounds nice, but it's good to see the drill again. In some places it works very well, and in some places it is considered something to be done on paper, to be checked out, very different from school, place, settlement. Is it appropriate to approach this issue more carefully because there are examples? I can do that - where it's quite simply a contract with vigilantes. Don't get me wrong, I'm fine with that. It's just that we need to know that we're dealing with minors, that the vigilante is on patrol at night. How's that? Obviously, it's not about the fact that minors actually go out with the vigilantes, it's just about the fact that it can be documented on paper that they've done it. So it's good to approach the problem more carefully here. But I do understand logic, of course, but they just need to be properly differentiated. Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll excuse me, I'd just like to remember one more little thing. Was Erika KISSné Köles suggesting that the code of ethics should be extended? If I understand correctly? institutions maintained by minority self-governments. With all due respect, I would like to suggest that we do not put this into the law, not even because it is the work of a teaching staff that contains teachers belonging to the law, but there is nothing against this code of ethics being taken over by the institutions in question as binding on themselves. I would like to suggest with all due respect that these schools or minority self-governments may recommend this to their institution to be taken as a guide, but if it is mandatory in the law, then there will be a problem of coherence from now on in relation to what is going on with church schools, foundations and so on. So I would just like to point out that there is not some malice working on this, but some kind of legislative logic and coherence. And in relation to the age limit, only one stats, if you'll allow me. In countries such as Denmark, Ireland, France, Sweden, Italy, the age limit is 16 years. So much for the fjords. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-156	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This is now the time-frame for the speeches made by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-25-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Dóra Dúró, has thoroughly analysed the law, and I just want to talk about one small detail. It is a small detail, but in my opinion it is a significant detail, and it also concerns my area of expertise: the child protection signalling system is mentioned in this law. We know very well that even a perfectly suitable system to eliminate the risk of drop-out is the child protection system, or even other more serious problems, and I would even say that it can play a significant role in bringing crime to light, and a well-functioning child protection system is essential for this. The law mentions that the head of the educational institution is responsible for the organisation and care of child and youth protection tasks, the coordination of child protection signalling systems and the tasks related to the public education institution. I understand that it is necessary to find someone responsible for the operation of the child protection warning system, because we can see the problems caused by the failure or under-activity of this system; even if we consider the recent subject of pedophile crimes, child abuse, harassment, in many cases children who have been exposed to it, even by their own parents, went to an educational institution. We know very well that as a social worker who worked in child welfare, I also worked as a family care provider in family care, and I know very well that an abuse has obvious symptoms. [[18.20]] This does not have to be physical abuse, a well-prepared, experienced educator sees the child as having a problem even at school. There is a problem when this experienced educator, although he sees that something is wrong, does not use his obligation and does not signal either the child welfare service or the child protection care system. In many cases, the head of the institution does not meet these children directly; it is the teacher who works there, the head of the classroom, who meets them daily, so from now on it is questionable who is responsible if this signal does not occur. Of course, we could also talk about the fact that the school child protection institution has been abandoned. By the way, I'm saying that it didn't really start, because I didn't think it was a good way for the junior teacher, sorry for the expression, to be added to this task, which in many cases? And I can understand it, because you've been quite overwhelmed by your work? He only completed it on paper, met the necessary and minimal requirements, but he couldn't really enforce his function. We know very well that, on the basis of a government decree, the school social worker's institution should have been in place from 1 September 2013. It is possible to argue whether this should be done through the child welfare service, or whether the school should establish this function within its own competence, this institution. I am in the latter's party precisely because of the fact that a school social worker with daily contact with the teachers and teachers working near the children can see the anomalies there much better, and can better map and bring to light the issues of abused, endangered or even troubled children. Could this be the process of being up to it? If we're talking about a child or a young man, are we talking about a young man between 14 and 16 years old? a life course in a slippery slope, holding a socialisation process in a slippery slope in time, restoring even more serious consequences, or minimising the risk of exodus. Is that why I'm suggesting that you operate the child protection warning system? even in the performance of tasks in educational institutions - we need to find those specifically responsible, and if we find those responsible, we can also eliminate omissions with the appropriate sanctioning system. So that's what I think? Apart from the fact that this is in the same sentence - I propose to the government that we open this up even more and make this system work more effectively. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-158	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-25-159	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think we have a very important bill ahead of us and a lot has been said. I would also like to respond to some things and to express my own thoughts. A few things about schoolwork. I think it is possible to argue how important and dominant it is for the future to deliver a school obligation or correct it right now. I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party has been constantly trying to make sense of the delivery of the obligation to teach that the children who are getting out of the system will be lost, so they will be aided, which is bad because they will enter the career without profession and without knowledge, and it will be very difficult to turn them back. That is why I think that the emergency bell that we often pressed, whether my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi or anyone else is a politician, we did so because we wanted to warn the government that many children would lose the future if it went in this direction. By the way, the European Union has issued in recent weeks a wording for Hungary in which it calls for something to be done to ensure that as few children as possible leave the school bench, as this statistical data has deteriorated considerably in Hungary over the last two years. Therefore, the European Union has expressed its concerns, and I think it is absolutely right. If these students or young people come to life at the age of 16, then? Did I mention it? they can not do much, but perhaps go to the world of black labour without training or in other directions, but not back to education. So that's why we think it's important that we even rearrange the thoughts of the past period so that it can be held up to the age of 18. Now it's a good thing they're supposed to be there until they can split the year, it's an important step, because that's at least six months for a student to win. The other is the question of spontaneous segregation. I think that there are many aspects that can illuminate this, but only one thing is certain: spontaneous segregation is not created and is specifically not created because many parents who are richer want to take their children away, but in most cases because very few people highlight it because of the quality of education... First of all, I would like to point out the problems of the building: it is not the infrastructure of an educational institution in a larger city or in a smaller city, so in many cases they choose to take it to a school facility 10-15 kilometres away, because there is much better equipment for that school. So on the one hand, the infrastructure is what the parent thinks is important, and on the other hand, of course, you can talk about who doesn't want their child to be with. I think that once again we should look at a complex examination of how this issue can be addressed, because, first and foremost, parents should be dealing with a problem that leads to unemployment. In any case, unemployment should not ring out for children, so in Hungarian: the model and pattern should not be lost, because if the model and pattern is lost, it can be very difficult to return the child to school from then on, so many times the children are taken away from here. I think that on this issue, employment, child welfare services, the family support centre, everyone has a job to do to put this issue to rest. The question of the geographical situation has not been raised today. I think that the education system today is not able to address the question of what problems there are, let's say, in Eastern Hungary or in Western Hungary. Are you going to put it in general? Which is okay, by the way? the law itself towards education, but I think the additional programmes that are necessary to enable compensation to be carried out but do not appear very well. I am thinking, in particular, of the fact that there is less and less opportunities, for example, for us to start off catching up outside of class and providing talent to a large extent. We know that there are different school programs, but what you can really see in practice is that it is in decline. Therefore, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we must make progress on this issue, because it cannot be that we do not compensate for it with something, and I think that the best compensation is for catching up, providing talent, more than teaching. Another thing that also includes: in recent years, there has been less and less sighting of mentor teachers' programmes, which is also a very important additional element, and it can balance the problem that we talk about a lot. Is that why you're here for the teachers who asked you out, by the way? and there are very many of them in Hungary today, who teach conscientiously and often without money, without creating the circumstances - we should definitely think of a career where they can be involved in the mentor system in addition to educator work, because they can give a lot to children who can't get a lot into the school system because of parental background. Therefore, I would consider it very important to introduce and embrace the mentoring programmes. The third is: I think that when we talk about the age limit of 16 years, the situation is getting worse in terms of, for example, the lack of synchronised access to adult qualifications and access to the profession. The OKJ professions are mostly in order and they go their own way, but how can it be put together and put together so that as many people choose, let's say, to acquire the profession. [[18.30]] And if it could be linked, then it would have to be linked to the acquisition of the profession and graduation. Because then there could be an alternative for young people to take in this direction. I can't see that from this program. [[For signal:]] I know it's not, but I think it's a missing part of what we're talking about today. I think it is very important to point out that today in Hungary, as the Prime Minister said, young people should be taken towards the profession. I totally agree with that. However, it must be remembered that the opportunity to obtain their diploma in addition to the profession or in parallel with the profession must be given more and more. So from here on out, we'd have to connect it and connect it properly, because you can't see it. I'll give you the example of why I'm saying this. Because I myself managed such an educational institution for a long time, for nearly 17 years, where a mother school was the main mentor of this program, and we carried this program to a Roma minority municipality. And in 11 years, we've given graduations to more than 600 people, 600 in 11 years, both for ruins and not for ruins. The reason I'm saying this out of the blue is because I see the model and the pattern in front of me that it can be done when there's reception skills. By the way, I would like to add that Nagykanizsán, for example, was the head of the Fidesz fraction of the municipality, my partner in this matter, and it worked perfectly, and it still works today. I think that it is not political that this issue should be handled well. The question is whether or not such intentions can be launched. Because if you can get the profession, and you can get your graduation along with it, you can make a great deal of progress on this issue. There is only one sentence about the Code of Ethics: I think it is possible to think about it, and I am sure that it will be accepted, only what is happening today among teachers will definitely set out directions from which it can be very difficult to leave. I think that all recognition is due to teachers who can and want to work on this field today. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-25-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group.
u2014-11-25-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to waste your time at this late hour. I would like to thank Erika Kissné Köles for her contribution, because I believe that, even if I do not necessarily agree with everything she has said, she has enriched this debate with a great deal. I'm sure we're having an argument about judging the code of ethics, but there's nothing else. I think it is very important to point out that either the national authorities are very important actors in the system of public education, or they are very important actors in the institutions that are maintained by non-national authorities, but which carry out ethnic education. I don't suppose there's any debate in this House either. As a representative of Óbuda-Békásmegyer myself, I have very much sympathy for the first Óbuda Elementary School in the district and the Medgyessy Ferenc Primary School, where excellent German ethnic education is taking place, but President Koranis Laokratis, spokesperson, has invited me earlier to study the wonderful institution of the Greek minority self-government, and I have also seen how cool these institutions are in the Hungarian education system, operating a little on the periphery of the Hungarian education system. I know it is not a question of this proposal, and I do not ask the Secretary of State for this to be a misunderstanding, but I would definitely consider it important that, in general, education institutions maintained by national authorities and institutions that are not maintained by them, but which they are carrying out, there should be some kind of co-thinking. I am thinking, for example, that in many cases there are no ethnicities involved in these institutions, because they give such a higher culture than other primary schools in the area, that in many cases these institutions are not also visited by ethnicities. In any case, I think it is very important, and I am pleased with the voice of the speaker, and I think that in general it will raise the quality of the debate in an extraordinary way if there are advocates involved in this. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-25-162	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Márius Révész applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-25-163	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Teleki mentioned the obligation to teach again. Once again, there is quite a debate on this at national level, but in Hungary it is the case that every child who wants to go to school can still go to school after the age of 16. We didn't take any chances from anyone. The only thing that matters is that a 17-year-old who can barely read or write, is in classes 5, 4, 6 or maybe in vocational school for the third time, has no idea of going to school, we do not know whether to admit it, we cannot force him to go to school by administrative means. Or if we force him to do so, unfortunately, his classmates will be forced to pay the price because they can't study with him. That's what I'm talking about. In Hungary, once again, every child who wants to learn can learn, the state provides the conditions for it. I am a member of the Saint Francis Foundation of Déva. Father Böjte helps every child who knocks on the door, parent, helps. There's only one condition that he wants it. And as long as the kid wants it, he can be helped. We can't force these children to do this by administrative means. I told the statistics that a third of the children had been left out, even though they were 18 years old, they missed out. 50 percent of the underprivileged are out. Administrative action doesn't solve anything at all. By the way, our entire education policy is about trying to create a chance, Congressman. That's what reorganizing the school's maintenance rights is all about. We may not have done it perfectly, but we're trying to make up for the incredible difference between the maintenance team. And I can go on to kindergartening from the age of three, a lot of things. Congressman! I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the previous law has increased many times in every school the number of talented and catch-up classes. This is all in the direction that it will not be necessary to make up for the shortcomings that children did not learn in primary school at vocational school. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-25-164	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Judit Bertalan, Dr. Czunyiné, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-11-25-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Some thoughts, I don't want to answer all the points in substance right now. There have been a number of comments, proposals, amendments, either from my fellow Member Pósán or from elsewhere, which is worth considering and in the form of an amending proposal, I think it may be translated. In particular, I am thinking of the improvements made to the proposals that have recognised the objective of the current legislative proposal before this House to optimise practice and operation, make it more efficient, speedy and otherwise organise school life in this House; thus, even with regard to the Education Office, the restructuring decision, which is intended to address these changes in line with the school year and the functioning of the school. I would also like to thank the speaker for her comments and comments. I think that we have started our work and will continue our cooperation in the future, in line with my promise at the meeting of the minority committee, with regard to schools and institutions maintained by national minority authorities. I would not respond to the comments which, in principle, have been positively or in agreement with the professional and content of the law, since I think that this need not be repeated. However, allow a few referrals and some, let's just say, reactions. In my fellow Member, Mr László Kiss, I greatly appreciate all the literary depth knowledge and the amount of epithethon ornans that appear, let us say, permanent episcopian supplies, which, at the beginning of which the communication panels of the MSZP, DK, Joint-PM and its associates were flourishing and lined up in the context of the Public Education Act. [[Lajos Korózs: Oh, how nicely said! Say that again.]] I would also have liked to have listened to my colleague, Mr Korózs, during the debate, if he had commented on the amendment of the Public Education Act. So I've heard everything in the lines of the MSZP about how to do or should have done, and what they're thinking behind. On the other hand, I have not heard any technical or substantive amendments or amendments. [[18.40]] Is that why I think I'm going to have to react? I believe that the social policy objectives of the EMMI adopted in 2014 are precisely intended to address all these differences and regional differences through the school system, in terms of the concepts of child poverty and catch-up policy, the concept of creating a chance, let us say, to support or strengthen the school system. So is the segregation problem? Yes, indeed, we are responding to segregation issues, and the government is committed to implementing their ban rules and detailed rules in school life and everywhere. Are you committed both to the portfolio and to all its State Secretariats to all of these instruments of chance, whether in joint projects or in joint programmes? I am thinking here of the contribution of my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó - on the next step he whispered to me as a task to be presented by his secretary of state that this is the first step that we are regulating in the Public Education Act, and then the portfolio responsible for the sector is the further regulation, which concerns him, who will work it out. So we consider children and schools to be a multi-purpose and protected or protected system, which, I think, is only on the grounds of public education in such a way as to give an opinion on child poverty, when, in my memory, we have been able to give a really good answer to this in the last few years. I mean, if I'm just thinking about free textbooking? I would like to take the liberty of approaching this on the side of child poverty, if you have already talked about this - or we are talking about double the number of children eating free in Hungary today as before, then I think that the school system has responded, managed, and headed towards this course of treatment, which I think is right. And if the school system can add to that, the maintainer can add, and overall, the other sectors can support that, then we are on the right track. So I am sorry, but I think it is an empty balloon and indeed a banging of communication panels when the bill is not really about that, but comes to the House as an optimism, more efficient and a bill of substance, which is designed to help and improve operational mechanisms. So I think that all the suggestions that have come and come to the intentions of improving the content and organizational functioning, which can really serve to strengthen schools and create opportunities in the Hungarian school system, I think it is worth considering and considering. Let me point out a few more things. Indeed, my fellow Member Pósán spoke about the lack of teachers and the lack of specialised teachers. Here, too, the first substantive intervention in the system has taken place after 2012 with the transformation of public education, when, through the Klebelsberg Scholarship Programme, we can conclude contracts with students in order to stay there on the one hand and, on the other hand, to make up for the lack of specialized education in small schools for the future. I will no longer repeat or repeat that I fully agree with my fellow Member, Mr Pósán, both with regard to the school system, education and the financial and management problems related to the human resources of schools today, the answer must indeed be sought during the work of Bálint Magyar during the transformation of the teacher training at that time and the transformation of the system at that time. We see these problems very clearly today, and you have criticised the operation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre a great deal, now that these problems have come to his table after eleven years, and they come to the surface and tell us that the methodology, the kind of education policy methodology that was applied at the time, was inadequate for all the tasks that should be given today to a value-based, knowledge-based education system, a school system offering a reliable and predictable career in Europe. I think that in this respect, too, I can safely say that by transforming the public education system, adopting the Public Education Act and indeed with the amendments that we have now tabled to this House with the intention of clarifying, improving and improving, I think that we are on the way to start building a school system for our children in which we are building a school system? And here I would react in a sentence, although early school leaving has been said so many times today; that is how you use it. If we move a little into the school, we move into the thinking world of Hungarian families, and we are really looking for the need for this concept or the meaning of this concept, then from our point of view as legislator and education management, this should be expressed as unqualified school leaving. I am talking about exactly what my fellow Member Márius Révész talked about. So our goal is to have a degree when he leaves school. Preventing school leaving without a degree is important and a goal. The problems and the cases to be addressed on the subject of this specific public education limit or school age are different. In relation to education management, education policy, we need to talk about how during the 16 years the child will have access to a knowledge, whether he moves on to secondary education or higher education, and during the basic school education he will learn to read and write, because the problem is there, which my fellow Member Márius Révész talked about. Eco-schools do not get out, there is no need for a legal settlement, they have gone so far and can go in the form of a project. I'm just looking at some answers now. I think that, with regard to the system of professional advice and to the task grouping at all to the Education Office, sectoral governance, the profession and the implementation of tasks, the powers and the organisation of them together can be achieved as much as possible in order to help the work of schools and schools, which is why the order, which, by the way, I think, should be very rightly helped by pedagogical work in schools. I wouldn't comment on the fact that there were all kinds of boogeymans here, too, and one of the leaders of the opposition, in terms of the meaning of the school board and the department, I don't know what it meant, and I don't know what it said in the '70s. I think that it might be better to deepen and conduct a little self-examination, and also to look into the history of schools, that for several years, teachers have been abundant in the range of pedagogical programmes, but they have not received any real help from textbooks or methodologies. And let me not talk about the fact that the possibility of a methodology for differentiated training has been taken out of teacher training during precisely socialist education policy management, otherwise precisely harming or specifically harming schools where, say, a little more could have been done during the education of children with SNI or, let's say, a little more in disadvantaged areas or groups of children with learning abilities. So, there are mistakes that you have to deal with, which both the Public Education Act and the proposal before you provide an answer to. We can argue in the method, in the execution, but the principles, I think, are clear to all of us. The aim is to enable a school system with a chance to improve in Hungary, where there is a possibility of moving forward at all stages of the school system, and there is, let's say, a career picture in order to gain a secure profession, either the possibility of further education, or the ability to get a public knowledge degree after a quasi-skilled degree, and thus to move on. Let's just say that the educational system left behind in its ruins in 2010 was not very capable of doing so. So I think that the construction that started with the creation of the Public Education Act and the restructuring of the institutional system, and the foundations that really led the Hungarian school system towards a certain order, towards a predictable educational system, is suitable for building a school that is really a chance-making, knowledge-giving and safe future for our children, and leaving it here, so that they will not have to argue about it anymore. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.50]]
u2014-11-25-166	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following up is the 1993 III on social management and social benefits. Act XXXI of 1997 on the Protection of Children and Child Welfare Administration a general debate on the amendment of the Law on Sport, Act I of 2004 and the bill on the amendment of certain related laws until closure. The submission is T/2089. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Welfare Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, The basic aim of the bill is to further develop the social, child welfare and child protection services system in a direction that can create a fairer, more transparent, more targeted and more effective, professionally effective service system. One of the main objectives of the Government is to alleviate the disadvantages of people with disabilities, to promote their independent living and active participation in social life. Further development of services for disabled persons is an important objective of this proposal. In addition to encouraging social change, it is a very important additional tool to improve the housing and living conditions of people with disabilities. 2011? I think there's a consensus here between us? there has been a revolutionary change when the migration strategy was born, which began with the establishment of the most important principles, and since then there has been an ongoing replacement of institutional space, which represents a complete transformation of the residential care system available to the disabled. The social institutional transformation, providing long-term housing for people with disabilities, aims at fully enforcing the rights of people with disabilities, improving the quality of life and improving and modernising the social services structure. The basis for this transformation is that in the more than 20 years of social law, in excess of its regulatory logic, we have managed to introduce a highly innovative, new service element and form of service, this subsidised housing, which, we believe, creates the right conditions to create a more open and family-friendly lifestyle and at the same time to reduce the culture of institutionalisation. In Hungary, there are now more than 200 seats of supported housing, and in addition to creating new seats, more than 600 seats will be renewed within the framework of the institutional replacement programme, and 600 seats will be replaced in the coming year, starting in the middle of the year. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Hungary's budget for this year, 2014 provides HUF 187.4 million for the operation of supported housing services. This new form of service has worked not only in the provision of disability, but also in the assistance of psychiatric patients, as well as in the assistance of addicts, so we would like to further develop it in the future, and one of the important aims of the bill is to summarize the experience of the past period since its introduction. The replacement of the homes of a large number of caregivers with disabilities, the ongoing migration process and the experience of the one-and-a-half-year period since the introduction of assisted housing justify clarifying and correcting the rules of assisted housing. The bill makes it clear that the maintainer can only reorganize the seats of large-scale nursing homes in one form of assisted housing, and that new institutions and new accommodations can only be built in housing or housing. At the same time, it is appropriate to provide accommodation after replacement for persons who can provide care better suited to their needs and needs in the nursing home form, and therefore the bill provides for the possibility of extending nursing homes to 50 places, and new accommodations thus created do not need to be organised in a supported housing form. Here is an important point that, in parallel, in the law establishing the budget, the deadline and the restructuring obligation for residential homes will be lifted. A lot of residential home operators and maintenance have complained that, after a lot of residential homes have produced very good professional results, they are very good in terms of professional effectiveness, so we recommend that this conversion obligation be highlighted from the law in a subsidised housing form. The next important part is to consider cases where crisis situations occur in the life of a service provider, such as a maintenance disaster or a natural disaster, when it becomes necessary for others to maintain it? Is it obvious, primarily because of the obligation to supply here, that the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Child Protection is considered as a state maintainer, but also by voluntary commitment as a church and civilian maintainer? operate and continue to operate the nursing home service, which would be new in addition to the regulations in force. In such cases, however, it would be unfair to require the maintainer to continue to operate the institution or the accommodaters in a subsidised housing form, since there is no time to do so, to create a new service, to have it authorised, and the other urgent action is necessary in this case, precisely for the benefit of the recipients. In view of this, the bill treats these cases as exceptions. With these measures, I think that we can incorporate into the regulation the experiences that have emerged in the process of being replaced, and by incorporating them, we can significantly improve the living conditions and the quality of the services provided to people with disabilities. Among the general provisions of the Social Act, it is the responsibility of the central bodies of the state and local authorities to ensure the conditions of social care, in addition to the responsibility of individuals for themselves and their families and the responsibility of local communities for their members. Government intentions include more emphasis on self-care and strengthening the individual's responsibility for himself, in line with the Fundamental Law. In terms of long-term sustainability of social services, it is important and necessary that ways of financing the service system develop the possibility of involving resources that make greater use of self-care. Does the bill introduce it to this end? will you bring back into the regulation a former legal institution, the entry consent? the possibility of determining the entry contribution for the maintainer. There are also exceptions to the entry consent, including homes for the homeless, rehabilitation facilities and residential homes for rehabilitation purposes. With the exception of these forms, only long-term boarding benefits may be requested before the claimant is moved in. [[19.00]] The state, municipal, non-state and ecclesiastical maintainers can determine the specific institutional accommodations, in specific amounts. During the preparation of the measure, it was borne in mind that a large part, a large part and a large part of the persons in need of care do not have adequate regular income or wealth to pay their contribution. It is therefore defined as a guarantee rule that the benefit cannot be refused from the claimant who is not able to pay the entry fee in the case of a state maintainer and, in the case of ecclesiastical and non-state reserve institutions, up to 50 per cent of the seats may be granted such a contribution. The maintainer shall use the source of revenue from the entry contribution to maintain and develop the institutions. If the benefit is terminated within three years of entry into the institution, including in the event of death, the maintenance worker shall repay the time-related part of the contribution to the beneficiary or his heir or to the contributor. The next question is the charge. Does the bill, building on practical experience, modify it by inclusion in the funding system? This is also the rules relating to a certain capacity management system and to the payment of fees. In the latter case, the termination of the institutional relationship will be extended by failing to comply with the payment of the paid fee within a specified period and amount, despite the fact that it would otherwise be possible for its income and financial relations. At the same time, the law on the basis of which the budget is based will be dissolved the so-called difference rule, which was unduly incorporated in the previous period and which is causing serious problems in practice. The difference rule, which can be read in the current rules, is that the maximum charge is the difference between cost and state normative and state aid. This rule causes very serious damage to the maintenance and institutions, and thus to the recipients of care. The Child Protection Act. Even one child should not be allowed to be abused or threatened. Should this be confirmed? As Congressman Sebestyén Cutter mentioned? the first line of child protection. The first line of child protection is the child welfare service. Here, only the first step is taken through the child welfare service. To this end, existing parallel services for family support and child welfare services should be eliminated and a more rational, more targeted operation should be developed, as a first step by creating family support and child welfare services within the framework of a service provider. We think that an important step forward is to have information flows between family support, family care and child welfare care providers with the same family, joint case processing and the possibility of sharing scarce resources. The government is committed to protecting children, ensuring children's rights. In line with this, one of the main objectives of the amendment of the Child Protection Act and certain related laws is to make the employment relationship of the foster family more flexible as from 1 January 14, as it will also be a year, and it is important to take stock of the lessons and experiences that have accumulated during the period. We are in constant consultation with the maintenance of foster care networks, and on this basis we propose these proposals to make employment relations more flexible. It is important to solve the problems encountered in practice and to increase the level of supply by providing benefits in kind to children in education and young adults in a student relationship who receive post-care care. A child who is educated under the Child Protection Act and a young adult with student rights who is receiving post-care care is considered to be a cumulative underprivileged adult. It is therefore appropriate that from the next academic year, a child who is educated in a kindergarten, kindergarten or student relationship and attends day-care school education, and a young adult who receives post-care care, who has a student status and has a day-time education, receive free children's meals and receive a textbook free of charge. This is expected to be beneficial for 18 295 children and young adults, so that the number of children participating in a reduced meal can rise from 420 thousand to almost 440 thousand in the coming year. The proposal also enhances the quality of care for the children and young adults concerned by the fact that the resources available for their care are no longer charged to provide the fee and textbook for their meals from the school year 15-16, so that more resources can be used in other areas. At the same time, state aid from the central budget will become more targeted. Training and training of foster parents are an important part of making them more flexible. It is proposed that a person applying for a foster parent's activity can start his/her activities by performing a 60-hour foster parent's course and then choose between fulfilling a variety of qualifications requirements. This option again serves to make it more flexible. In addition to the OKJ qualification, you can participate in a central education programme in addition to the current rules. With this amendment, we are also helping to further expand foster care networks, which have already had very serious results, as the number of foster parents has increased from 5482 to 5699 people since the introduction of the employment relationship on 1 January 2014 and the number of foster homes has increased steadily. Thanks to the government measures taken over the last three years and the territorial work of professionals, almost 2,000 children have been given the opportunity to be raised instead of institutions, instead of children's homes, instead of housing homes. Thus, some 12 500 children currently live in foster families, which is two thirds of the total number of children in education. In the context of the employment law of the foster family, the issue of conflicts of interest has not yet been regulated, and is the objective pursued by amending certain related laws to create the possibility? similar to the pursuit of scientific and educational activities - so that other professions may be exercised in addition to those in the employment relationship of foster parents. We want foster parents who convey value, support the socialization of the child in substance, and we do not want the status of foster parents to push out the possibility of working in foster parents. This makes it necessary to amend certain legal acts together, which is also included in the proposal. Some 2,400 of the foster parents have a relationship to work other than foster parenting, so making work more flexible is again a way of expanding the networks more dynamically than before and providing this service with very excellent professional results today, and let me say that it is a service. The other main reason for the amendment to the Child Protection Act is that it is necessary to provide, at legal level, for rules relating to the care and education of minors, for the management and content of records relating to correctional care in a child protection system. As long as the penalties, the measures and measures are implemented by the 2013 CCXL. law primarily the rules for the implementation of reformatory education as a criminal law measure, until then the law of the GYVt. , the Child Protection Act contains the rules on the provision of juvenile care, the provisions on the protection of children. [[19.10]] This regulation currently affects 180 juveniles who have been arrested in four detention centres and 161 juveniles who have been sentenced to detention. The submission is also made by the Lyvt. , also contains clarifications to assist in the application of the law with regard to the Child Protection Act. In conclusion, with regard to the two legislative proposals, I would like to point out that we are thinking of a type of transformation that will make the social, child welfare and child protection systems more targeted and much more efficient than at present, and will make the use of public funds spent on this matter much more appropriate to professional efficiency and performance. I think that this proposal, which lies before you, harmonises and achieves these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-168	I welcome my fellow Members and now give the floor to Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-25-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Secretary of State has summarised what the Government intends to do as a task for it under the Social, Child Protection and Sports Law, together with a legislative amendment and three amendments. Let me start with the third, because the 2004 Act I, the Sports Act, is an important change, and a little bit of it is also for child protection, because serious injuries to fighting under 14 have caused public uproar? I think it is a legitimate public uproar - and in order to prevent this from happening, it is necessary for the law to tighten up the points in which it tightens up activities which do not have a sports association registration, so that they can be defined as recreational activities, or forbids the possibility of organising sporting events where children under the age of 14 endanger each other's physical integrity or possibly their physical integrity by other objects. I believe that, after the legitimate outrage of society, legislation must also follow the task shown by these negative trends. The other, and I would like to join the Secretary of State: child protection is an important area, and it really needs restructuring, a little refining, fine-tuning, because there are so many parallel things in it that if we take into account the child protection and care of social law, then for children who use social services in a school system...? Madam Secretary of State for Education, who spoke earlier, also stressed that this is a complex system, since we are talking about the same child, who spends only part of the child's life in the family, foster parents, educational institutions or child protection institutions, so I think that these parallel services, either the foster family network or the child's home benefits, should be taken into account, and the legislators should pay attention to the elimination of these parallels. I think that the law basically increases the kind of efficiency that is necessary in order to provide direct assistance in their living environment by coordinating the above mentioned welfare services and family support services together, and in the new type of authorisation procedure already being registered as a maintainer, during the authorisation procedure, since the parallels, the indications that have ceased? Shall I refer you back to the previous speech? not only the lower-school teachers, but also in a complex system, whether doctors, general practitioners or individuals who have information about the child's condition, coordinate it, collect it in a bouquet, and be able to take measures under the background of the law, even coercive measures. The services of the correctional institutions mentioned by the Secretary of State are to be newly regulated by the Child Protection Act, since so far there have been double rules, criminal code rules and child protection regulations. I believe that these are part of the more flexible, but also more attentive, child protection system, which is part of the 21st century. He's trying to focus on the challenges of the century and try to give us answers. It is very important and I think that it is a good direction that we see in the expansion of the foster family network, because more and more children require care either through guardianship or because of other social problems. We can agree that the most professional care lies in foster care, as the child grows up in a family environment. In my experience, too, the process of becoming a foster parent has caused a great deal of frustration after 60 hours of training, which is still mandatory. So here is the type of flexibility that maintains the obligation of training on the one hand, but can enter the foster care system immediately after the course is completed, and based on the experience gained there, you can choose between practical types of exams that are absolutely necessary for your professional education and for your children's education. Returning a little to social law: it is true that in the area of social services, the government's aim is to create a more accessible, targeted service system that can be better adapted to local needs and individual needs, which is also cost-effective. It wants to organise services in such a way that they are strengthened in a focused manner and provided to citizens where problems arise. The elimination of duplication in the service system and the reorganisation of available service capacities in a way that allows for more efficient provision of services are desirable. These objectives are served by this bill, which will continue the longer-term process of transformation, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out, the disincentive of the disability society. It is very important to note that, although there are debates, there will be debates on where we will divide them up to 50 seats, but, as Mr Secretary of State said, let those young people appear in homes and houses and make sure that they are divided into a social atmosphere where, on the one hand, we are making society sensitive. So it is very important that people living in host settlements and settlements want people to move among them, because if they become hostile, they collect signatures against this, I think we will shoot self-goaled, because there will be no inclusive social class where these people go. So we need to take parallel care of where we move them, where we develop the new type of service, the infrastructure background of ejection, but at the same time we need to prepare the disabled and provide services or move them to a part of the settlement where they can access services that can be provided by different sections or other layers of society. In parentheses, at the moment, the support service will provide access to similar services for people living in their own living environment, either in the educational facilities of children or in the employment arena of adult disabled people. So, in any case, this type of integration is supported by this bill. That is about all I wanted to say, and I think that on behalf of the faction, we can ensure that we have our support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-170	I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-25-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Some pro-government representatives, as I heard in the corridor during the afternoon, sang the luxury rocker I Can. t Get No., while here they presented a austerity package to the National Assembly. I do not want to repeat what Mr Secretary of State has said about the laws that this austerity package concerns. [[19.20]] Of course, back on the trip to New Zealand, it is everyone's private concern where they spend their money and how much they spend on it, but it would be appropriate for Parliament and the government to use the resources that taxpayers pay, pay in the form of taxes and contributions. One of the important elements of the amendment to the social law, as Mr Secretary of State said, is the introduction of the possibility of an entry contribution in residential institutions. I think it's the first trap in the middle of tricky scams. This rate can be up to HUF 8 million. Only, as you mentioned, rehabilitation institutions, homeless homes and rehabilitation homes are exceptions. This means, for example, that if an elderly, sick person wants to move into a home, he can only do so by paying the millions of HUF entry fee first. Of course, you can say that there is one today. It is indisputable, but so far it has only been possible for high-level seats, but now almost anyone wants to go to any level of home, then they have to pay an entry fee. Public institutions are likely to do so, as there will not even be a limit on the percentage of seats that can be linked to a maximum of such entry fees. In institutions maintained by church and civil society, only half of the homes will be filled in this way. I don't know why that distinction is important. Here it is worth stopping for a moment and quoting the justification of this whole provision in the bill for a longer time. The long-term sustainability of social services makes it necessary to develop ways of financing the service system to involve resources that make greater self-care possible. By the way, I would like to note that in another section, self-care is now being eliminated. I'd like to refer here to the taking of private pensions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. To this end, the bill introduces the possibility of determining the entry contribution for the maintenance staff. I'm not going to continue the quote. Everyone who read it knows the law. So, again, the point is, why does the government think it is necessary to drain older people with millions of forints? In order to develop the means of financing the service system, the possibility of involving resources that make it more self-care. In addition to the fact that someone who writes such sentences should be sent back to elementary school to at least acquire the basics, but let's move past that now. I think it's cynical, because it's either asking those old people now or the government will be asking for 8 million forints, who live overnight and may never have saved 8 million forints in their lives. I also dwell on this because I recently read a sociological survey, where sociologists asked how many and to what extent they could save for their old age, and did not reach 10 percent, and I stress that it did not reach 10 percent for the entire population who could save up for their old age. I think that this whole measure is a little bit vile, all the more so, because I have expressed this opinion when the Fundamental Law was debated in the country. Look, you can put in the constitution that every child is obligated to take care of an elderly parent, and you can add two paragraphs below that all parents are obliged to take care of their children. It's supposed to sound good. Do you know what that means? If this is in the Fundamental Law, and now the Prime Minister, a few weeks ago, I remember him saying, in connection with the World Elderly Day, that this fundamental law pass will be passed through the whole of the legal system, so I think that the whole country is going to smoke it very, very badly, very badly. Dear Friends! I wanted to see the members of the Elderly Council how they felt about this. Because if they assist without saying a word, then they are all unworthy to sit on the Elderly Council! I'd like to continue, because I see this as a second trap. The Prime Minister said it was a moral order. An earlier draft already included the introduction of an entry contribution, but it was still mentioned that it could amount to a maximum of 10 times the monthly state aid, which is less than the proposal that we are now looking at. When we read this draft, we immediately asked a written question. At the time, we have calculated that the task funding, which makes it possible to amount to several hundred thousand forints per institution, up to a million forints, is the sum total of the 8 million forints limit in the submitted proposal. Just think, this is 70 times the average pension. I said 70 times. Who's got that kind of money? Obviously, they want to pass this burden on to families. In response to our question, the wallet did not conceal the link between this measure and the Prime Minister's idea. I would like to quote that I have received this in response to the fact that the Fundamental Law Article XVI. According to Article 4 (4) of the Act, the adult child is obliged to take care of the parents in need. Is that what the government's trying to do? writes the Minister - to promote this principle to the fullest possible extent. Well, we're all gonna see this now, but I think it's a scoundrel thing. As I said, public institutions can apply for admission fees for all seats, civil, church institutions can only ask for them halfway through the seats. So, in my opinion, the state will skim off people who can pay one way or another. It is true, in principle, that the maintainer cannot refuse the care only because the claimant cannot pay the entry consent, but this is difficult to imagine in practice, since the maintainer, given the level of low state aid, will have an interest in unbuttoning the applicants. Therefore, the interested parties will probably be screened before the application is submitted. And I think it's the third tap. It is not understandable how the government can say that the recording cannot be denied if someone cannot pay, when he writes elsewhere that in such a case he will at most seek another institution for himself. The answer to our written question is in particular this and I would like to quote again. As the entry consent can be requested for some seats, the claimant will consider whether or not he can or wants to pay. If the answer is no, then, as in the current situation, depending on the upload, other seats are available. The practice so far also shows that the elderly person or his family member is considering the terms and conditions of the institution and, if that is not appropriate, is looking for another institution. So since the state institution can make this possible for all the seats, it is possible to deny the admission, because if there is no other seat, then the person can go elsewhere. It is therefore also not true that they have taken into account, as the explanatory memorandum states, that a significant proportion of persons in need of care do not have adequate regular income or wealth to pay the entry consent. I leave it up to this House and the Members to decide whether they are talking nonsense. Either it's not true what's in the law, or what the minister gave you in the answer, or... I don't assume that the Secretary of State wasn't telling the truth, or he wasn't telling the truth. A further change in the social law is the change in the rules on the termination of institutional relations. It is essential that it is extended to the extent that it does not comply with the payment of the remuneration paid, despite the fact that it would otherwise be possible for its income and financial conditions. In the event of a permanent debt, the legal consequences shall be notified in writing after three months, according to which, if you have a continuous fee for a period of six months and this amount exceeds the amount of the two-month personal allowance, your institutional relationship may be terminated. The rule doesn't apply if you have a mortgage on your property. In order to determine whether the debt is due to changes in income conditions, an income check should be carried out. In short, if you can't pay the fee for six months, you'll be on the street. There's no need to complicate this, it's government intent, and I think it's the fourth trap. We also asked questions about this, to which, among other things, they answered that there is no danger that, despite their own will and intention, elderly people would be removed from care. It's as if poverty and deprivation depend only on the individual's own will and purpose. I don't think it's up to that. It didn't occur to the legislators, in this case the government, that before putting the old man on the street, he would go around wondering what the reason for the accumulation of the fee debt was. It may also help with social work-related debt management, but, as we hear, it will not be available next year to those who have received it, because, as we hear, the government will also terminate housing support and debt management services. Now, this is the fifth trap I've been counting. Here's my opinion on boarding homes. And I think this is nothing more than a back-up fundraising facility. [[19.30]] Right now, if someone doesn't have an income because his regular money supply is in progress? disability allowance, disability benefit, and the rest - they will provide the institutional benefit free of charge until then. When you earn income, you can apply for a personal fee, but only from the time when the review took place, not retroactively. Has this been the case so far, but does the amendment now allow it to be established retroactively in the future? when will the income be determined? the fee for the person who received the benefit free of charge. Theoretically, the system is very round, but this retrospective fundraising is not very social. Those who have lived without income for months will be obliged to pay the fee for this period as if they had had income. On this basis, anyone could subsequently be forced to make any repayment. I wouldn't be surprised, of course, but this is the sixth trap. Moreover, it is worth adding that the social service is not an advance loan; although it is also true that it is no longer a fundamental right, since it has already been neutered by the Fundamental Law. We are talking about situations in which it is a miracle that someone can exist temporarily without income, even if he is in a home. The fact that he's paid the fee retroactively, I think it's outrageous. In my opinion, this is inhumane, this is all inhumane, and it violates the principle of the law that the state and the local authorities provide personal care to those who are socially deprived. What I have said is only part of what is in the bill, but it is already apparent from these measures that again people will pay for the damage to the government's bad economic policy. If Hungary were to perform better, there would be money to increase state aid and not to bring the population into poverty. Such measures achieve that the most deprived will not be helped by the State. Thus, the elderly who do not get into the home without millions of savings will be left alone. The use of home assistance in their homes has also been put at risk. Just recently, State Secretary Károly Czibere said that he believes that there are resources in the sector for the social wage increase, and, as you said, it is likely that home assistance will be the source of this saving. Well, I guess this is the seventh trap. With regard to the restructuring of aid plans and these proposals, we can see that the government is cutting down not only on the expenditure side but also on the revenue side. It gives less and takes more, people get paid the price of bad governance, and injustices are legally guaranteed, so they can be legally justified. That is all I wanted to say to you for now, and we will continue in the speeches. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-172	I now give the floor to István Simicskó, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2014-11-25-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is an honor for me to be able to speak here today in this House with a speech before the agenda at the beginning of today's sitting, and I can now comment on the last item on this day's agenda. Moreover, it is as important as the sport issue, and it is perhaps even more important that I can talk about the future of our children through sport. After all, the most important issue is the future of our children. The future of our children, from the point of view that we want our children to play sports. We also use sports as a kind of pedagogical value, as we can raise our children to good through sport. We can develop their self-knowledge, through this we can also raise them to community responsibility, and we can achieve a kind of physical-spiritual harmony through sport in our children, when we can safely say that sport is a magical tool. It's a tool we have to use. The fact is, sport is therefore a good cause. Sports is a noble cause. And when I listened to Mr. Secretary of State as a Christian Democrat politician, it was clear that it was enough in itself to declare a good cause; it was enough in itself to know that sport is a noble cause, while we know that unfortunately there are people who can do a good cause if the situation wishes it to be used for the best purposes. This is the case when we saw children being sent in during the summer by some sports organizers, some parents fighting in cages, sending their underage children to a full-contact fight. Sensing this problem, of course, we had to take action immediately, and we had a consultation in recent months, if you like it, a social consultation, which was about how we met with experts from the Hungarian Olympic Committee, experts from the sports associations, sports associations and even experts from child protection organizations, and we looked at how we could remedy this problem. That's why we're here to see problems and try to deal with them, and everyone who tries to mess up a good cause, if any, should act effectively and hard. This is why we have adopted the criminal code in force from the beginning of the year, and therefore, as a leader in Europe, we have first tightened up the fight against doping, and this is exemplary, since, unfortunately, doping is also present in sport. On the other hand, we Hungarians were the first to act and punish these types of facts in the future. We would like to act, and an important element of the legislative amendment package presented by the Secretary of State in his exposé before us is the amendment of the sport law. I would add that, moreover, even after the negotiations, we have also amended a government decree, precisely to fully reduce this type of risk for minors. The fact is that we have taken two steps: this is the intention to amend the sport law and to amend the government decree. In addition, I would also like to say to this House that a vice-president of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Bence Rétvári Secretary of State, has also filed a criminal complaint against the prosecution in the specific case. We do not yet know the results of this investigation. This is important because we will see if criminal law can then act, the new Btk. may be used against the organisers or even against the educators, guardians or parents. Obviously, those who have read the bill before us clearly see that the sport law is 56. According to paragraph 5 of Section 5, it is clearly stated that in the future the MMA cage fighting activity cannot be organised in any form in Hungary with the participation of people under 14 years of age, as this poses an increased risk of injury. To this end, it intends to move forward, precisely because we see that in today's world there are flexible solutions that can be used to try to organise such types of competitions, for example, standing behind accepted sports associations. That is why we have limited, regulated and want to tighten up the sport law so that this type of phenomenon does not come up within the framework of other sports associations. After all, as has been said by my Fidesz fellow Member? quite rightly - indeed, at the moment, this is not a sport activity; MMA cage fighting can be considered the most recreational activity, since they do not have a sports professional association, either on the international stage or on the domestic scene. We are not interested in such a sports union, because we do not think it is right to put our children or underage children in such a situation. For this is precisely the noble cause that sport represents for all of us; just what sports can otherwise mean for the individual, for the development of our child, for the physical and spiritual development of our children, we see and judge that it is harmful to the development of our children. In both physical and psychological terms, they are subject to increased brutality and can acquire increased aggressiveness in this regard. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] So we see that the amendment of the law provides sufficient guarantees that this type of competition should not be on the agenda in the future, so that such competitions cannot be organised. There are also a number of restrictions in the Sports Act: sports associations of martial arts and contact martial arts sports associations are obliged to lay down in their rules of competition the conditions for organisation of sports events and the requirements for applicable sports and defence equipment, as well as medical presence throughout these competitions. This is very, very important, that if any injury occurs, then a sports doctor can immediately assist a potential injured competitor. [[19.40]] The amendment also states that an inspector delegated by the sports professional association or a sports professional who is present as an observer in such sports competitions, if he finds that the rules have been infringed, may prohibit the participation of the athlete concerned in the particular competition or sports event. At the same time, certain public financial sanctions are also required to amend the sport law, such as the withdrawal of State aid for such recognised sports associations. Obviously, we would like this amendment to allow only and only professional sports associations that ensure proper functioning to receive State aid for sport purposes, the associations which, in fact, do function properly. What we have also examined is whether it is possible to act effectively under the current legislation against people who otherwise organise these competitions for minors, or to persuade these children, minors, to compete in this type of competition. We see that the Criminal Code is sufficiently strict, so there is no reason to continue tightening it up at the moment. Obviously, we will see the outcome of the prosecution's investigation after the complaint, and, as a matter of fact, if this comes as a demand, and the House decides that, of course, this will not be closed. As above, the draft aims to provide a framework for the protection of young athletes, their physical and mental health, and to prohibit their participation in the MMA cage fighting. In view of the above, since the current amendment to the law before this House will also help us to achieve the goals preferred by KDNP, the bill is, of course, fully supported by the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. And if amendments are received, obviously the government will examine their eligibility and, of course, we will review all reasonable proposals in substance and, if necessary, amend the law, because it is about the future of our children, our most important and most precious treasures. So what we want is to support their sport, to have as many children as possible to play sports as possible, to have the opportunity to develop themselves through sports activity, but to do so within the framework of the rules, in recognised sports, and not to put them at increased risk. I thank this House very much for its support for the legislative amendment package before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-174	I now give the floor to Editing Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-25-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have often heard from the secretary of state in his exposé and from the Fidesz lead speaker that parallels must be eliminated, which is similar, it must be treated together and deal with this issue in a complex way. Compared to this, since 2010 I have had the pleasure of working as a Member of Parliament, I have found that if the Social and Child Protection Act is applied, we will only experience absolving and abetting. Have you been swayed for years by the fact that there will be a new service law that combines these two laws? This is the best way to eliminate duplication, by the way - but we do not see this service law even in the corner, although I think it is almost time. Instead of really taking out parts all the time, taking them, adjusting them, absolving them, maybe we should really think about building a new complex system. I'm going to line up on the amendments I'd be arguing about. The first is the possibility of increasing the number of places available to institutions providing homeless care, especially in view of the crisis period, I believe. We should just get to what we have already mentioned in many questions about homeless people, that in solving the homeless issue, in solving the problem of homeless people, it is not primarily the increase in the number of seats that is the solution, because their experience has always been that in a crisis they have had the opportunity to expand the number of places available to provide such care in order to avoid frost death and health damage. However, we know very well that there is a significant part of homeless people, I would say that the street dwellers, who refuse to use specialized or basic care, are not able to use homeless care at all. It's not gonna help if we increase the number of seats. There are settlements where we find that the specified and permitted number of seats cannot be filled, because there are not so many homeless people in the area. So I would say here, too, that instead of increasing the number of seats, we need a complex package of measures. In my previous speeches on this, when it came to such a law, I said quite a lot of things. So increasing the number of seats is not necessarily the way out. I don't understand the meaning of the amendment in the village care services. I thought they'd been trying to eliminate these parallels lately. Therefore, I do not understand why it should be mentioned in the law that, in the villagers' service, if a small regional association carries out this task, such service should not be performed by villagers or caregivers in parallel with the number prescribed by the law. I do not understand why this should be included when the law describes exactly how many people can perform this task. I don't understand why you have to insist on this and why you have to mention it again in the law. Supported housing has been mentioned. I agree that subsidised housing can be a form that can strengthen the capacity of society to accept society on the one hand, and it can also be a form of sensitivity to the introduction of assisted housing. Do I also agree that people with disabilities can either develop or develop in adulthood? I'm sorry to say this, but in a lot of cases, is that a big achievement? the system of subsidised housing is also very helpful for maintaining the level, but this amendment does not show a clearer picture in the design of assisted housing itself. It describes where and when it is necessary to apply, and it is not possible to grant a permit for other types of care, but specifically within the broad spectrum of assisted housing, which direction the government considers to be effective, we cannot find one word about this in this law, so it does not clarify this part of the issue of assisted housing. We've already talked about the entry consent. I cannot agree with this measure either, and the reason I cannot agree with it is because we know very well that, in the financial state of the current aid scheme, we are in a financial situation, and I could even say that institutions providing accommodation in addition to the target support system, it can be said that it will almost mean their survival, whether or not this entry contribution is requested. By the way, I don't understand why there's a difference between state and church maintenance, but I guess we'll get the answer to that. However, in addition to the fact that in many cases the institution will probably be able to maintain it, it will be possible to ask for this contribution fee, and we cannot very well expect that these institutions will be able to use this amount to improve the quality of supply, as this will enable them to create the statutory number of employees and other conditions. I fear that this amount will not remain either for the purpose of improving the quality of care or for the implementation of various projects, innovations and new methods of care. And the other anomaly is, whether we buy elderly care or disability care, there's a caretaker who gets into such a boarding facility, pays for his entry consent, but whether there's a change in his living conditions or in his health? whether or not within the three years in which the refund is proportional? I'm afraid he's going to have to go to another institution. In that case, what happens? If they ask for a contribution fee in that other institution, then it is physically impossible that the beneficiary will be able to pay that contribution for the second time. And if you are, say, two years out of three years, then that means that, in fact, if you take this $8 million amount, you can only manage with HUF 2.5 million, and you should add the additional amount to that. [[19.50]] So somehow I see very big pitfalls in this system, and in a situation like this, a beneficiary could be in a situation where the institution where he is is is no longer fit, but he cannot move on, because he will not be able to pay the second contribution fee, either in his living conditions or in the property situation of the relative. So if the criteria are to be established, on what basis the exemption can be granted, he will actually remain in the same place, on the basis of the same criteria, but he cannot actually move on. They extend the range of people with a public service mission. I think this is a good thing, by the way, only until the people who carry out the public service have the right legal protection, it is nothing but a badge that they can pin on their laptop, but they may also be threatened in the performance of their duties if they have to go to a part of the town; whether we buy a child welfare worker or even buy a child welfare worker, and I could list them. In order for them to become an effective public-service individual, it is necessary to further strengthen both Btk. and other laws so that we can further strengthen their protection by law. In many cases, could the effective measure or even the operation of the signalling system be an obstacle? Do I have to be honest with you? the people who work in it and are involved in it feel threatened, and they know very well that they will have to go back to that part of the settlement, which is part of the segmented settlement next week, of houses without comfort, and if, as a result of their signal, a family feels that I have offended them, they can expect that they will be exposed to physical atrocism in bringing together more families. School social work is in the law. Of course, we can say that with a two-year delay, because according to the law, this institution should have been established by 31 December 2012 and that on 1 September 2013 school social workers should have already been in service. I have already said in the previous debate that I can imagine that the school social worker is not more likely to be provided by the child welfare service, but that I would prefer to create such a status within the educational institution? That's one of the things I'd like to discuss on this subject. And the other is the mistake that the government has made in many laws, and this is the application of the conditional method. I don't see why we need a parole here. We know very well what a social, mental, psychic, or vulnerable situation children today may be. If we take this into account, then I say that it is a luxury to leave the conditional mode in it, and not to say that it can perform this task, but to carry out this task. Of course, if we see next year's budget and we see that the professional programmes of family support and child welfare services are being developed and carried forward, and that the system itself needs less money to manage, it is difficult to imagine that children's welfare and family care services will be able to solve this problem by adding more staff. I do not see what source is put into this system, and if the conditional method is there, and let's say even the source is not given to child welfare services, then it can be said that the government has fulfilled its legal obligation and has established the social worker's institution according to its decree, only that it will not be provided because of a lack of resources and because it is conditional in the law. What I wanted to say is that I am glad to see the results of my work, and I am glad to be able to draw the government's attention to a problem with a written question. This is the injustice and discrimination we have experienced between one person and another in the social sphere. Laughing: in many cases, they earn less in the same job, with the same service time, and with the same degree of education, public employees earn less in the public sector, employees in the public sector and employees in other workplaces. In my written question, I also referred to the fact that, in many cases, it has also occurred that the years worked have not been taken into account by one employer to another when changing jobs. It seems to me that this amendment is now eliminating this problem, giving a sign of equality, and it doesn't matter that it is the performance of the public task itself that determines the criteria for paying the right wages. And one more thing I'd like to talk about, and that's the question of juvie. At some level, I understand the logic of when juvie is going to take place, because if you are already starting a complex program with that young criminal, I would like to go through it, and I do not want to achieve that, since you have reached your age, you may have to go to juvenile detention instead of juvie, and the socialization work you've done at the juvenile detention center may be destroyed in two weeks, and I understand that. If, on the other hand, this amendment and this law are so complex in dealing with the issue, how can it be that the main tasks of the correctional institution have been left out? It lists the need for the correctional institution to provide for education, care, care, hygiene and the rest, but not the most important: the task of resocialization, the prevention of repeated repetition, which is actually included in the name of the correctional institution; the correctional, such a training task is not named among the tasks of the correctional institution. It is possible that this may have been an accident; otherwise, we are trying to correct this mistake by means of an amendment, which I hope is forgetfulness; or it is a complex law, so it might have been an accident. I would ask you to take this into account and to help that if we are to write down the task, powers and purpose of a correctional institution, then this is the most important reason why a correctional institution is actually established, it should be included in it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-176	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-25-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We would like to draw attention to four things, and I would like to point out four things in my speech. First and foremost, it doesn't concern what's inside it, but what's missing from this salad law. We have heard from Secretary of State Károly Czibere many nice things about what forward-looking changes are expected in the social, child welfare and child protection system, but from this? To put it mildly? not much has been included in this amending package. In other legislative proposals, the government is directly opposed to these goals, so let us just think about the budget that is kicking social solidarity and bled out the institutional system and the related laws. The new Secretary of State for Social Affairs, whom we had high hopes for, said recently, and I quote: "The Government wants to strengthen the Child Protection Service, believes that it is necessary to strengthen the signalling system and improve cooperation between individual services. It cannot be possible to operate the signalling system and it will therefore have legal consequences if the members of the signalling system do not signal or have no consequences. What's the matter with you? Quote completed. Did he also say that it is important to cooperate between sectors, to be complex, to be professionals of different sectors at local level? such as the protective woman, the pediatrician, the child care professional, and the social worker? I want you to cooperate. Now the Secretary of State would have had the opportunity to change words to action, and the government would indeed strengthen the institutional system so that it could really enforce children's rights and prevent children from being at risk. Compared to this, is the bill just for professionals? As a public defender, he says that he will not take any steps in the desirable direction, nor will there be any greater resources in the budget for the child protection signalling system next year, i.e. the words have not been followed. The need for urgent action is reflected in the practice. Children's welfare and child protection systems are bleeding from a thousand wounds today. [[20.00]] There are so many children for those who are terribly burdened, they don't have time to paper the cases, let alone deal with the children. The smaller the settlement we go to, the more the signal system is dying. Usually, there's no specialist, so to speak, everything's gone, there's no tools. Employees' salaries have been stable since 2008, at around HUF 70,000 net, and their real value has decreased significantly since then. These are all reasons why the child protection warning system cannot fulfil its function today. In the case of the Szentmiklós case, the Ombudsman also stated that the rights of protection for children cannot be fully respected because of the basic child welfare care and the physical and personal conditions of the child protection care system, as well as the malfunctions of training and further training. This is the state's obligation to protect fundamental rights. The Ombudsman then turned to the Minister of Human Resources to create the necessary conditions. The Ministry did not take any action on the matter other than a methodological guide designed for professionals to help identify child abuse. The LMP has repeatedly said here in Parliament what steps it would consider necessary. The most important thing is to make the system fit for the task, i.e. to have the personal and material conditions without which it is impossible to act effectively to protect children. In addition to improving existing infrastructure, providing work equipment, financial recognition for professionals, it is necessary to train and train staff in the signalling system and public authorities in order to identify children's vulnerability. The cooperation of signalling members and the consequences of non-cooperation can be promoted, promoted and promoted at legislative level. There is also a need for professional follow-up, which is virtually unknown in the current system. The second thing that would be affected in my speech is a change in funding rules for residential homes. The fact that resident social institutions may request an entry contribution in the future is justified by the long-term sustainability of social services. What we have seen so far is that where the government talks about strengthening self-care, long-term sustainability, its action has always prepared a phasing out of the task. This is certainly to be expected in social housing institutions. Just as it is almost certain that there will not be enough guarantees for beneficiaries that the law states that care cannot be denied if it cannot pay the entry fee. This protocol can be played out by waiting lists, while not rejecting someone, but with the lack of space, they can delay their recruitment for years. Institutions will be increasingly dependent on such an entry contribution from people in need of assistance, with ever-increasing public resources. If the government opens up the opportunity to earn income in this way, it will not be in their interest to recruit the poor. So this is another antisocial step from the government. They leave more people on the side of the road instead of strengthening the state's social responsibilities. And the third subject I'd like to comment on is the situation of daycare and family daycare. In the bill, several amendments will deal with the compulsory kindergarten, which will be in force from September next year, from the age of three. Now once again, it would have been an opportunity for the government to finance the family day care centers of self-esteem, giving them the norm for the family day care centers created from municipal and tendering sources. In order to meet the mandatory kindergarten from the age of three at the family day care center, reducing the lack of space, the LMP has reached. Thanks to our legislative amendment, family daycare can also participate in mandatory tasks, but in many cases they do not receive a source. This also has a negative impact on family daycare workers who take in daycare. Children under the age of three have even more room shortage in care. We will therefore also submit an amendment to remedy this situation. And finally, the fourth thing we would like to say is that Mr Simicskó, Minister of State, has already left, and yet I would like to say that finally the amendment to the cage fight is so much that we welcome the proposal. But we find it regrettable that he had to wait so long. It is often written in many ways in newspapers, but it is known that the first accident related to this occurred at the end of May, not even in June, as is often mentioned. It was in Csepel in May when several people were injured life-threateningly during a cage fight involving minors. We took immediate action and tabled an amendment to allow Parliament to adopt it during the summer session. The government voted against our proposal earlier by amending the Child Protection Act rather than the Sports Act. Compared to this, it took another two months for the government to submit its own proposal, which, surprisingly, includes an amendment to the Sports Act. Well, that can't be called a quick response. We believe that such political vanity should not slow down the change and modernisation of regulations. However, to be consistent in this, we certainly welcome the success of this task, otherwise it is not an easy task, namely to reduce cage fighting. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-25-178	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Our fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has spoken, I give you the floor.
u2014-11-25-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would really like to ask Mr. Secretary of State one question on the way here, just so that we can continue our discussion in the spirit of this. I wouldn't talk about how the system is being patched up, while funds are being pulled out of the social sphere within the framework of social law, and how this is coming back in the 2015 budget. I'll talk about a longer-breath speech. I'd like to raise one subject. Secretary of State, if we look at the kind of grouping of experts that divides the classification of villages into several parts, on the basis of small villages, small villages, on the basis of various types of discrimination, then the conclusion is that around 4 million people live in the villages in Hungary. However, the total number of people living in villages is actually 7-8 percent of the total population. I use these two numbers because, when I read within the framework of the draft law that between 70 and 400 people, the construction and strengthening of the village care system is entirely irrelevant, it is clear to me that when in Hungary more than half of the 3.178 settlements in relation to settlements belong to the category of villages, and, let us say, not to the order of 4 thousand people, but only to the size of a thousand, do you not think that there is asyncronity in this respect. Don't you think we should build a different system of village caregivers and caregivers? I asked this question because I would like to deal with it later. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-180	We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2014-11-25-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When the employment relationship with the foster family was introduced as a special employment relationship, the legislator failed to resolve conflicts of interest rules, thus the creation of a foster parent employment relationship is currently prohibited for a number of legal relationships. It is a pity that almost a year has passed without such regulation. Despite the long period of preparation, there is still a job, because most of the time, the legislator only means that the existing rules of conflict of interest, which can be considered the most obsolete, are passed on to the employment rights of the foster family. Thus, there is no minimum of legal consistency, as many hands, as many regulatory solutions. [[20.10]] Only without the need for completeness: many of our laws state that the individual official is not allowed to engage in any activity at all, yet he can still accept remuneration for the type of copyright, educational and scientific activity. Another regulatory logic is that the establishment of a further relationship requires an employer's authorisation and, in mild cases, an employer's notification. In some cases, for example, judges, prosecutors, constitutional judges indicate as a condition of the legal requirement that their further activity should not prevent the performance of their duties in a given public-law position. This proposal amends, for example, the legal provisions on the status of judges, prosecutors and constitutional judges. Dear House, If the social package of laws, spiced up with some sports-law contexts, takes the bold step to amend the strict rules of conflict of interest that appear in a large part of public law law, it could use at least the same terminology in conceptual terms and standardize the texts contained in the various laws in order to ensure that there is no regulatory gap in conflicts of interest problems. The draft is 82. For example, in addition to performing his duties, the judge may carry out professional, educational, coaching, competition judge, referee, artistic, copyright-protected, literary, editorial and technical creative work as a job and may have a future employment relationship as a foster parent. Article 83 Section 7 - Sport activities? in parentheses, the term coach, contestant, referee? are recognised as teaching activities. In the light of all these and the other errors set out in the proposal, it should be recognised that the gaps in the previous regulation are now a public-law problem and should lead to uniform rules of conflict of interest in the legal system, based on the regulatory technique of a new legislation, such as the Parliamentary Act, in conjunction with provisions on employment law in foster parents. In the absence of this, the grotesque situation has been that the judicial staff member may engage in sports activities, the judge and the prosecutor may also be a coach, a competition judge and a referee, and the chief executive of the public service media's service and senior employee may also conduct literary activities, and the prosecutor and the judge also have in common the possibility of carrying out technical creative work. In others, however, these are not mentioned. In addition, it should be noted that voluntary activity in the public interest is also included in the exceptions for a number of officials. For example, government officials, district clerks, experts from the Hungarian Competition Authority, managers, up to and including the President and others. However, it does not appear in the case of others, i.e. it is prohibited in their case and thus incompatible with this activity. If the legislator took his own proposal seriously, it would not create confusion among individual officials. According to the proposal, the Prime Minister himself could establish employment relations with foster parents, as with ministers, undersecretaries of state, and almost everyone else from judges, prosecutors, notaries, lawyers, MPs, municipal representatives, from government officials to those in professional service. In the case of the tax administration leaders mentioned so much today, the regulation creates a complete mess because the 2010 CXXII on the National Tax and Customs Office. Law 33/C. § 2 of the Act does not allow for the establishment of a foster parent employment relationship in the case of a government official holding a managerial position or in the case of a financial officer, as the legal predecessor does not supplement the reference of Article 33/C. Paragraph 2a. Now think about it, Ildikó Vida can't be a foster parent, but unfortunately, he can be a NAV president. As the Fundamental Law is not amended with regard to the President of the Republic, Article 12 (2) of the Fundamental Law provides that the post of head of state is incompatible with any other state, social, economic and political office or mandate, and that the President of the Republic may not engage in any other occupation of earning employment and may not accept remuneration for his other activities, except for activities subject to copyright protection. Dear Parliament, Overall, there is a sad conclusion: what the legislator intends to do would have been written in an hour by an expert in legal information technology. The legislative solution chosen by the government is both substantively and formally wrong, and increases the number of clumsy, uneven and existing legal gaps, and everything can be called, but not uniform regulation. I would like to address it in my next speech on the other issues. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-25-182	I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a normal time frame for the following comment.
u2014-11-25-183	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary. I was just asking because before I spoke, I was hoping that you would answer, because you could have answered the question, and then we could have explained this question a little bit, and you wouldn't have given me any answers in the summary that you might not be able to respond to. It would be better to have a discussion between Parliament's walls on the preparation of laws, when the draft laws are being negotiated, that everything that is given or exists as a problematic interface could be talked about, and not only revelations could be said, and then at the end, when there is no revelation, you will tell us what you think is right. Then I'm not even sure it's right, of course. So neither does the Secretary of State give the opportunity to debate within the walls of Parliament during the trial of today's draft law, which I do not think is right. The reason I asked was that when we discuss this law, the linking of the villagers' and the villagers' systems to the number of inhabitants in the village practically brings with it that, according to my interpretation and calculations, this leads to a continuous eroding. Technically, in my memory? If that's not the case, then tell me, Mr. Secretary, and then we'll talk about it? in a period of 5-6 years ago, there were several villages operating village care services, as this bill now carries the possibility of doing so by displaying the operation of a village care system for settlements between 70 and 400 persons and for settlements between 400 and 600 persons. I think that, since services and everything else are obviously more difficult to reach into these smaller communities, it is more difficult for them to settle, so every existing tool that can help to strengthen the situation or the fact of staying in place, the development of it, for us, no matter what political segment we place the story in, should be stepped up and strengthened. That's why I think it's worth pushing up. So not to limit to 600 people on the upper limit, but it would be worth pushing upwards to 1000 people, 1500 people. I can't tell you exactly the number, and I don't know exactly what's right, but do I feel it? and I think I feel good - that we should move at least to the same extent that I mentioned in relation to a series of numbers in the former, which means that more than half of the 3178 settlements in Hungary are affected by the number of settlements under 1000 people, that we should at least leave so far. If I can suggest something for consideration, as an amendment, if necessary, will we submit it? But obviously, if I file it, you'll override it with a language supplement, and then we'll accept that I'm ready for that, I just want to say that it would be appropriate if we could move in this direction. I think there's something we can do to help with that. [[20.20]] I'll mention what's positive about the law, but let me talk a little more about what I don't think is right, or I actually think it's wrong. My colleague, Mr Korózs, has already spoken about the issue of the entry of nursing homes. Here an upper limit, an upper threshold, is set at HUF 8 million. If I count it well, roughly, approximately, it's about 70 times today's average pension. I didn't directly compare it to the minimum pension, but to the average, roughly 70 times that. Think of 70 pensions, what time band, what length of time it takes, about six years. Six years of average pensions may be requested to pay this boarding allowance to someone. I think it's torso, I think it's a scale, a level of resource that is unmanageable, unacceptable, facial toaster, and I don't want to continue and increase the story within the framework of a signal structure. By apologizing, from the Fidesz benches, this is not what it is for my fellow Members, because it is not the order of magnitude, they think I see it differently from here, from this bench. I think that this is very, very big money, a scale that people, especially the ageing age group, retired people, cannot afford. The cynicism that is expressed as a message within the framework of the Fundamental Law is that of course, there is the child, and then he can stand up and expect it, I think, today, in a situation where people who are actually fighting for their very existence are not living as pensioners, and they are living as an active age, not as children, I don't think they can be expected; or, well, they can be expected, I just think that they are face toaster and cheekless. The other part of this story, which was also mentioned, which I do not understand, or, if I do understand, I absolutely condemn, I do not consider it appropriate, which entails the kind of discrimination that, within the framework of the state reserve and, on the other hand, within the framework of the civil and ecclesiastical institutions, in one of them, allows it to make the provision of the service to be paid to 100 per cent, i.e. virtually in terms of total numbers, and on the other hand, only 50 per cent in relation to civil and ecclesiastical institutions. I think my fellow Member has said that I am being skimmed, but I think he was quite right, and I am really being skipped. They enforce a form of behaviour where you want to make a profit in this respect within the framework of the state institutions, and the others will do as you think; if you drown in it, well, God, what does it matter, the point is that within the framework of state-owned institutions, what should go well; of course, the going well is not for the operation of the system, but for the income of resources on your part. So I think that, if not in terms of resources, if not in terms of cancellation of HUF 8 million, but the restriction, self-limitation and reduction of rates should be done, and on the other hand in terms of financing technology, it would be worth reconsidering this story in terms of the difference between 50 and 100 percent. There is a line of thought that I was listening to when the Expozét Secretary of State said that it is the integration of family services and child welfare services within the same framework. There may also be a good part of this, but as I know it and as far as I know it, it carries a wide range of very specific and distinct tasks, whether it is the child welfare service or the work of family support services. In that sense, I think, just out of bite, one moment at a time, throwing it in the water like a pebble, let it splash, all sorts of things? In my opinion and in my knowledge? Without impact studies, without the implementation of experimental models, without much else, or based on very possible experimental models, I think it is very bold and bold to do all this, and I think that there are a lot of negative consequences to this story. Therefore, if I may, I would urge the government to be cautious, because I think that there may not only be a positive outcome, but also, unfortunately, a lot of negative backlashes. With regard to the foster family system, about the things that are formulated in the draft law, there are positive things that must be recognised, although I must add that it would have been good to do, say, a year ago, two years ago, when we brought these proposals from the socialist benches into the walls of Parliament; then they hated them? I can give examples - and now they're doing it. These 500-hour courses, etc., are starting to weed out the torsos, which are pushed down to a minimum of 60-hours, and then things are more correct, but it's good to move forward in terms of freedom, it's good in terms of employment, so there are good elements, so I just want to say, you know, it's kind of like, Mr. Secretary, that every time we do something in time - no matter what the color of politics is - it doesn't matter, but the implementation of things in time is worth a lot more than, say, two years after, and it's not about who makes a proposal for it, but it's about whether it makes sense and whether it has a positive effect. So I'm just sorry that, in many cases, you've had your attention before, and then you didn't do all this, you didn't get away with it. I am not sinking into the things that my fellow Member Simicskó spoke about. The reason I don't get into it is because I agree with him, so I think that it should be included within the normal framework of such a " sport"? Is that a quote? within the framework of events such as this cage fighter story and other things. So it's good that they get fixed up and drift into a normal bed. Even what I would like to say, and I think that as a new element, it would be worth showing here, under this law, this is the issue of the extension of children's meals. I think that there is something to be done in Hungary. When and when the degree of child poverty? Are you aware of that? Does it confirm a rate of 35% to 36 percent? the European Union, as far as the neighbouring countries are concerned, is, to my knowledge, the only one who has created a far worse situation - in terms of our life situation and our life situation, we have faced virtually so many failures over the last few years that it would be worth opening up on this front in terms of the treatment that I have mentioned, as regards the feeding of children. What is in question, and I did not understand, in line with the disabled, that they wanted to expand the range of registered data, there is the availability of relatives and much more. I don't know what new lists they want to make besides the used Cubatov lists that many people know about, whether they want to make Czibere lists or any other list, but I think it would be good to bring data sets and sets of data to life that are in the interests of people, of the people concerned, and nothing else. Between the last thoughts? I might say this again, but I'm not sure - I just want to say, between the last thoughts, that it is worth thinking about in terms of the 2015 budget, Mr. Secretary, that if the social sphere is constantly drawing funds from it? Now, in my memory, it is about HUF 68 billion less in the 2015 budget than it was in 2014 - how and how do you think that it can be combined with a higher level of satisfaction of people's interests at a higher level? [[20.30]] How? How do you think that? I don't necessarily want to go into the details of where, how, starting with the family allowance, but through a lot of other things, of course, the pre-age benefits that don't belong here, I know that, or just to the point. How and how do they take out funds, i.e., as I mentioned here, 36 thousand million forints in the coming year compared to the previous one? I think it would be worth considering these, and perhaps also the thoughts and sentences that, if my memory does not deceive me, you stated here during a perhaps Thursday evening between the walls of the House that care is actually about how much everyone will have for their livelihood? not his normal livelihood, his existence? may be sufficient. I think that's not what people need. What people need is... [[The president, by jogging the bell, warns us that the time frame is over.]] ? Attention, Mr President, and I will finish this sentence, thank you very much - people need to be able to work decently for the first time, and if they do not have the means and opportunity to do so, they should not be given a livelihood at the level of hunger. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-25-184	I now give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Craftor for a two-minute comment.
u2014-11-25-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would say to Nándor Gúr, in his previous speech, that this amendment does not change the number of inhabitants of the settlement from the point of view of the service in Tándor and village care. So far, in the social law currently in force, 400 and 600 are the border numbers. I agree with what you said about the change in the municipal administration structure, whether with the entry of district offices, and thus the termination of certain services in smaller villages, it might justify changing and increasing these numbers, because due to the changes in legislation, even more villages and higher villages have fallen out of office and other administrative possibilities, so this is worth thinking about. I just wanted to correct your mistake. The other is that he talked about the joint operation of family services and child welfare services. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in most places right now, I think they are performing this task under one leadership, within the framework of an institution. In this, I see the government's intention that, where it works differently, it works differently, maybe we should change that. And while we are at it, I did not mention in my speech that, in a few weeks before the submission of the law, the draft was published in certain forums, even on websites, that it might be influenced by the workers in the profession, but I do not see such a big difference between the draft at that time and the bill submitted. So what we can see is that we have this in appearance, that we ask those involved in the profession, what they have to say about this amendment, but I cannot believe that no one has sent a proposal, or if that is the case, then there is a very big problem. I do not think so, but I do not see that these proposals may have been included in the draft. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-25-186	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-25-187	Thank you very much. The main reason why I asked you to speak is because I would like to ease the situation of the Secretary of State, and I have written a few questions to myself here, that if you reflect on the summary, maybe you will address it, or I think, after the adoption of the law, you will send me this opinion at a press conference. I'm just a little connected to the fact that yes, it is worth consulting the profession, provided that there is a willingness to cooperate with the profession. I'm terribly sorry, I felt a little bit like my own child on the National Social Policy Council, and unfortunately, a few years ago, I understand that it was abolished. I felt a little bit like my own child on the regional social policy council, where we could integrate a lot of good professionals back in the day. And I took the open legislation programme very seriously, it is an EU directive, all the more so, because I think that politics can be done against the profession, but it is not very worthwhile, because, sooner or later, politics always pulls the short straw. Believe it or not, I've experienced it. And in my speech last week, I was just saying that the good politician who takes over a government change is in better shape than he took over that profession. Therefore, I would like to say these few questions here. Very simply: what is the purpose of the introduction of the entry consent? Don't you think, Mr. Secretary, that those in need will be excluded from care? My second question is how to properly ensure that the poor financial situation is not a disadvantage in recruitment. My third question is: what penalty will be imposed on the maintainer if he fails to comply with the legal requirements and rejects the admission in case of non-payment of the entry consent? My fourth question would be whether you have an assessment of the proportion and magnitude of the late payment fee problem in residential homes. The following is: is it possible to settle debts by instalments? And finally, what consumer protection opportunities do they provide for regulating the payment of fees in order to keep older people out of the street? I am not sure whether these things must, of course, be corrected in the area of consumer protection or created an opportunity for them, and I have put this in a bit of a quotation mark. These questions, I say, were mentioned to you because it is most likely that in amendments such amendments have been tabled by all parties, I understand. It would be worthwhile to make decisions on this tomorrow, and if you have relevant answers to these questions, and you are indeed guided by improved intentions, then I think that they can be incorporated into the social law. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say.
u2014-11-25-188	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács.
u2014-11-25-189	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, On the one hand, I wanted to respond to the question raised by my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, although he pointed out his question to Mr State Secretary, but in order to allow me to show some social policy experience behind my back, I would like to highlight the slide that you have said in connection with either the payment or the entry contribution between the public sector and the church and the civil sector. Precisely to prevent those who may not only be able to pay contributions from being accepted, it is mandatory that, on the basis of social needs, at least 50% of the support of the church and civilian maintainer. You have said it the other way round, honourable Member, and you have been trying to show that this contribution drives out those with a social disadvantage. My colleague in the Korózs? I'm sorry, I almost called you Secretary of State, but... [[Lajos Korózs: The time will come! ? Defiance.]] We worked together if I can tell you that much intimacy. When he was a secretary of state, I worked in the implementation of the social sphere, and let's just say we got pretty close to each other, as far as normal professional work goes, and maybe I can add that if he's not talking to the politician, then he's equipped with very professional knowledge and experience? If so much praise is allowed from this bench. But once the political waters or sails have to be swollen, I think it will be a little distorted, although that kind of social-liberal emotion has certainly always been there. [[20.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, The village warden's service? Do you know what this is for, what this is about? provides access to services in small settlements that are not present. It is usually solved by a car, but besides the car, there are other social services. The conversion of home assistance, mentioned by my fellow Member Korózs as a kind of trap, is also part of the need to prevent or end the practice of knocking on the maintenance door by a staff member with a social degree, carrying nine retired beneficiaries, and immediately having a job and providing. Something needs to be tightened up or done with BNO code, disease type, care needs or something. This prevents the outflow of approximately HUF 5 billion. Returning to the 70 and 400 members of the village management service: it is possible that the legislator thought that he was using the term "condnok" as he had used before, as Mr Sebestyén Vágó pointed out, that it could be organised in a small settlement, perhaps in a micro-region or even at district level, or even in the Association Act, or now there is no association law, the municipal law authorises it to be established as an association opportunity in such cases. I think that we should not be afraid of the entry consent, because if the 10 percent that my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, wants to work in the public sector and pay for it, then he said something about health care the other day, that there should be ember money. Well, then, not only can private entrepreneurs, private social institutions be paid, but if the public maintainer is able to offer a service and someone who can pay the contribution and is clearly described in the law as considering his financial and financial situation, he must be offered a contribution whether or not he can pay or not, and should be weighed against the concerns that I agree with, how many months, what guarantees, what kind of transition to other institutions, or a one-off payment, if it has happened to the public institution, what if he wants to go to the institution of another maintainer, then what is it? Yes, these details need to be worked out, I agree with that, but I think clients with a higher level of income that are able and willing to pay should be given a quasi-opportunity or legally obliged if they want to be included. Once again, look at it upside down, my honourable fellow Member, because it's backwards. Just the guarantee that socially disadvantaged people can enter the system is described in the law. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-25-190	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-11-25-191	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that the law that we are discussing here today is a very important law. I would like to highlight the nursery system, because, as in kindergarten, I consider it very important that kindergarten care be compulsory from the age of three. However, I have told you in the last few days, my problem is that co-ordering is forgotten, for example, that there will be kindergarten care. That's well-intentioned, by the way, because I can see that 15 percent of parents in the residential district can take their children. I think it's important. But what I see today is that there are no beds, no cradle seats. If this law is passed, we can't keep it, and we can't keep it because we can't implement it without a seat. I think that every time the government makes a law like this, it is important to map whether there is a background to ensure compliance with the law. I'm sure you can't keep that law for exactly what I told you. On the other hand, I would like to add two points to the sports law. I think that what is written here is very important and can, of course, be supported, as my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr said. I'd even go on to see if 14 years is enough in this thing, because I think when I'm 14, you might not be able to make a good decision about whether or not to go into the cage. I think that the age limit of 16 or 18 would be appropriate for me, but, of course, I fully agree with the concept itself, but perhaps we should consider the age limit. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-25-192	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame.
u2014-11-25-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wouldn't want to waste time, just a few more comments on the amendment of the Child Protection Act. In my previous speech, I spoke on a longer legal issue, now some ordinary things, if I may say so. The reform of the foster family system has been started several times in recent years, and last year it was adopted at the last minute, which came into force in January this year. With the direction of transformation, that all children should preferably be given foster care rather than a home, that the foster family network should be strengthened, employment relationships should be settled, only agreeable. When we talk about how children are the most important to us and to the future, it can be said that, of course, the direction is good, only appropriate laws need to be assigned. Now it seems that they admitted, for example, that it was unsustainable to limit the job of earning to foster parents. The other was such an absurd idea, and the failure to do so was also admitted under the current law, the introduction of a 500-hour training system, since they are significantly loosening this rule. Several times this year, even the media reported on the problems raised by making these 500 hours mandatory, not everyone could fit into the training program, basically taking away their weekends for these parents when they were supposed to be dealing with the child, and in many cases obliging parents who had this profession, so to speak. And it has to be added that this cost 5 billion forints. Retirement leave will be granted, which will be adversely affected, since the foster parents who have five or more children are now entitled to at least two working days' leave in each calendar quarter, up to seven working days. A maximum of 7 working days' leave may be granted to foster parents with fewer than five children per calendar quarter, taking into account the number of children in foster care, the need for care and the extent to which the foster parent has been engaged in foster care. They're introducing a foster-parent financial reduction. Receiving and managing benefits for the care of children in a bank account will entail additional costs for the foster parent. This justifies the possibility of covering the cost of the bank account from the specific provisions that may be used for household rents. In a previous draft, it was stated that the rule forbidding a foster child in a dorm home from receiving additional remuneration was taken out completely. It is now only about the child in the student home, so the parent can still not receive a prize for the children in the dorm. Why did this happen? I'm asking the Secretary of State. I think it's really professionally questionable that they want to bring together family services and child welfare services. I hope you were in agreement with the profession, Mr Secretary of State, and that will result. The amendment to family daycare is not really applicable, given that one age group covers the full range of current rules. The whole amendment seems pointless. It is far more likely that they want to separate children who have been given compulsory kindergarten from others. How is that to be understood? There's this mandatory kindergarten. I think that in recent decades, more and more laws and measures have been taken to ensure that disadvantaged or vulnerable children can be placed as soon as possible not only in kindergartens but also in nurserys. I'm always against absolute bans. The mandatory admission of the child to kindergarten at the age of three? Yeah, well, do you guys know that the notary can give me a certificate that I'm a good family, and then the kid doesn't have to go to kindergarten? I don't think it's right. [[20.50]] It has already been mentioned here that, in addition, there will be serious lack of space. Now, the profession says that there are 20 and 30 thousand people in kindergarten who are short of space if they want to introduce this from September. The other thing. I told you in the budget debate the other day that the three of us who know the kindergarten child are still three years away from the fact that we usually miss six months because we are sick all the time. We don't rush to the doctor right away, but we'll try at home if the kid coughs a little, stays home for a day, two days, we don't ask for certificates, but the kid stays home, we treat him, and then he goes to kindergarten. Is the system prepared for this, I asked the Secretary of State last time, but I didn't get an answer, whether the capacity of the pediatric clinics is prepared to say, say, a doctor's office, so that there will be a family replacement withdrawal now, if the child is absent from the nursery, the parent cannot leave the child at home with Grandma or even with the child himself, so will the medical office have the capacity to receive, say, 200 children a day instead of a hundred children, just in order to inform the child of the absence of the child, just so that the family allowance does not fall away. I think that this is quite a tough anti-social measure. According to the provision on school social work, child welfare services can provide school social work to prevent child vulnerability. It's not mandatory. Well, Mr. Secretary, that's a very soft way of putting it. Exactly because of the fact that there are data that more people have already told us that poverty figures are coming out every day... although it has to be said again that KSH has not yet published poverty data. It's long past September, and November is almost over. The Secretary of State could influence the KSH to finally make it public so we can get to know it, although I think that last week's conference of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has made it quite clear why these things happen, why these data are late. This could only be put here with an indication, as the civil society report on child accidents recently stated that the implementation of the national social inclusion strategy has failed to develop and introduce conditions for school social work without justification, although prevention, a positive school climate and timely professional assistance play an important role in preventing adolescent problems. Here, Mr Korózs has already mentioned, and here again again, referring to the Fundamental Law, that one of the important amendments to the social law is the 8 million HUF cost to the homes. I can only bring up again what dangerous provisions the Fundamental Law has, and Prime Minister has said more recently that it is the parent's duty to support the child and the child's duty to support his parents, which I fully agree with, but not in a way that they will be punished afterwards. This law will be exactly the right thing to do. In connection with Congressman Teleki about cage fighting children, I would very much like the government to look at the social context of forcing these children to do this or even their parents to go into one of these. Again, this is due to the poverty in Hungary, and we know that these cage fights are for money. Why is this happening in Hungary today, which we have seen in, say, Western films, that it is already here in Hungary? The other is that we would support the fact that if these 14 years were extended to 18 years, because I think that if the age of growing up is 18 years, then that should be such a serious issue. Let's not draw a line from 14 years, and then this brutal sport can be allowed from here on out. We would also recommend that the MMA have a professional alliance. If it is just recreational activity, we can see that we do not know exactly how to control this activity. We hope that the Ministry will also take the initiative to do so, and I would really like to consider why Hungarian children and Hungarian families should be so forced to do so today. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-25-194	I'm asking if anyone else will come forward. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any speakers. Then the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-11-25-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Am I going to say no to Congressman Gur right now? How can I say this? I didn't respond in a premeditated way, my lack of routine is the reason I didn't answer the two-minute answer, but now I've learned that. The professional questions. Thank you very much and thank you for quite a lot of very, very different detailed and elaborate proposals. I think that many of these can still be accepted and incorporated at this stage. So I welcome and fully support proposals that are fundamentally well-intentioned and professionally sound. I think that in most cases it was possible to say that the same goal, the same whole, the same temper that drives us, is to provide better services to the recipients and recipients of services entrusted to us. I'd like to take some of the bigger nodes out. One is that more people said that it wasn't enough. Congressman Ikotity told me. This will be the first step in a process. I think it can be said that in this form and in this phase and in this step, we have now had to do so, but already this week and last week, the working groups have been set up to prepare for the further major amendments to the Spring Session on a larger scale, such as village care or the strengthening of child welfare. There have been quite simply a number of proposals, such as the transformation of village care, strengthening the child welfare service, rethinking the eligibility rules for home care and home assistance, which, here and now, with such short preparation time, would have been unworthy of us to take it out and introduce it. Thus, in terms of services, the re-regulation of eligibility schemes, the matching control system and the differentiated funding that fits it, as this is the main reason why the service structure is not adequate to the amount of work, quality, degree of difficulty in many cases, but in other cases there is a waste, which cannot be introduced in such a short period of time with a very short preparation period from 1 January. So we are going to propose that this package be now, and to supplement this, the spring package will follow. Mr Korózs mentioned dialogue with professional forums. That goes without saying. The first meeting took place on 12 August, followed by an average of two such meetings each week, on 5 September with foster care networks, in the vicinity of 15 September, for example with representatives of family supporters and children's welfare. So the Secretary of State and the Ministry require and wait for continuous dialogue between the representatives of the profession. It is quite clear that the long-term sustainable structures of professional dialogue and dialogue must also be developed. I remember the Social Policy Council with a good heart myself. I think that a coherent structure should be developed in this regard, which can create a future framework for the development of the profession, in a way similar to that of the Social Policy Council. It has not been abolished, however, but was originally created for five years by the legislation regulating it, and thus ended with the end of the legislation. Locked in parentheses. [[21.00]] The system of professional forums will be established, these discussions at expert level are ongoing, with 8-10 experts in each area. It's the village ward. I fully agree with this direction, and we are going to propose this, too, to basically try to think about how the system of village care, which is one of the most innovative types of services in the past 20 years' history of social law, can be considered as one of the most innovative types of service in the past 20 years' history. That's a very good term. Is that what I use? pushing it up, quite simply because the very important point of its innovation is that it is intersectoral. So it doesn't tell you that you're old, you're disabled, and the rest of you, who are in the area, can help everyone. The other is that it can mobilize you in segregation situations. It is precisely the bus, so transport is a very important means of accessing public services, and I see the Ministry of Interior will also support us to be able to make a significant contribution next year through the purchase of cars, as well as through the push-up. This is a very important direction. This is linked to home care or home assistance, which has been raised by Mr Korózs: it is not necessary to rethink the home care system in order to take funds from it. It is necessary to rethink that the resources released are given to those home care professionals who put themselves there very seriously, doing very serious work, but the 145 thousand normative does not reward this. [[Lajos Korózs: We agree on that.]] Now, my other groundwork is that in five years, the number and number of housewives will not go up from 48,000 to 125,000. That's what happened; that's what they say it's not normal. Is Hungarian society getting old? But not so much! The people sitting in the benches, however, I think they have knowledge of the area, and here, Mr Kovács also remembered this, he gave some examples, so this development is not fundamentally justified by the processes of the field, but rather by the fact that the regulation of eligibility is extremely justified? How can I say this? ? loose and uncoordinated controls. Therefore, in this area, it is very important to take action to ensure that public money really goes where the hardest work really is done, because there are a lot of home care providers that take this work very seriously, not doing what many people do to network then, and then bring nine others; we know this technique of networking home care. We would like to put an end to this and rethink, in parallel with the village management, the content regulation of what needs to be done in home care from July 2015 or 1 January 2016. That's what we're trying to think about. The next question is the foster family question. I also think that it was felt from my speech that this flexibility was understood and understood and supported in a positive way by everyone. That is why I would like to protect the current regulation, 500 hours of training and the current regulatory environment. The grounds for exclusion were not justified by inflexibleness, but by the professional argument that we often see that children cannot get out of foster care because there are lines of children. There are children's lines. So it's not the way to get out of the family, it's the defense of a child, a foster parent, another child, it's the lines. And if a foster parent can't place a larger line of children and take them because he's got some kind of job, there should be no conflict. In child protection there are many times so many, and is it in the interest of children to have brothers? Children's lines, let's call them, so that more brothers and sisters can be placed together. And that there shouldn't be any opposition to the fact that someone's doing a job, but they can't take on so many kids. Therefore, the regulation introduced in January was not essentially because important and relevant professional arguments were not heard, but simply based on the interests of the child. I think it's time to gather our experiences. This has now happened and can be refined accordingly in such a way that the child's interests are not put at risk. This will also be the main direction of the evaluation in the next period. The next issue is the strengthening of the child welfare system. We really think that here, Mr Edith, has said this, and today, the services that work well still function in an integrated way. So today, children's welfare services and those family supporters that really work with a professional conscience cooperate, because they say that there is no such thing as your family, my child, but that it is a family. Same case. And case management, so sitting around all the problems of a family is still at the top. This, which is here, justifies this practice, and encourages others not to build separate capacities: you have a legal advisor, I have a legal advisor, you have a psychologist, I have a psychologist, but you do encourage them to cooperate at least on an organizational level, and that makes it better for the family. The regulation does not affect content regulation. There was such a remark as to whether professional content would not be compromised. It is a huge development that in 1997 the child welfare service started with the continuing expansion and growth of professional content, and no one wants to endanger the professional capital that has gathered in the child welfare service. In fact, we hope, and this will again be in the spring package, that we hope that this particular signalling function and the confirmation that Mr Ikotity quoted from me can be further developed in that direction. So we not only give the signal system responsibility, but we also try a little extra capacity and additional tasks to take it seriously to put the real functioning of the signalling system at stake. So we are interested in the same thing: strengthening the child welfare service. The next one brings us to the boarding system and the one-off cost. I'd like to go back in time to the mid-2000s. 'Cause that's where this story starts. What happened in the mid-2000s? In the mid-2000s, three things came into force simultaneously in the social housing system. One is the high limit of the fee regulation from the top. This is how I referred to it in the expoze, which meant that it was not possible to charge a fee above the cost minus normative. The other was the reduction of the norm from HUF 760,000 to HUF 635,000, to HUF 125 thousand at the heights. So the normative reduction, the fee and the entry fee. That's what it was. It wasn't introduced now, it was in the 2000s. The entry consent was a legal institution. At the time, he had a limit of around 4 million 700,000 or 5 million, but that was it. The problem is that these three were pulled out of the system at the same time in the mid-2000s, i.e. the limitation of the institution fee, the withdrawal of the cost and the significant reduction of the normative effect, which made it impossible for residential institutions. The people in the benches know that this has caused very serious problems and causes problems in all residential institutions. Here, this proposal at least partially attempts to re-open one or two channels that allow a little more resources to flow into the boarding system. [[21.10]] Before the government was charged with digging into the client's pockets, it was this government that, after a long time, for the first time in 2013, increased the head quota in the field of services, for example in the elderly club by 30%, in the disability-to-day scheme by 50 percent, but even in the boarding system, there was a significant increase after the introduction of wage financing. Is that what I think? and one of his questions, Mr President, was what the goal was - to make it better for people with disabilities and even older people living in a residential institution. That's the most important goal. This is the most important goal, because many times we see in the institutions that they have been bled and underfunded. It is quite simply at the expense of the quality of supply that many times this type of financial impossibility has cost to the institutions, and we would like to give at least some opportunity. We do not consider it a danger that the institutions say that from now on 8 million forints, and then you cannot enter. This is not a realistic threat. Today, in the countryside, the institutions that are considered to be elevated can charge 200,000 forints. Two hundred. That's because people can't afford it. So I think that this is not a realistic risk that someone says that it will be a condition, and then... No. It is in the interest of the institution to include the elderly more than to apply for entry support. The point is that those who can pay a little more should have the opportunity to pay more so that they can provide for those who have a smaller pension. This particular differential rule and these measures have led to the fact that institutions have become counter-interested in the provision of small pensioners. This obstacle must be removed from the system, and we believe that when this rule was introduced that a one-time entry fee cannot be collected, then a one-time entry fee was applied for by the maintainers? They asked for me. Did it work? It worked. How? Black. So that's not the problem? So somehow the transaction took place, but the problem is that what is the source of the sector has been banished to the black economy. We'd like to bleach, clear these conditions. So anyone who has the opportunity to pay more will try to pay more, so that there is an opportunity to care for those who cannot pay. The guarantee, I think, is extremely important, what is in the proposal: it cannot happen that someone does not get in because they cannot pay. Is that what I think? and here we go to the state-civil distinction - that, since the state is now the ultimate responsible and dependent on care in the boarding system, it is a very important guarantee that it has a supply obligation, so no one can stay on the side of the road, no one can stay unattended. I think that this is the reason for civil-state discrimination, and that the supply obligation must provide everyone with the name. This is the state with your 51,000 seats, your boarding quarters. Currently, SZGYF, DG Social and Children's Protection, has such capacity. This is the underlying guarantee that guarantees that no one will be left unattended. In the meantime, the civilian part should be ensured precisely in order to avoid the levy so that it cannot be bypassed. There may be other guarantee rules for civilians; this seems to be suitable for 50 percent of the seats, not the other 50. But I can imagine other guarantee rules, so let's discuss this calmly. I think, overall, that the most important objective in the boarding system is to give the institutions a little oxygen, a little opportunity, a little extra room for movement, and to spend it essentially on maintenance, operation and physical equipment and the appreciation of staff. We really need this. Of course, there will be a next step here, too, when the head quota will have to start to be differentiated according to the degree to which the elderly or the disabled are in need of care. Obviously, this will also need to be complemented by a next step, but this will be part of a next package. It's too late, I'm sorry. I think that perhaps it was clear from the answers so far that the questions that Mr Korózs asked us were the answer. We believe that this package is not a responsible and unfavorable process of expertise. I apologize to everyone who has asked me questions, and I have not agreed in detail, but of course I am available in the next period, and we will answer them in detail. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-25-196	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of the discussion of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after today's agenda, which was undeservingly addressed by the title of budget amendments. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard in the title, the subject of this speech is on the proposals for amending the budget and revisiting those which could no longer take place in the otherwise narrow budget framework. One of these is the proposal tabled by me and two of my better fellow Members to increase public defenders' fees, which has a very important social significance, and I think it is worth making this known to my fellow Members on the one hand and to the wider public through the media on the other. The actuality is that the budget has the possibility to amend both the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Legal Assistance to increase the working fee of the other HUF 4000 per hour to HUF 5000 per hour. The direction of the amendment is not unknown, as the additions to the previous year's budget amendment were also Fidesz MEPs at the time, and would have been modified from HUF 3000 to HUF 5000 at the time, but the Committee on Budgets voted against it then. By the way, is it interesting to suggest that it wasn't caught out of the air and it wasn't caught in the air at all, since the Hungarian Bar Association was itself at the time? Hasn't this been modified since 2004? He wanted to determine 10,000 HUF/hour. What is there to know, however, because it is also important that they are less familiar with the nature of the legal institution, what is the public defender's fee, and what is it for? In order to do that, you have to know the role of a public defender, because he acts not only in criminal matters, but also in certain case-lawyer matters, case-by-case or case-lawyer matters. So all these rates apply to him, and overall, you have to see and know that he is acting when someone has a deficit, is at a disadvantage, otherwise whether he is deprived of his freedom or is subject to some kind of coercion when he cannot exercise his full rights, or otherwise the law gives him a limit when he cannot enforce his own legal interests. Thus, the public defender's office will certainly remove an obstacle that is very important for society. Which is, by the way, one of the features of the system is that it operates in an on-call system. Few people know that, too. It is not a permanent presence of a public defender, but it is present only at certain procedural events, so it is not possible to work eight hours at every stage of the day, and otherwise it will be paid by the court's economic office months later. I know that because I've been in this role several times myself, and it took months to wait for that fee to be paid. But why should it be important, because it is important to explain to the wider public what the importance of this is, why anyone wants to raise the hourly fee from HUF 4000 to HUF 5000, because this may seem to be extremely high if you look at it with the eyes of laymen. It should be seen that a public defender can assist in the role and search for rights of more disenfranchised people, people in socially difficult situations or people in financially poor conditions, and can therefore also promote the recognition of these persons in their law. On the other hand, it means an institutional appreciation, because society will also value such activities more, and on the other hand it will strengthen confidence in the institution itself, the public defender, and on the one hand it will increase the quality of such public defender activities. [[21.20]] As a closing point, the Hungarian Bar Association welcomes this amendment on the basis of the letter sent, supports it itself, and considers it very important that it be translated into legislation. The other is a subject and a local topic that has already been addressed: I cannot go past the subject in silence that the building of the Karcag Police Department is still waiting for you, as I mentioned in my first speech here in this House. This issue remains relevant, and it is now possible to find the appropriate framework within the framework of the Ministry of Interior, within its financial scope, when amending the budget. There is already a plan for this building, the place is already available, and there is also the need to improve the working environment of police officers working there, because they are in a 110-year-old lease with crumbling walls that are not capable of embodying public confidence in the police. So Jobbik thought that there was a need for more money for this, and it must be able to make money, and it knows where to take it from, for example, from a similar reform fund of the TEK, or, for example, from John Lazarus's pocket money, these costs can be taken away with a calm heart. I call on the Members of Karcag to support, if possible, these proposals and this proposal concerning Karcag. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Cutter Sebestyén and László Kiss applaud.]]
u2014-11-25-198	Mónika Bartos applied for a post-meeting speech:. Report on the events of the UN's 2014 parliamentary hearing and on the Hungarian engagement in the development of sustainable development goals. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-25-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor because, last week, I attended the UN Parliamentary hearing in 2014 with my fellow Member István Józsa, which was at the heart of his thinking:. Strengthening the human-centred approach to the new sustainable development goals, shared responsibility. What does that mean? In 2000, 189 UN Member States committed themselves to ending severe poverty and famine by 2015, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and helping women to rise, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, fighting HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and building a global partnership for development. These are called the Millennium Development Goals. The Millennium Development Goals are considered by the public to be one of the most successful UN initiatives, backed up by the international community, and the steps taken to implement them have led to significant results, while errors have arisen which have led to criticisms. Taking these criticisms into account, the Sustainable Development Goals have been set, and Hungary has also been actively involved as the co-chair of the UN Open Working Group on Sustainable Development, which has shared this position with Kenya for a period of one and a half years. The report of the working group was adopted by the Assembly on 10 September of this year. Dialogue, an open method of work that gives all Member States the opportunity to participate, was a high priority in the preparation of the report. The proposal contains 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets. Sustainable development objectives are to eliminate all forms of poverty; to eliminate hunger, to ensure food security, to ensure a varied diet, to ensure sustainable agriculture; to promote healthy life and general well-being for all ages; to provide inclusive and adequate quality education and lifelong learning for all; to achieve gender equality, to ensure the advancement of women and young children; to ensure access to water management and public health for all; to provide accessible, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all; to promote sustainable and long-term economic growth, to promote full and profitable employment and decent work for all; to promote flexible infrastructure building, inclusive and sustainable industrialisation; to promote innovation; to reduce inequalities within and between countries; to combat sustainable forest management, to make land degradation and sustainable; to ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns; to take urgent action against climate change and its effects; to ensure sustainable use of oceans, seas, marine resources; to promote sustainable access to justice and sustainable use of the terrestrial ecosystem; to ensure sustainable development of all types of the environment; to ensure sustainable development of sustainable development and sustainable development of sustainable development of sustainable civil society at the level; to ensure sustainable development of all types; to ensure sustainable access to ensure sustainable development of sustainable development of all; During the UN parliamentary hearing, MEPs discussed the proposal in several sections, and I spoke in the fourth panel myself. As it is revealed for sustainable development purposes, and as we have repeatedly emphasised in this House, sustainability is not equal to environmental protection. Sustainability is based on the coordination of three systems, the environment, the economy and society. It follows naturally that many aspects are met, many interests conflict. It is therefore a great achievement for Hungary that it has been able, as its co-chairman, to fight and draw up a report, which was adopted by a public cry. Thanks to Ambassador Csaba Kőrösi and the staff of the United Nations Mission in New York for this success, which together is the success of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2014-11-25-200	Member László Kiss also applied for a post-the-meeting speech:. The rest is twice annoyed by I.? Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. the title of the national experience of district renovations. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-25-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. The population of the district was very pleased to learn that during 2014 the complex integrated sewage treatment project will be launched in Budapest, which will connect a large number of households to the sewage network. With this, many of the families of Csillaghegy and the mountain region must have felt that their sewage treatment problem would finally be solved, as they could join this system. Much of the work is carried out by Strabag-MML Kft. He's done, he's done. Of course, in connection with the investment, a significant amount of road surfaces had to be opened. However, there have been a great deal of problems with the opening and restoration of road surfaces, and the comments made by the general public have constantly indicated these errors, but they have not been resolved or have been delayed. Among the complaints, allow me to explain some of them. The construction of the canal was completed on 22 July in the section of Ringató Street between Rozália and Gladiátor Street, but after that no other construction works were carried out at this stage of the street until November. The canal ditch was covered with earth, but the land on the asphalted part of the road was not cleaned up during the construction, and the area covered with grass before construction was not restored before Nos 21, 25 and 27 of Ringató Street, which remains covered with soil and sand. With effect from 11 November 2014, Strabag undertook to restore the relevant section of the road, which is difficult to imagine, unless Strabag has completed the development of a cold and freezing lawn in November. It is easy to imagine that even as such a lawn does not exist, Strabag could not recreate in November the area of which he himself undertook to renovate and restore, with effect from 11 November. According to residential signs, part of the land was dug out of the buried canal ditch on 10 November in the affected section, crushed stone was placed in its place and the surface of the trench was covered with concrete. [[21.30]] Only then will asphalting take place, we are talking about the work to be completed on 11 November, so it is clear that there is definitely a delay in the deadline. The residents kept asking for proper dedusting during the constructions in places where there is no more sewerage work, but asphalting has not yet taken place. So it is not that the residents asked that there should be no such renovation, but that, where the works had already been completed, but that the final road surface had not yet been restored, the dust and udder clearance would take place. Despite the fact that the complaints were ongoing on Ringató Street on Rozália and Gladiátor Street, no action was taken. Similarly, there was no cleaning of the working or standing machines, and the dust was on them, as was the case in all parts of the surrounding area. You can imagine that in August, the rainy inhabitants suffered from the mudless mud, and in the warm September they suffered from the dust. How absurd the situation was, the residents photographed this case, photographed how the mud stood, and then the dust in this area, and sent it to Strabag; there was neither action nor any meaningful response to that. When I was asked, who, by the way, I'm not the parliamentary representative of the district, but III. as a former municipal representative of the district and III. As a district resident, of course, I'm very fond of the people who live there, so I wrote to Strabag myself. I've asked them to intervene and do what they do, the mud and dust removal in areas where they don't do any work. A reply to this e-mail was received about the registration of the problem, but while more than 60 days have passed since sending my e-mail, I have received no meaningful reply. The bigger problem is not that I don't get an answer, but that the people who live there didn't get an answer, and despite the fact that the people who live there support the work themselves, they just want to put it in a bearable place. There was no action in this either. That is why I have to talk about the experience of district renovations on this road, in this House, because it is an important experience that an investment that can be spoiled by a faulty, bad implementation that is otherwise supported by the community living there. I would like to ask this House to have an impact on its own environment so that all necessary and good investment can be made in a way that does not bother people unnecessarily, as Strabag did not do at home, in accordance with Article III. in the district. Thank you for listening.
u2014-11-25-202	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your hard work, and I will see you at 8:00 in the morning, and then the Parliament will begin. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:32 p.m.]]
