u2014-12-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I salute my fellow Members, our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. This is the opening of an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament during the winter. I would like to inform you that you will be attending the meeting with notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, asked for a speech before the agenda today:. Did they continue? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-16-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In this year's election campaign, people expected two basic questions from the party that won the election: on the one hand, how to make a better living and on the other hand, how to reduce corruption in Hungary. If we are looking for the answer to the first question, first of all, it should be said that for many people, living has been difficult over the last ten years because of the emerging foreign currency crisis. Compared to this, Fidesz has campaigned several rounds this year to solve the foreign exchange credit crisis. The end of this was the bad shake-over of the foreign exchange lenders after the forinting was carried out on a market basis. In the previous cycle, the plan developed that the Orbán government wants a Hungary which is basically a assembly country, with untrained, low-income people mostly slaving in the assembly plant of multis and some domestic oligarchs. For those who do not have a living in these assembly halls, they either leave the country or go to a public worker for income that is not a living. This is the negative vision of a community-based society in Hungary today. Let's look at the numbers instead of the government glory report. Today, the net average wage is 153 thousand forints, which is 83 percent of the EU average. If we compare net average wages in Hungary in 2013-14, then we see that szabolcs wages account for 55% of the wages in Budapest. Job creation has developed as follows over the past four years. For companies with more than 5 employees, there were 46,000 more jobs in the competitive sector in 2014 than in 2010. From 2013 to 2014, there was a 0.1 percent increase in the sector of companies with more than 5 employees in the open labour market. This was largely due to the fact that most of the EU funds were allocated before the elections. According to the labour force survey, there has been an annual increase of 157 000 jobs in Hungary since 2010, two thirds of which are public works and work abroad. So in the glory report there is the sad fact that if current trends continue, Hungary will be a country without grandchildren. And the most promising figure is that in 2011-12, the proportion of people out of public work was 7.4 percent, according to government statistics, the different estimates are between 5 and 8 percent, thus minimising the proportion of those who can return from public employment to the primary labour market. In Hungary, income poverty affects 33 percent of the total population and 3.3 million people. This means that poverty growth is now poverty for workers. It means that in a country where the national economy produces high added value at a very low level, income levels cannot increase. The other plan is for the government, which Viktor Orbán announced in the summer of 2013 that the winners of this system will be designated by state-owned means, and the new oligarchs will be designated. Let us be clear that when we talk about corruption, we are not merely referring to the criminal category regulated in the Btk. We think that the rich few, the oligarchs, can capture a country. This is what is going on in Hungary today, which is what we have seen in the case of the latest Traffic Law adopted yesterday. The LMP has put a number of proposals on the table this year on how to cut back corruption, free the Hungarian state from the captivity of the oligarchs and give it back to the people. These proposals, either our proposal to expel the offshore knights or our proposals for the full transparency of public procurement applications, have been swept off the table, just as they are trying to escape the NAV investigation committee. The Prime Minister has also stated in recent days that there is no need for brakes in the system in Hungary. Today we are witnessing that you have believed that after the two elections won, everything can go unbridled. Today, Hungary is about the fact that many people are poor, few are rich, and Hungary is isolated. Redesign is needed for a renewable Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-12-16-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr L. Simon László, State Secretary, will respond.
u2014-12-16-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If I am listening to you in your speech before Parliament's agenda, I think we have the left-wing unity. You are performing the same left-wing demagoguery that we hear in Parliament from the socialists and the DKs. I was amazed this morning when I listened to Ference Gyurcsány on Kossuth Radio, who said that you were constantly sabotaging the left-wing unit, obstructing cooperation, and in fact Fidesz snipers. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that. I can't decide who's right now, but one thing's for sure: you operate with numbers and data all the time completely ignoring all professionalism and the real state of the country. If you were right, voters wouldn't have rewarded us three times with their trust, we wouldn't have won the elections three times with such an element. But let us look at the results, ladies and gentlemen, because we should not be talking about them. While you have here set the governance of the last few years as if it were a series of failures, and as if we were conducting an unsubstantiated prognosis of success, I must say that the facts are completely different. The economic model implemented in 2010 by the Orbán government, which took over the country in a catastrophic state, proved its success. No one in Europe is questioning this today, honourable Member. GDP grew only by 3.2 percent this year, in the third quarter, compared to a year earlier. The EU growth average was 1.3 percent higher than the growth of the Hungarian economy every year, and this makes Hungary one of the 3-4 best performing countries in the ranking of the EU's Member States. Dear fellow Member, Compared to GDP, public debt is constantly falling. At the end of 2013, it sank to 79,4 percent, which is one of the largest reductions in public debt among EU Member States. The government debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to decrease further in 2014, with 76.3 percent expected by the end of the year. Honourable Congressman, You point out to us that we have actually managed to deal with some problems only before the elections, by throwing out EU funds. Other times, they look at why EU funds are not being paid quickly and why EU funds are not being used as efficiently as possible. You are arguing with yourself, my honourable fellow Member. What I can tell you is that Hungary is using EU funds as efficiently as possible in the region as one of the most successful policies, and we are prepared as quickly as possible for the 2014-2020 development period. [[9.10]] Dear fellow Member, I would like to inform you that, as soon as possible after the change of government, we have reduced the budget deficit to below 3 per cent. We have held this in recent years, we will continue this year, and we will continue to do so next year, as opposed to many other European countries that are criticising us. Maybe you should take care of that fact. [[Dr. András Schiffer keeps interrupting.]] You are constantly misinforming the country about foreign exchange creditors - you, too, just now. It is not worth speaking to the socialists on this issue, because they pushed the country into this crisis, they forced Hungary into this foreign currency credit scheme, and they are asking us to do what they have not done for eight years. The reality, my honourable fellow Member, is that some 400 financial institutions have to account for every consumer's foreign exchange and HUF credit, which affects some 1.3 million families in total, we are talking about 680 thousand foreign currency and 650 thousand forints. Thanks to the law we have created and adopted, more than HUF 1000 billion will be returned to Hungarian families, honourable Member. Obviously, in other debates, you are looking at the fact that if we push the Hungarian banking system for foreign exchange credentials further, the banking system will collapse. Make up your mind that you're actually... [[Dr. András Schiffer: When did we say that?]] Congressman, don't yell at me. I listened to you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I've listened to you and I'll answer you. You've had five minutes to give your opinion, you've told me that I'm answering now. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Honourable Congressman, It is up to you to decide that you will then be on the side of the foreign exchange lenders or the banking system. Finally, decide whether or not they can accept the solution model, thanks to which we helped the foreign exchange lenders to a large extent, while at the same time maintaining the stability of the Hungarian banking system. Honourable Congressman, With regard to poverty, I can say that what is going on here in Parliament and in communication is completely unworthy. In fact, the Hungarian government, the Orbán government, is doing everything possible to raise Hungarian society as much as possible and expand the middle class. According to CSF and Eurostat data, poverty did not increase in 2013, but decreased by nearly 250 000 people. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true!]] the number of Hungarians exposed to poverty and social exclusion. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, fellow Members, you are arguing with Eurostat and not with us. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true. Fake the data! The president's ringing the bell.]] The latest Eurostat survey shows...
u2014-12-16-4	Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-5	... turns out that we have managed to bring poverty below the level before the economic crisis. Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP:. What do we get from the Orbán government for Christmas? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-16-7	Mr President, Dear House, In answer to my immediate question, Viktor Orbán said that the number of poor people in Hungary is not increasing, but decreasing. And in one question-and-answer, he claimed that poverty would be reduced even if the questioner had experienced something else. KSH has also shown that the number of people living in income poverty has increased, child poverty has increased, and even the depth of poverty has increased in Hungary. People don't live in a sealed shell like you do. They see that the lines are getting longer and longer than food distribution, and they see that the market is not the bouquet, but the tail is running out as soon as possible. The whole country collects coupons and hunts for action, not because they're bored, but because they don't have enough money to make a living. Orbán also said that today the poor have more money than before, in exchange for work. That's not true either. They get less wages for community service than they did in 2010. And if they're unemployed, there's less money and less time. According to Viktor Orbán, if kindergarten is mandatory from the age of three, it means that all children will eat in Hungary at least three times a day. This will eliminate child poverty. What you're forgetting is that not only preschoolers are starving, but children, adolescents, young people, old people, adults. Child poverty is not only about eliminating hunger, but also about whether there is a roof over the child's head, whether there is enough income for the family, or whether there is any heating or electricity in the apartment. Does the child even have a chance? They promise that from 2016 more people will receive free meals. Honourable Members, What's gonna happen in 2015? How do they survive 2015? Secretary of State Bence Rétvári's reply will certainly be over eight years, but he will not talk about reality or facts. Let's see what happens under the Christmas tree, what awaits the Hungarian families today! The value of the family allowance has decreased by 25-30 percent in recent years. Their actions have made it less and shorter today. There will be compulsory kindergartens, yes, only for those who are thought not to receive adequate education at home, but they will even lose their family allowance if they do not attend kindergartens despite the obligation. But they're eliminating regular social assistance, housing support, debt management. Next year, we will not be able to provide public health care or care fees as a result of fairness. That's gonna take away the last of the 600,000 families. What will the municipalities make of money? Local taxes. Which you can now put on everyone and everything. So, according to the government, next year there will be no money for families, pensioners, aid, no money for social workers, no early retirement next year. [[L. Simon László: This is unbelievable!]] But next year there will be money for stadiums, propaganda, TEK and, of course, for Prime Minister to move to the Castle. And people will get soap taxes, shampoo taxes, detergent taxes, they can pay at the M0 and almost anywhere they've never had to before. Dear Secretary of State, These are facts. There's no reason for me to ask you earlier when the government will put you down for anti-family and anti-popular measures. What you could tell me was that anti-popular crimes were common use of words in the '50s. Apparently, Mr. Secretary, you didn't even understand why that reference was made. What you are doing to Hungarian society is a crime of social policy, a crime that will never end because the families and children of those affected are at risk. These changes mean that for at least 1.5 to 2 million people, including 400,000 children, there will be a government verdict that there is no need for them. Meanwhile, next year, János Lázár will have money for millions of watches, Lajos Kósa to travel to New Zealand, Péter Szijjártó to heat up his luxury villa for the growth of Antal Rogán's apartment in the residential park. But we know that Peter Harrach told us that this is a matter of life. If a child doesn't eat breakfast, it's the same choice as Árpád Habony's bag. Imagine, fellow Members, if you do not believe these, go out to the protesters this afternoon and quote your prime minister, if you are men, really men, you will face these people and you will explain the next year's budget. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Relax. Relax. Calm down.]] Believe me, these people know what they're doing. And I wish you a merry Christmas in light of that.
u2014-12-16-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Secretary of State L. Simon László will respond to what has been said. [[It's a lot of noise.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Well, that was very serious. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes, serious.]] Today, what you have said here is the low point of Hungarian democracy, the peak of political demagogy! That Hungarian people collect coupons and hunt for action? ! Well, please... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and My feeling was that while I was listening to you, you probably went to prison, and with Gábor Simon, who was on the verge of hunger, agreed the text, and he dictated to you this excellent speech before the agenda. I've been visualizing that the next year on M0 will stop traffic, because not only will people have no money to pay for the M0 sticker, but they won't be able to buy any fuel in their Trabants from the '80s. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let's pick up where Congressman Schiffer left off. Let's start over with the data. According to the latest KSH and Eurostat data, I said earlier, not only did poverty increase in 2013, but the number of Hungarians exposed to poverty or social exclusion decreased by nearly 250,000. [[Lajos Korózs: That's not true! That's not true.]] The latest Eurostat survey also shows that poverty has been halted and even reduced to a pre-economic level. [[István Gábor Bellozó: Just because you read it doesn't mean the lie will be true.]] This does not mean, of course, that the crisis is over; rather, that government steps have brought fruit, honourable Members. However, as long as a single person is at risk in Hungary, we will not sit back and allow ourselves such demagogic speeches as you have just allowed yourself, honourable Member. Today, the point that we have to say is that we have changed the trend, not the increase, but the decline in poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let us look at the specific figures that you are not listening to: in 2015 the state will spend 58 billion forints on the children's meal programme, which is 5.5 billion more than in 2014, honourable Member, while you are condemning the budget here. [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Next summer, the government will provide free meals for 120,000 children of another HUF 3 billion, and perhaps we should not forget that. From 2015 onwards, kindergarten care is mandatory from the age of three, including free catering for those in need - a major help for families with poor fates. You should stop this demagoguery here about starving children; all children will have to go to kindergarten, all children will be given meals. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] And the government can handle that. You don't solve it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What's on winter break?]] the poverty that Hungary is characterized by; we inherited it from you was the result of your blessed activities. In 2015, 700,000 children will receive a free textbook package, honourable Member. Thank God there won't be a child who won't get it in Hungary. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: There will be a book of reading in No, Vember!]] for textbooks. With regard to employment and public work, it is also good to take a few things again. Full employment is within reach of the government's economic policy. You can feel sorry for the public work programme, but in fact, the message of this social policy is very important. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] A series of children and generations have grown up in the last two decades with their basic socialization experience of not going to work, of not going to work, of not going to work, of having beer and plasma TV. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Maybe that's what we should face. That's what we should be up against. Ladies and gentlemen, Today nearly 4.2 million people work in Hungary [[István Gábor Bellozó: I put this on Facebook...]] It's very important. More than 400 000 new jobs have been created since the change of government in 2010. Over 400,000 new jobs! By the third quarter, I was down to 7.4 percent... [[Anita Herring: We believe that!]] - the unemployment rate, which in 2010, when you failed, my fellow Members, stood at 11,3%. Let's face it. This means that the number of unemployed people has decreased by some 150,000 since then. Everything you tell me here is a lie, a demagogy [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] open incitement and confrontation of social groups. (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.) This is strongly rejected by the current national government building on social solidarity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP, with the title "Politicals without advent - thoughts on protests on 16 December" will be followed by his speech before the agenda.
u2014-12-16-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Noise in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, Dear House, We're in the last week of Advent. In these days, the Christian soul is preparing to celebrate the greatest event in world history - the birth of Jesus of Nazareth. This is the case in Hungary with Christian roots; and so far it has been. This year, the Christian national side has won three elections with great importance. Perhaps this was also due to the fact that the underprivileged minority, of which the loudest part, has roots that go back to 1919 or 17 years, takes out the script that was then well-established for them. In May 1912, Béla Kun spoke like this at a labor demonstration in Cluj-Napoca, then only working secretary: At the outbreak of the French Revolution, when the National Assembly ruled over the king's decapitation, the most typical and powerful speaker reflected the revolutionary era, who briefly summarized his motion: death to the king, without any phrase. There's no place for a phrase right now, but there's a need to act. Tisza has overturned the rule of law, our most sacred right, and has strangled the freedom of the press. At the beginning of 1918, back in Soviet Russia, Béla Kun told his former prisoners of war, who had been raised a communist: Go home and burn the whole country on fire, break all obstacles to the liberation of the oppressed. Set the country on fire. The words said had consequences: Red and White Terror, a vulnerable, indefensible country in anarchy. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, we have seen that today's demonstrations in Budapest are building up in a similar way. Inviting almost armed rebellion on the dedicated speech and Internet sites, the specific designation of the target, the inciting of a desperate mood, and finally, after closing the meeting, the uncontrolled crowd, which comes to mind, in fact, the essence is anarchy. Without facts and specifics, undeserving and contentful speeches are being given at advent nights. They don't care that it's advent and we're getting ready for Christmas. They also do not care that the country is finally coming out of the political, economic, moral misery that they have caused. They're protesting against everything that can be protested. No specific purpose, no program, no alternative, no leading personality. Just party and anarchy. [[Anita Heringes: Is this a party, Mr. Secretary?]] Instead of rational dialogue, discretion, caution, and peace, there is destruction, chaos, anarchy's intention in the air. Today, however, unlike the Gyurcsány Kort, they do not shoot out the eyes of protesters, they do not collect and humiliate protesters on the streets, and they do not cripple peaceful people. Ladies and gentlemen, However, there are situations in which protests are understandable and justified; a peaceful, common-thinking movement, which is a tool common to democracy and an essential part of it. There has been such a movement recently, which has also reached its goal. Dear House, In 1919, behind the back of Béla Kun was Lenin, and behind the Carpathians was the Red Army. There are others in the background today; others who view our region as having no power and will to establish national sovereignty here. Those who do not like that we have sided with the people instead of the banks, and we do not like that - not asking the IMF's guardianship - we have taken our own economic policy off the EU's sham box, we have stabilised the country's budget, we have reduced our overhead costs, we have given more than 4.2 million people a job, we can expect unemployment below 7 percent, we have a stable economic performance, GDP shows a performance above 3 percent. Meanwhile, the real value of pensions and earnings has increased because we have managed the taxes of the poor, inflation. Today, Hungary supports families by reducing the tax burden on work and businesses, seeking medicine for the worrying demographic situation. Ladies and gentlemen, Christmas is coming to pass; Pope Francis prayed to the Virgin at the feast of unblemished conception on December 8th:. In this period, which leads us to the celebration of Jesus'birth, teach us to go against the tide, to give ourselves up, to humble ourselves, to give ourselves up, to teach us to listen, to be silent and to step out of ourselves, to give room to God's beauty, to be a source of true joy! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is the attitude I urge everyone to take now, in the last week of Advent 2014. It is in the interests of the country and the nation to resolve our common problems through a peaceful, sound dialogue - we Hungarians and we settle it at home. I wish you all a blessed and truly peaceful Christmas in the name of KDNP! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2014-12-16-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The congressman spoke about protests, and let us say that the possibility of protests is that protests can be held peacefully on the streets of Budapest in any length; this was not so evident a few years ago. After all, we remember that when there were spontaneous protests against the left-wing government, they used the trick of declaring Kossuth Square an operational area to keep the masses out of it; when the Fidesz-KDNP held a peaceful commemoration on 23 October, they tried to disperse the peaceful, commemorative crowd there with a cavalry attack, tear gas and rubber bullets. So, in fact, the assembly right was never respected by the MSZP, it was never desired when he was on the government, it was guaranteed to others, and when he was even in opposition, and in addition to the government, there were people who lived with the right to peaceful assembly and organized a peace procession, they couldn't swallow it, but they called it a frog's march, they mocked it, tried to make fun of it, not respecting the right of people to stand up for a government and against a government, in any case, but only their current political position determined it. Perhaps the consequence of this is that these protests also have to be learned by the MSZP, because in other cases, disgruntled parties in other countries choose opposition parties to convey their will, to express their views either in Parliament or in other political forums. [[9.30]] Hungary is also a unicum in this respect, as those dissatisfied with the government are also so dissatisfied with the opposition's parties that they are not sending their message to the government by them, but are organizing their own, completely alternative network, organizing civil protests, from which they explicitly request that party logos and different flags be kept away, so that they can bring crowds to the streets. The fact that the organizers themselves, the sponsors, the sponsors of the event, who cover the costs, what party affiliation they have, we have seen various facts over the last few weeks about how there was money to organize these demonstrations. But it is clear that the organizers' request is that neither the logos of the MSZP nor any other party should be brought there, as they know that they would not be able to invite crowds to the streets, and would be opposed. I also think that the MSZP should think carefully about the fact that even those who go against the government are not willing to engage in any kind of community with the MSZP. I think we all know what voices are being said by the MSZP now and for the next three and a half years about the government, because last weekend, the Hungarian Socialist Party stated in the party resolution that poverty will increase in Hungary over the next three and a half years, which is why the MSZP will speak on this matter. The MSZP Congress last weekend made it clear that you are no longer interested in any statistics. When the Secretary of State quotes Eurostat data here, they shout out that it's a lie and that it's faked. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, they are not always so critical of Eurostat, they have sometimes had a slightly different approach to these figures. Now that Eurostat has reduced the number of people exposed to poverty by 241 thousand people in Hungary, you no longer like this, because Eurostat data and the party resolution of the MSZP are against each other, and you can only resolve this conflict by shouting. However, there have been numerous misconceptions in the protests of the past few weeks, if you can say it was political hoax, rumours about which the government had no intention, or, in many cases, there have obviously been misinterpreted interpretations of a proposal, and the protest against it has been the main motive of many speeches. This was, for example, the reduction of high school seats, for which, of course, no bill was submitted to Parliament, and the budget law did not include it, nor could it contain it. In the fields of education and health, there is talk of withdrawal, while healthcare has 6 percent more. There is also increasing resources in education, plus 7 billion in higher education, plus 13 billion in secondary education. In the case of pensions, only this government has been able to maintain or even increase the value of pensions over the last decade, not to take away a month's allowance, but to give a month's allowance to pensioners and those in difficulty. They are talking about an economy in ruins, while GDP is rising above 3 per cent and retail sales are rising above 5 per cent. It is not a sign of poverty, honourable Members and Members, if the increase in retail traffic is 5.5 percent. There's a lot of facts and data to tell, but as a close-up, I wish you all had a peaceful, happy Christmas in a family circle when you leave this horseshoe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr János Sneider, on behalf of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda. [[Intercoms: Tom!]] Tamás Sneider, yes. It's spelled wrong. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Here.
u2014-12-16-15	Today in Hungary the probability that a man will live to the age of 65 is only 64 percent. That's only 50 percent of all undergrads. So every second man dies before he's 65. All this was said by Mary Kopp in 2009. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the situation in which the Hungarian male society is facing retirement. And in this situation, what have you decided, my fellow Members of the Fidesz? In the last term, they have decided to take away the few retirement years they deserve from workers who have worked themselves almost to death in dangerous jobs, often on several shifts. But what is it about? Only five years. Five years from which the employer pays the extra pension costs. There are two options: early retirement, where employers pay 13 per cent of the additional contributions in order to allow these workers to retire five years earlier; and there is early retirement, when the employer pays a lump sum of the amount that must be paid in order to be able to retire sooner by a worker who deserves it because he worked in a workplace where he has often worked himself in inhumane conditions. From the very beginning, Jobbik has said that we consider this procedure inhuman. We find it inhumane that a banker and a gardener can retire at the age of 65. We find it inhuman for a banker or a rubber factory worker, paramedic, or driver to retire at the age of 65. However, it is no wonder that we find it inhumane, since there is no example in Europe that a governing party would think that everyone should retire only at the age of 65. You, on the other hand, are obsessed with the idea that this is the right thing to do. We, on the other hand, say that together with society as a whole, together with trade unions and workers, we really need to rethink the pension system. You have to think about it because it's bleeding from a lot of wounds. We need a much fairer and better functioning system. In our opinion, this system, in addition to early retirement, must be an important element of what you have already introduced for women, namely that after 40 years of employment, men should also have the opportunity - not compulsory, but have the opportunity - to retire. What benefits would such a measure have if they heeded this counsel or thought about it? I would like to start by saying that this is a natural thing in Western Europe, since early retirement was introduced from the 1980s, and precisely because there was high unemployment, and there was extremely high unemployment among young people in particular. The same is the case in Hungary today, in an almost permanent crisis: there is a huge unemployment rate among young people, and as a result, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens, young Hungarians or middle-aged people are leaving Hungary today. This system worked in Western Europe in the 1980s, and then the systems there have been adapted to reduce unemployment, and a new method has now been introduced, and this is a progressive way of gradually removing the older age groups that are facing retirement from the labour market. What does that mean? This means that they don't have to work for eight hours, say, at 60, but only for six hours, and then at 63, they only have to work for four hours, and in many cases they set up an apprentice who graduated from the schools there, and he can learn from the older master all the tricks of the profession. The employers themselves support this. In many cases, they prefer this system at car factories, and I could still list areas where I think it should be introduced at home as soon as possible. And, of course, it would be an advantage to whiten the economy, because if someone wants to retire early, they have an elemental interest in working at a declared job, otherwise they do not have an employment relationship. Please consider this, and consider even more in relation to the recent protests whether it is fair that the system you have established is acceptable that, say, a paramedic, at the age of 65, has to bring down a patient of 150 kilos from the fourth floor. I'm asking who of you would be able to do this job. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-16	Thank you, Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Czomba will respond to what has been said.
u2014-12-16-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very serious issue, so I suggest we start with the right level of calmness. First of all, let us clarify what the age discount system is about. The basic situation is that the employer has an obligation to fulfil the conditions for healthy and safe work. If this is not possible, then in some way, with some kind of discount, the employer will try to pay the extra load that someone can get. [[9.40]] The early retirement scheme as a system no longer exists in Hungary as of 1 January 2012, since from 1 January 2012 it became a pre-age benefit, which is different not only in words but also in content. But I would like to stress that all those who have been in early retirement positions have been entitled to this entitlement. [[Noise.]] I would like to draw the ladies' attention to the fact that women who gain 40 years of entitlement continue to be entitled. Although the situation of women in the labour market has improved a lot in recent years, they are far from where men are, so we want to maintain this achievement in the next period. However, as far as the current system is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to some important things. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 70 percent of all early retirements are in state-owned enterprises or local government-owned enterprises, 62 percent are in public transport for all concerned. Look at Europe, it's an example. There is no early pension scheme in many Member States of Europe, Britain, Sweden, the Netherlands, Ireland and I could list it. It is not a coincidence, these countries are in a strong position on the labour market, and they are not. There is one where it is, but it does not affect public transport workers at all; Finland, Germany, or, let us say, to come closer to Slovakia. So the question and the proposal is whether the 800 jobs that are in the system at the moment are really the jobs that actually qualify for early retirement. For 17 years, politics has pushed this problem ahead of you and it hasn't solved it. That is why we have said that, if, on the basis of realistic criteria, we see that, despite technological developments, there are jobs in which there may be legitimate expectations - this may be waged, this may be in the form of a discount on working time and not in early hours, it may be in a lighter position, as is otherwise done in many places in Western Europe; here is what we are talking about, and we would like it to remain on the negotiating table - but the system of early retirement, the system of early retirement, as it is, cannot and cannot be maintained. I would like to draw the attention of those who are now telling men to retire after 40 or 42 years of employment. If the basic situation or the question of whether he deserves it in Hungary, I say that in any job, someone should retire if he worked 40 to 45 years, of course - the only question is what the consequences would be. In the coming years, over 57 years there will be more than 50,000 people who leave the labour market, carpenters, carpenters, masons, I could list the professions, and we will not be able to replace the system from the bottom. The second serious problem is that more than 15,000, more than 15,000 engineers will be out of the labour market. If we choose the institution of early retirement, then we will virtually not be able to address the problem. And as for what you said, this is the quasi-job sharing solution, I would like to draw attention not to the fact that Jobbik invented it and the government bit it. Look at the statements from earlier years. In previous years, we have looked at this job sharing system, so what really works in several places in Western Europe is that the young people who are facing retirement are still in the labour market, and the young who are starting the career are entering, and we are actually dealing with the problem in a split position - there is no time to give a detailed account - it is still on the government's table at the moment. So we're looking at all the options, we're trying to help everyone, but this pension system or early retirement pension system, which, I say it again, has been paved for 17 years, can't be maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Please note that the Chamber of Parliament is not a walk-in room, who wants to talk to you, come out to the corridor; we will indicate that if a decision is to be taken. And now, before the agenda, Mr Bence Tuzson, on behalf of the Fidesz, has applied for a speech: "Do you understand the sovereignty of Hungary? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. And please take your seats in the Chamber.
u2014-12-16-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Perhaps few remember when the first freely elected Parliament was formed in 1990 and the first freely elected government was formed, how it felt when the country was partially regained sovereignty, and perhaps few remember when the last Soviet soldier, the last Soviet soldier, left the country on 19 June 1991. That's when the country regained its sovereignty, and a state ceased. A state has ceased, and this condition has been the pressure of a government of a country, using the army that it is stationed here in Hungary, on the government of another country to force it to do something, not to do it, or to tolerate it. This condition has ceased at this time, and this condition is called a violation of sovereignty. So we must ask whether there is still a situation where this sovereignty is damaged or sovereignty itself is a constant state. We must draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, no, it is not a constant state, we must always make sure that this sovereignty is not damaged. We Hungarians, in particular, must pay attention to this, because we also have a historic duty in this regard, because we have a centuries-old demand that our sovereignty has been restored. [[Noise.]] I would like to draw your attention to a recent event when a Secretary of State of the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs gave a speech, a rather interesting speech about anti-corruption in particular. I would like to point out here that our commitment is to combat corruption as much as possible, but this speech was also partly about sovereignty; sovereignty, which meant, and a statement in this speech that the United States of America supports certain social organisations in order to put pressure on the governments of individual states. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that if this claim were true, then that would mean that a government in a given country, using a social organisation in another country, operating and supporting it, would put pressure on another country's government in order to force it to do something, not do it or tolerate it. I think that this is unacceptable, and it is even more unacceptable if we continue to listen to the words and look at this speech, because it is also about two dozen states in Europe where the United States is preparing some kind of action. If that were true, and this was actually followed by actions, and actions that could put pressure on states, then that would probably be a violation of sovereignty. As an example, this speech sets out the example of 20 social organisations in the Czech Republic, with the help of the US State Department and the Embassy, to exert pressure on the government there. I think that, overall, this is unacceptable, and it is not good for things to go in this direction, and I think that this could be some kind of mistake. I don't think the politics of the United States of America is going in that direction. So I ask, and we ask, whether it is necessary for the Hungarian Government or the Hungarian State to act in order to defend its sovereignty in the European Union and whether it is necessary for the European Union to act itself in order to violate the sovereignty of its own Member States and to prevent its violation, because if there is a risk of that, it is a very serious problem, since these claims do not only concern Hungary, but also several EU Member States. That is why we would like to ask this question, because I think that this is very serious and it is necessary that we get an answer on this issue as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Tuzson Bence. Minister Péter Szijjártó will answer on behalf of the government.
u2014-12-16-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my answer, I would like to state some facts. We have said these facts many times, but given the empathy of this issue, I do not think that these facts can be repeated enough. [[9.50]] Firstly, the United States is one of Hungary's main allies, so Hungary's primary interest in our bilateral relations with the United States is that cooperation should be smooth. I can also tell my fellow Member that we can basically divide bilateral relations between Hungary and America into three areas, and of these three areas [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Our cooperation in two areas is impeccable. This is the case in the area of economic, investment and trade cooperation. The total investment of US companies in Hungary was over $9 billion; US companies gave more than 80,000 Hungarians jobs; Hungary's exports to the United States increased by 30 percent in the first nine months of this year; and nine US companies are now a strategic partner of Hungary and the Hungarian government. With regard to defence cooperation, Hungary's efforts and contribution to international efforts are clearly recognised, whether in terms of our engagement with Afghanistan or with the Islamic State, or in the case of our contribution to the contingency plan within NATO, or in the case of Baltic airspace protection. The Member is right in that we are faced with several open issues in the third area of cooperation in the field of political cooperation. However, I would also like to state that the conclusion of these open issues is in Hungary's very important interest. However, in order to close these open questions, calm and calm are needed, because only calm and calm can guarantee the basic conditions for meaningful and constructive dialogue. Of course, in order to close these open questions, it is not enough that we want these open questions to be closed not only by us, but also by the United States, and in that case we will be able to be effective. And, of course, statements which accuse Hungarian citizens, or, where appropriate, Hungarian government officials, will not help to create the conditions for calm conditions and calm dialogue, without the alleged evidence on which the accusations are based being made public. Honourable Congressman, Action against corruption is one of the most important objectives of the Hungarian government, the Prime Minister announced zero tolerance for a reason, and the government decided not by accident to repeal some public procurement rules and not by accident to create a new public procurement law in accordance with European legislation and regulations. As regards the speech by Secretary of State Sarah Sewall, honourable Member, because of the parts concerning Hungary and the Central European countries, yesterday we consulted the temporary US agent in Budapest at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Secretary of State, who consulted the representative, said that we would consider it a concern for our sovereignty if a country wanted to implement an action plan in Hungary without consulting us or agreeing with us. And we also said that it would not be right for a country to give support - whether financial or moral - to NGOs to put pressure on the democratically elected government of another country in any matter. Honourable Congressman, As the Secretary of State talks about two dozen countries in Central and Eastern Europe and on an exclusion basis some EU countries have to be among these countries, László Szabó, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs yesterday, raised this issue at the Foreign Affairs Council meeting in Brussels, because the anti-corruption action of EU countries is primarily a European matter and the European Union has the right procedures and the right framework in this respect. Honourable Congressman, In conclusion, let me tell you that it is in Hungary's interest to build and maintain the best possible relations with all its partners, especially all its allies, and to have the most effective cooperation possible. However, to all of this, we believe that the best, safest basis is to stand on the ground of mutual respect. Therefore, Hungary gives respect to all its partners in bilateral relations, but we also expect Hungary to receive this respect, we expect all our partners to respect Hungary's sovereignty and to respect the Hungarian people's clear will for the future of Hungary in three elections this year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-22	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Lukács László György, Jobbik; Sallai R. Benedek, LMP; Ikotity István, LMP; Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP; Kiss László, MSZP; Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, MSZP; Demeter Márta, MSZP; Heringes Anita, MSZP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik; Novák Előd, Jobbik; Magyar Zoltán, Jobbik; Nyitrai Zsolt, Fidesz; Pócs János, Fidesz and Varga László, MSZP. Dear Parliament, It follows that the agenda for the extraordinary meeting will be set. In the light of the proposals listed in the Government's proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting, I proposed the agenda of the meeting in my chair. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament decided that the 2012 XXXVI on the National Assembly T/2337 initiating the amendment of Act T/2337. The final vote of the bill will take place at today's sitting, with a derogation from house rules. On the basis of this decision, this decision is also part of my agenda. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group has proposed that this final vote should not take place at this meeting. [[A round of applause from the independents behind Jobbik.]] We will first decide on this and on the motion for further amendments to the agenda proposal, and then we will decide on my recommendation on the agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament [[Zoltán Lukács to independents behind Jobbik: Has Feri come to work yet? I haven't seen him this year!]] Agree to the Fidesz initiative, which aims to ensure that T/2337. The final vote on bill No 1 should not be on the agenda for today's sitting. Anyone who agrees with this proposal, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, Yesterday, T/2373 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the regulation of public funds. We have decided to discuss this in an exceptional procedure. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the consolidated debate and decision be held as the first item on the agenda following its adoption. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at 11.30 a.m. at the earliest today. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a further part of the agenda proposal put forward by the President. I ask you if you will accept the agenda for today's meeting. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by negotiating a proposal in an exceptional procedure. On the basis of our previous decisions, it is now up to us to discuss and decide on an exceptional procedure for the bill amending individual laws in the context of the regulation of public funds. The submission was made in T/2373. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2373/8. by serial number and summary report by T/2373/9. by serial number. The debate will be the first to take place in a 15-minute time frame for the rapporteur of the bill. I give the floor to State Secretary Gábor Orbán.
u2014-12-16-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] T/2373 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to the regulation of public funds The submission of bill No.3 complied with all the provisions of the house rules. [[10.00]] In the context of the previous amendment of the Sports Act on sports betting, the bill also amends the provisions of the Gambling Act on gaming taxation. On the basis of this amendment, the gaming organizer may reduce the combined gaming tax of lottery games, bets and online gambling with the monthly schedule of contracts for the right to use sports events online or in traditional sports betting. On the basis of the amendment, the State organizer can fully enforce in practice the remuneration for online and traditional sports betting contracts for sports associations against the toy tax it pays. Another objective of the bill is to clarify certain detailed rules of the so-called electronic road traffic control system - or EKÁER - and to facilitate implementation. It ensures that the EKAER system operates more effectively, not only by failing to notify, but also by fulfilling it with incorrect, incomplete and false data, it is subject to the same penalty. The amendment also introduces new exemption rules from the notification requirement. No notification shall be made of the carriage of goods by road in the context of a vehicle subject to toll, so-called collector's transport, provided that the quantity or value of the product concerned does not exceed the limit laid down by law. Certain data may be modified to meet the needs of transport and transport until arrival and your registration number may also be provided after issuing the EKÁER number. In addition, the risk margin [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Detailed rules for determining the extent to which the law applies are added in order to ensure uniform application of the law. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to sit down or to come out into the corridor. [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, take a seat or step out into the corridor. I will wait, fellow Members, for you to come out into the hallway or take your seats. [[It's a short break. Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time to present the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-12-16-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/2373 at its meeting yesterday. It submitted a bill amending individual laws in the context of the regulation of public funds and presented a draft amendment and a summary amendment by 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against, with no abstentions. The Legislative Committee did not support any of the individual amendments, partly for reasons of substance and partly because of the lack of compliance with house rules. The summarised amendment is therefore included in two amendments made by the Legislative Committee. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the change that was made in Law I of 2004 on Sport 22. It brings new paragraph 3a of Article 3a into line with the Basic Law. According to a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee, the Data Protection Authority considers that the part of the standard submitted which takes out the activities of sports associations in its entirety on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] bring it into line with the Basic Law. According to a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee, the Data Protection Authority considers that the part of the standard text submitted which takes out the activities of sports associations in full on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information (Continuous noise). - The president's ringing. ) declared it unconstitutional. On the other hand, the Legislative Committee's proposal makes an exception only in respect of subsidies not deriving from the general government's sub-schemes that public interest data requests may be made with aggregated data content. It is important to stress that in this case it is not about public money, and it only makes concessions for the smooth functioning of the proposal, the associations, because of the reduction of information and administrative burdens. According to the informal opinion of the National Data Protection and Information Office, in this form the proposal fulfils all constitutional criteria. The Legislative Committee's amendment also serves to ensure consistency with the Law on Economic Stability. As the Secretary of State said, in relation to the EKÁER system, the standard text states that only from 1 February 2015 can the obligation to notify be sanctioned by incorrect, incorrect or incomplete data content, which is obviously a concession in connection with the introduction of the law. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal on behalf of the Committee. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-26	Thank you, Congressman Vecsey. To present the minority opinion, I ask Attila Harangozó Tamás. He's got a seven-minute window.
u2014-12-16-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It says a great deal about you and this law, that the government itself wanted to explain the bill that was submitted with the intention of removing hundreds of billions of dollars per year in its expozee for about two minutes and forty seconds. Obviously, it's very difficult to explain the unsuitable. Let us talk quickly about the circumstances of the submission: this law was submitted to the Parliament yesterday by Minister Mihály Varga and his ministry, and yesterday we were confronted on the House Committee that this was discussed in an exceptional procedure in one day, and the Parliament intends to vote the next day. The bill has been submitted under a code name to amend individual laws in relation to the regulation of public funds. The vast majority of the legislation contains rules relating to the carriage of goods by road arising from EU or other obligations - the general justification for this too - while it turned out that the substance of the bill itself is that you want to start a new financial pump, namely between gambling and sports associations on one side, and on the other hand in this regulation, that you - and this was the original text - have fully sought to remove these sports associations from the scope of the law that allows everyone to know about the management and operation of these associations as public interest data. Ladies and gentlemen, Several amendments were submitted to the TAB. First, I'd like to talk about our own proposal. Obviously, there was nothing else we could do after only three hours of Members' time to submit an amendment to abolish all the filth that was put into this law, namely to change the tax base of gambling, so that companies could write down from their taxes all the money they paid to sports associations in the interest of property rights, and that this information should not be made public in the future. There's another part of the law that I think deserves to be spoken for. You have also entered into this law with a salad character that, in the next period, the NAV may not only invade entrepreneurs in the event of a default penalty - I would like to note that a default penalty may be a simple failure to provide information. You do not have to cheat or not pay taxes to do this, because of a simple disclosure, you will allow the NAV in the future - in whom the whole nation obviously trusts anyway - to take money from Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, once again, not only from their accounts, but also to go to the site and take away their supplies, seize their production equipment, seize the truck, goods, trucks or machines that produce products. [[10.10]] And the most disgusting thing about this, my fellow Members, is that it is in the text of the law that all this is done regardless of the appeal. So the NAV goes out, takes everything, the poor contractor appeals, say, in a year and a half, the court says that he's right, and by then his company, his family, his employees will be on the street, they'll be ruined. It's a fantastic proposal, and we congratulate you on bringing this in here in one day, suddenly before Christmas. But our honourable fellow Members did not stop here, because yesterday Erik Bánki thought that along this bill he would suddenly submit an amendment proposal, where he wanted to put some 14 buildings in the capital to free use for various sports associations. He did this, in a manner worthy of Fidesz, by including only the location number of the real estate in the bill, so the committee and the representatives were not even in a position to judge at all what real estate he intended to transfer. After the representatives of the MSZP drew attention to the fact that this part was not open in this basic bill, so this proposal was submitted completely illegal and illegal, and the majority of the committee otherwise saw this and did not vote in favour of this proposal. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have brought in a final text that you are proud of, and you have also said at the committee meeting that the President of the TAB has quickly been consulted during the day with the President of the National Data Protection Authority, who has made it clear that this bill, as it is, is only against fundamental law, only international treaties, and that it is only against the law of the European Union. In particular, we congratulate Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga for taking such a proposal under his name, and we congratulate the Ministry of National Economy on submitting such a proposal to Parliament. The final text you have accepted is no better than the one originally submitted. After all, it is about the fact that non-state and non-government subsidies are still required to be made public only by providing aggregated data content. What are these amounts, fellow Members? For example, the amount of gambling aid that could be up to HUF 37.9 billion per year, according to your law at the moment, according to the Finance Act. But such is more than HUF 50 billion in Tao support, and such is the sports support of state companies, which, to date, cannot be precisely defined by anyone, which is also obviously tens of billions forints, which these sports organisations will no longer inform the public in detail about what and how they used it in the future. Their argument is false and ridiculous that these organisations need administrative burden reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, If the MLSZ receives tens of billions of forints, then make sure that it is able and able to accurately explain what and how it spent it on its website! Let's not even joke about why we need the bill. At the same time, we would like to draw attention very strongly, and this was also the request of opposition representatives to withdraw this bill as it is. Believe me, if this comes into force and it starts to work, there will be huge scandals again. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-16-28	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. Dear Parliament, Now the political groups can express their views over a period of 30 to 30 minutes, and the independent representatives have a total of 8 minutes. [[Several members of the MSZP fraction leave the meeting room.]] First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first - I think the MSZP Group is not curious - to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP.
u2014-12-16-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we were indeed surprised by this motion yesterday morning, but this is not the first time, because in this cycle, too, there have been many times that very heavy legislation, the legislation governing many areas of life, is being introduced at the last minute, and very quickly they are being forced to put on the agenda, and then accepted a day later. Obviously, this procedure is unacceptable, and I think it is unworthy of Parliament. This draft legislation also regulates several areas of life. We could also say that even amendments to the tax law, amendments to certain tax laws or amendments to the legislation on the National Tax and Customs Office could not be made; I note that yesterday we adopted the budget, before yesterday we adopted the tax legislation, the new tax laws, so perhaps it is interesting that after a budget adopted for one day, the rules that fundamentally affect tax revenue are changed and how correct it is to show the image of a sustainable budget. Tamás Harangozó also referred to this, as they calculate tax revenues of some HUF 36,9 billion for gaming tax, and in this legislation they regulate how to write down certain costs for certain companies. In other words, revenue will be a problem again. In the very short expozee, Minister of State pointed out that there were clarifications about the EKÁER system, of course a large part of the legislation is about this, and obviously there is also a content in the context of the NAV, which, I think, is unworthy of Hungarian small and large enterprises before Christmas, that they just thought that the Parliament should make provision for legislation on the fact that the instrument of activity, in the case of the production of products, can be seized by the NAV up to the fine imposed, and that there is no remedy for the entrepreneur in question. Obviously, if, even years later, it is found that he was right, and not NAV, then, in fact, he could lose these assets, lose the goods, or, where appropriate, suffer such damage that he would have to cease his activities. This point of this proposal is unacceptable, and it is completely unworthy. And the whole proposal, if we appreciate it, is near to the incomprehensible, why the law on the organisation of gambling is being amended here, and why, by the way, it is suddenly necessary to amend the law on sport again. It is very difficult to evaluate these parts of the law in such a way that we do not go back a bit to the time, because the previous cycle was such that the National Assembly changed the legal background on sport quite often. It was clear that you put sports policy at the forefront of your policy, some of which wouldn't be a problem. This was also the case when the corporate tax legislation was amended, a tax relief scheme was introduced for five visual team sports. We did not have a problem with this in the first place, as governments before 2010 have introduced such an opportunity, for example, in the field of theatre and cinema, some rural theatres, I can say, still benefit from such opportunities, since it would otherwise be very difficult to maintain culture and cultural life at an appropriate level in certain areas. We expected this proposal when you brought it in, and the Parliament accepted it, which was the original purpose of the proposal, and you said that this option would support supply sports, leisure sports and, where appropriate, the replacement of five visual team sports. Compared to this, what do we see in practice? Not only did this proposal stimulate the everyday sports life of small rural teams, but, for example, after the entry into force of the first tax year, the club that developed the biggest corporate tax discount was obviously the club in Felcsút, and so it was possible to build a football stadium with such opportunities. It was about HUF 3.5 billion, which was used as a Tao discount in the first year by the football club on the Highlands, and not by building a supply center, with only such function, whatever you say. [[10.20]] There is a first-class football team playing here with relatively few sports professional reasons for this development, and let's say tens of thousands of people don't go to football matches here, which is an amazing reason for this development. Obviously, their sports subsidies were most of the same. It was not the sports industry that determined where a stadium was built, but - many people said it in this country, but let me stress it once more, and by the way, no more Fidesz leaders have denied it, but they have been openly admitted, not only for sports purposes, but also - where appropriate, some other aspects have defined these decisions. Almost without exception, where improvements have been made and have already been completed, there are Fidesz leaders, decisive Fidesz politicians around the team, or, where appropriate, chair such clubs. I could say Gábor Kubatov in connection with the Stadium of Ferencváros, but under the chairmanship of Tamás Deutsch, the MTK also won such improvements, while in the case of rural clubs they appear very moderately in places where many viewers would otherwise justify these developments. I could say, for example, Diósgyőr in this regard, because there has not been a single cut, and we can see that according to the new legal backgrounds, the stadium in Debrecen is not very well filled with life, because it was very important to make the fan card mandatory, to introduce it, just against everyday rationality. These big visual investments have recovered, and it is a question of who will fill them with life. Well, it's been a little long, what I've just said in the introduction, and I know you're obviously not interested in that either. This legislation has worked, many of you will not think this through deeply, but you will press the yes button, but I suggest that you consider it. A year and a half ago, the Parliament regulated it, creating a regulated legal background for remote gambling. We also said that there is no way to expect serious budget revenue from this, and otherwise, regulation is unviable. At the same time, in the Budget Act, you have regulated that potential revenues from remote gambling will be spent on re-sports, and the resulting toy tax revenues will be spent on the budget. This is where it relates to my uplifting thoughts. So there was a system of corporate tax relief, from which the supply of supplies did not really get rich, or only to a minimal extent, after which they had a next decision that the tax revenue from remote gambling should be spent on supplies. Then there was no such revenue, then in June this unviable regulation was changed, but even very quickly it was modified that, if there were any revenue, it would not be possible for the children to have these revenues, so that they would not be able to benefit from the leisure sport, but rather, rather, rather, the Hungarian Football Association could have these revenues. This has been modified. If, then, in June, in this parliamentary debate, some of my fellow Members had not spotted this, then this would not have actually generated a debate in public life, nor would it have been said. This is an actual reconstruction of this, and I have to say that I think that is what this story is really about, because all the other amendments to the EKÁER system, in relation to NAV, could have come in earlier in the period of budget planning, when tax legislation was adopted by the Parliament. This legislation is about the fact that newer sports policy measures of this type have been hidden in a salad law, hidden from the fact that companies that pay the consideration of property rights to individual professional associations, for example, pay serious amounts in order to place bets on, say, the matches of the given championship, these companies will be able to write down the consideration of this asset-value right from their gaming tax, i.e. this specific amount. The problem with this is that the SAO can check the tax revenues and their use - if the Hungarian Football Association uses them - if the SAO does so, each Member of Parliament can review them if they turn to the right place with a data request. I think that if this was serious, if it was also intended for the purpose of football, this could have been a verifiable, transparent story. However, let's assume that, let's say, a certain amount that a company would have paid to a gaming tax in this way gives to a professional association - obviously, they know the Hungarian sports life - which means predominantly Hungarian football and means MLSZ. In this way, a professional association can receive additional revenue, and here is the following amendment, which is amended in the case of the Sport Act, and this has been said, otherwise more critically with regard to a pro-government representative, that the activities of the professional association will be removed from the scope of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information, in Hungarian: data requirements of general interest cannot be used in such cases. In a closed, secretly managed circle, there is, in fact, a narrow legislative framework only to make public what a professional association will do with these resources. They're trying to re-spend tens of billions of dollars in the state, serving fully competitive sports and professional sports, excluding the public. It's been going on for years, by the way, it's about the third act of this story. This was obviously unacceptable at a level where, even on the afternoon of yesterday, a Fidesz Member of the Data Protection Authority asked for his position, and it was even found that the original text, the anti-international treaty and the European Union's legislation were against fundamental law. So I think that if it doesn't comply with these three stories, if a Data Protection Authority says it in such a short time, then I am very sorry that such legislation will be tabled quickly on the morning of the last Monday of the parliamentary week, tens of billions are opaque, allowing it to be pumped out of the budget, and, in any case, in the context of this resolution, even you have to admit that this is not a matter of any law. Obviously, that amendment must be made, that is the minimum, but in our view it is not necessary to negotiate the relevant parts. We tabled an amendment to prevent the Parliament from deciding on these issues, not to discuss these issues, but to accept the most precise and formal amendments to this salad law that may be really necessary, but not to be a partner in pumping out tens of billions of public funds. Thank you for listening. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-30	Thank you, Congressman Varga. The next scheduled speaker is Mr János Volner, Member Jobbik.
u2014-12-16-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have before us a bill that the government coalition has quickly submitted, with great urgency, and has tried to fool us at Parliament. We have repeatedly drawn attention to the technical shortcomings of the electronic road traffic control system, which is now being introduced, and what could be done about it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a bill covering several sectors of the economy has not been discussed in this regard, that professional organisations have not been consulted on what they want to plan, so there is simply very little chance that this will not only go well, but that the government will be able to close it without any trouble. I would like to say to you that next year's introduction of the EKAER, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be a mess, and the various professional associations have also told you what their objections are. Wouldn't it have been more appropriate to consult with these organisations before submitting the bill? For example, the opinion of the Association of Logistical Services Centres in Hungary and the professional position of the Logistics Consultation Forum have highlighted very briefly what their problem is with the EKÁER that we are about to introduce. [[10.30]] Professional organisations have proposed that the government postpone the entry into force of this bill for at least two months, simply because companies that work in these areas need to reprogram their own IT systems, renegotiate economic contracts between companies concerning the transport and freight sector. International treaties and even international legislation are affected by the current bill, it is obvious that it will take at least two months for a company to be able to prepare professionally to carry out these tasks at the IT level. We also find it problematic that for Hungarian businesses, these laws, which this bill also requires to amend, represent a significant increase in burden, increase administrative burdens, and transform the operation of companies in order to meet the expectations of legislative power. Moreover, this should be done within a very short period of time. I also recommend that Hungary plays a central role here in Eastern-Central Europe, which would enable this country to benefit from the otherwise excellent geographical features of the logistics sector, and the logistics sector can generate significant economic added value for Hungary. However, this bill does exactly the opposite. It puts Hungarian businesses at a significant competitive disadvantage compared to companies operating in neighbouring countries, as the cost increase will, of course, also appear in the prices of the logistics sector, and these prices will obviously be less competitive. We have also drawn attention to the fact that this bill, which has just been tabled, is not a small part of the barrier to the spread of intermodal transport in Hungary. Here I draw the attention of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, and I regret that the only Secretary of State of the Government is represented in such an important debate, that if we look at what is happening to the Hungarian logistics sector, we can see that we have 74 square kilometers of multiple terminals in Zahony. And in comparison, ladies and gentlemen, products of Chinese origin now enter the European Union through a Slovak crossing point. The Slovaks thought ahead and developed for themselves a terminal with much better efficiency than the Zahonyi. And to the Hungarian terminal, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth seeing its fate. I would not smile if I were my fellow government members, although I know that they are not smiling about this, but unfortunately, the subject is very sad, because about 1,500 jobs are affected by this issue in the Zahony region. So many people are threatened by the current state of work. Because the Chinese-origin goods, I repeat, do not enter Zahony now, because the Zahony transhipment is untimely, but they are going to Slovakia. With this bill, we will continue to preserve the lag in the Hungarian logistics sector, because if we make Hungary's operation expensive because we increase the effective tax rate of companies with these burdens, which the government is about to cement, then we will obviously contribute to Hungary's breaking down behind Slovakia, and the difference between the two countries can continue to grow. It is also important to say that when firms have to switch to these new standards and there is such a very short period of time, it is also important to consider that farmers, for example, have completely different economic characteristics. It is worth considering how they can comply with the EKAER standards. At the moment when various agricultural crops are harvested in the field, the entrepreneur should be aware of the value, composition, classification, and many things. Quite simply, these are not properly dealt with by this bill and are not adequately answered. So, in such a hurry, to adopt legislation, and one that concerns more economic sectors, I say again, I am sure I cannot. I also think it is important to explain to this bill what is constantly causing these hasty legislative practices. It is born, ladies and gentlemen, that the Hungarian economy is significantly overtaxed. We're way past the optimal level of taxation. This results in a huge tax difference between Hungary and neighbouring countries in Hungary. We are thinking here of what the government intends to address with this EKAER proposal, the elimination of VAT fraud. There is a significant VAT difference between Hungary and Slovakia, in fact on the government side you provide a significant incentive for the black economy to live and flourish because there will always be, the greater the tax gap, the more people who are trying to take advantage of this huge tax differential between two countries for tax evasion. And the government, of course, gives these companies virtually the opportunity to do so, and gives them an incentive to do so. So this hasty legislative practice in itself is due to the fact that the government is constantly giving incentives to the black economy with this significant tax differential, and then cludges to run after events, because it is trying to capture the public money that escapes from the budget in this way by again imposing new administrative burdens on companies, trying to reduce the black economy by such administrative means. Obviously, the solution is not to continue to fight, to increase the operation of the Hungarian economic sectors with new legislation, and to put additional administrative burdens on them, but to harmonise the Hungarian tax system with that of the neighbouring countries. There will not be such a radical difference in the tax burden between the neighbouring countries and Hungary, and much less problems need to be addressed. The bill is 1. §2 of the Act deals with the organisation of gambling. We have touched on this topic several times here in Parliament. What is happening in this area, isn't it? The government says that the spread of gambling in Hungary must be curbed. Every sensual person says that throwing the family's livelihoods into a one-armed robber is something to do with this situation. I'm sure we can agree on that. But what's really happening? Friendly companies, including Andy Vajna's company, are offered different options for remote gambling. We also pointed out in yesterday's agenda that an online card room and online casino can now only be operated through Andy Vajna through Gábor Szima's company in Hungary. In practice, the government constantly changes the various marginal conditions of taxation by benefiting the economic interest groups and large business operators that are close to it with this practice. It's nothing else, that's what it's all about right now. Without any social consultation, without any professional dialogue, some laws written by economic lobbys will be introduced here to the Parliament. They beat them through the National Assembly by force. My excellent policy colleague György Szilágyi will present the parts of the bill on sport later on, so I will not discuss this at the moment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-32	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP.
u2014-12-16-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I really don't know what you think of the day anymore. Yesterday we received this scandalous bill in the House Committee, and we are in the Chamber in practically 24 hours and we are talking about things that can completely destroy a sector - because that's what this is about. There are carriers, they're being screwed, and Andy Vajna can be happy, get a beautiful Christmas present under the tree, and they could cover billions through the sports trades. No one would know how these money travels. The circumstances of the submission are obviously scandalous. I don't even think that we can, say, spend the whole night and all day dealing with this law - but how do you even think that they put a bill of this magnitude on the table that they don't agree on, no impact studies, no questions asked? I'm gonna quote, "Maybe we shouldn't have found out from the press what the government is up to, what's missing again. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So that's exactly what this is about. You always have the money for national consultation, but if you have a proposal at this level, you do not agree on it. The fact is quite simply that this is causing serious damage, not to the opposition, to the national economy, to the country which you are supposed to lead. [[10.40]] I think the least they can do is put such a proposal on the table, to discuss it with people whose lives it will affect every day. I would add that if you wish to cover up by reducing VAT fraud, then in this regard, I believe that you have been examining our four NAV committee proposals for weeks. We still don't know what their position is about him. I think that if you have that much time to look at the NAV investigation committee, you should honor the carriers so much that you can agree with them on the law that will turn their lives upside down. I would like to say that we can support all the laws that serve to whiten the economy, but this proposal, which has been placed on the table, is bleeding from more wounds than there are chapters or as many paragraphs. I told you that we were deeply outraged that there was no opportunity for meaningful consultation with anyone. If you do not know what these organisations think, let me tell you, because I have looked through your statements on this bill and found the following. In an unimagined, untested system, a powerful administration. There are serious disruptions in supply systems due to the insufferable administration. It puts farmers in an impossible position. I am now looking at what these organizations have made public, which, I stress, you should have met. It will cause damage to the national economy, because the country is left by large companies operating in the system of just in time, together with their suppliers being insufferable. Is he being watched? It's about the suppliers. While you are constantly focusing on the automotive industry on one side, such a step will also cause serious damage there. Moreover, it is a recurring opinion that small and medium-sized enterprises will have the biggest problem. Let me give you another quote. The draft does not take into account, inter alia, the supply of the own goods produced by its own vehicle to its own premises, the characteristics of the marketing of the fruit and vegetable sector, the supply to the wholesale market, the sale through producer organisations, the small-value sales of small-scale producers and primary producers, the value and quantity extremes between certain goods, inter-sectors, such as cereals or packaged vegetable seed. The concept of first taxable supply of goods and end-user is not clarified. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think it would've been appropriate if they knew what they were up to, had them negotiate with the people whose lives are affected. Don't take this the wrong way, but the fact that you're setting the deadline until February 1st and you're not punishing me is not going to help the system much. They say they promise we'll have a green number and a briefing. Shouldn't we do it the other way around? Is there an information, a green number first, and then, when you already have it, you set a deadline for users? Plus, I'd like to add that this whole bill is a salad law, and it's not a black soup, it's three. As I mentioned before, Andy Vajna gets a beautiful Christmas present, but there are also other pieces about sports associations. Look, the fact that you guys are going to do this, in the original version, and you're taking this complete regulation out of the scope of the info law clearly means that you want to hide where the billions are going. Otherwise, this is not only unacceptable from a citizen's point of view or even from a representative's point of view, but contrary to the Basic Law. The info law is precisely to implement transparency in the management of public funds and national assets, as described in the basic legislation. How do you think they're gonna take you and take you out? That would be unconstitutional in itself. By the way, someone must have told you that this is not going to work because the Members can't be so tired that they won't notice at the last minute. I'm talking about the TAB amendment, but it didn't make any real difference. You may not be able to say it's unconstitutional because they've managed so much to manipulate the system, but there will be sponsorship and tao, which will also be completely opaque if this goes through. Transparency is therefore in any event impaired, weakened, and in the context of the subsidies that the companies receive from these cooperatives because of the corporate tax exemption, the result would be that only the aggregate data content would be made public. This continues to be, say, 40-50 billion forints, which the government so to speak renounces. This would be inaccessible, and these funds, which are public funds, would, in practice, continue to be treated inaccessiblely. Let me explain, I just don't understand how you think the Tao is saying it's not public money. Orbán came here, boasting that he believed that the stadium in Felcsút was built on private donations because they did not use state money. This is a very serious mistake of the Prime Minister, because the Tao, as such, is a public money, a state aid. When this was introduced, the Commission was also authorised in this way. If the Prime Minister doesn't know that, tell him to be nice, because that's the way it is. Because if it weren't for that, and let's think logically, then this money would go into the budget in the form of a tax. But because it is, it can be used in this way. But from here on out, it's just as much state aid as, let's say, a 1 percent donation to personal income tax. In fact, it is a matter of detail that the money flows through the IRS to the beneficiary, or it has to be certified, the system itself is based on the fact that it is public money. That's how you authorized this whole system. If you carry this through, which you have the opportunity to do, because there are many, then the transparency of billion-dollar tao money will be reduced. I'm telling you, he's been so screwed with this amendment that it shouldn't be unconstitutional, but they continue to hide from the eyes of taxpayers the billions that they would have the right to see. Besides, they've been trying to do this before. It's very interesting that you seem very determined to take these things over. Because it was exactly Erik Bánki who came up with a very similar proposal less than two weeks ago. This was a proposal to hide the management of sports associations. It can be found on the parliamentary website, which was presented in the salad setting out the budget. But he couldn't get into the summary amendment, so someone in your system ruled out that it's a little out of line. So Erik Bánki came to terms with this proposal. By the way, we also said about the budget salad that it was not famous for transparency rules either. I myself have criticised the fact that certain provisions have been used to eliminate the conflict of interest requirements of state and EU aid and to restrict the public. They backed off there, but it was only half a success, because even if family members cannot be sabotaged, the organisations close to the party will still have public funds. And let's not forget about the Seszta proposal, it seems that you now had weeks like this, that you wanted to reduce transparency at all costs, which would have made the investment in Paks completely opaque. I looked at the agenda for next year, it moved to February, so for some reason they didn't want to do it before Christmas, and then in February, I guess we'll continue with it. So, the question is, who's lobbying so much so that we can't see transparency in the country? [[Deterioration from KDNP benches.]] I would add that the Transparent has dealt with corporate tax advantages to support visual team sports in several articles. Don't laugh, it's public money. Till autumn 2012, 7.9 billion were released from the Tao. Where did 6 billion of these 7.9 billion go? To the MLS! The other 1.9 billion were shared by basketball, water polo, hockey and the Hungarian Olympic Committee. And within the football teams, who was the absolute winner? Of course, the Supper received 2.8 billion forints. Compared to that, Debrecen received half a billion, Újpest 334 million. These are very serious money, gentlemen and ladies. [[Dr. István Simicskó's intervention.]] Don't yell, fellow Member, press the button, please, you have the opportunity. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And give me your opinion. Warm yourselves to calm down, be kind. I think it's very unfair that a few days before Christmas, and at any time, they put a salad law like this on the table. But let's continue with Andy Vajna, ladies and gentlemen. Andy Vajna and his offshore activity have been pricking the opposition's eyes for quite some time now. My fellow Member, András Schiffer, has also repeatedly pointed out that there is no need to migrate taxpayers' money into offshore money. But for some reason, you are very protective of Andy Vajna, and now you are voting for another gift that will increase his revenue, but it will result in a reduction in tax revenues for the country. Actually, I'm not surprised because I've seen that when we talk about tobacco, sooner or later gambling comes out. You remember, one of their first measures after the election was handing out casino rights. Then the Internet gambling market was also entrusted to the related businesses by the government, your friends. Now, the tax on gambling operators would be reduced with a noble simplicity. Just to take a little look at the grand donations that come and go there, let's look back a little bit about what happened here. [[10.50]] It's about the Las Vegas casino. In 2012 the turnover of this company increased from HUF 3.8 billion a year to HUF 6.2 billion. Guess how much money you're paying into the budget as a corporate tax: just over 1 000 of this money, this revenue. At the same time, due to changes in tax legislation favourable to him, the operating profit increased from HUF 683 million to HUF 1.97 billion in the previous year. I remember the time when the Ministry of National Economy tried to calculate how much revenue the new gambling casinos would bring to the budget. You have calculated in the Ministry of National Economy nearly HUF 4 billion per year as concession fee revenue and HUF 1 billion in general traffic tax revenue. But when the NGM calculated so much, it did not expect that the two thirds would come, and it would introduce rules that would damage practically the entire budget, while the Andy Vajnas would be finely petrified. It was introduced that the concession fee as such could be deducted from the toy tax and that the tax was also exempted from gambling operators. Technically, this meant that 1 billion forints were donated to these companies at the time. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That is not true!]] For example, it wouldn't hurt me to have one billion forints from one of your private pockets, do it, but don't share with the taxpayers' money, be kind. And by the way, speaking of Andy Vajna, you can also read it on Transparent: it has a rather extensive network of offshore companies. We don't really know exactly whose pocket these little gifts are going into, for example, for a billion forints, and we don't even know that the current tax relief that they're going to vote for in a few hours - because I don't have to say that it's a law that they're going to pass in 24 hours - we don't know whose pocket it's going to be. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: There will be something to do next year!]] Let's look at the numbers a little longer. Let's take care of Andrew Vajna a little while longer, if he gets such a nice Christmas present: Hungarian companies related to him have reached HUF 33.3 billion in revenues in 4 years. Companies received HUF 3.5 billion as dividends - who are they? The offshore owners. This is Las Vegas Casino, we've been looking at your report. In 2013 he migrated abroad at HUF 1.7 billion in dividends - we don't know where - and how much the Hungarian budget saw, how much did Hungarian taxpayers receive from corporate tax? Barely 87 million forints. Gentlemen and ladies, I think you can steal, just not for long. I think it's really the top of everything that you guys are getting up, I don't know what day you're gonna write down a salad law like this, and the carriers are gonna spot me so hard, I don't know what's gonna happen to that sector if they move this. We're gonna do everything we can to get them to talk to the people they're gonna rule over. Andy Vajna still has a face, there's skin on their faces to give a next gift, a next package for Christmas; and they're gonna start covering up the public money from the taxpayers' eyes in the sports associations. What do you think? ! And all of this will be passed in 24 hours by the Hungarian legislature. Gentlemen and ladies, Either take back this law, or I think it's the chimword of insolence they're doing.
u2014-12-16-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-12-16-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, we have a very strange bill ahead of us. His strangeness in the beginning - as my fellow Members have said here - the way, the time, the speed of the submission - is accepted at the last sitting and the like - already predicts that something is wrong here. More has been revealed, especially at the Legislative Committee's meeting, that it is indeed not right. Starting with the fact that we have said that the main thing we find strange in the light of sport in the law is that you want to remove the professional associations from the scope of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. That's what they wanted to do, so that's what they submitted. Then it was fortunate that, at this speed before the TAB meeting, as President Gergely Gulyás said, Attila Péterfalvi was still there to consult with the Data Protection Authority; because if he hadn't been there, they would have insisted. There was then an amendment proposal, then a third amendment proposal, which, at the moment, would be adopted as CXII of 2011 on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information in connection with the management of the professional association. requests for access to public data in the public interest or in the public interest pursuant to law may be met by the provision of aggregated data content in respect of non-State non-government grants. That is also an interesting wording, because yesterday we also asked a few things about what it was about, so that everyone who might be watching this broadcast now, or later try to find out on Parliament's website what it is about. It is about the fact that there is a professional sports association whose revenues are made up of several sources. They have state resources, they have their own incomes, maybe, as has been said, any company can support them and farm from it in a year. From then on, yesterday, Secretary of State Orbán said that revenues that are their own revenues should be business secrets. It was said to treat business as a secret. The biggest problem is that when we turn to a professional sports association with a demand for data in the public interest and ask what it was made of, tell us already, you can say that it is not public money, and we do not answer that. And then it's always what we ask, what we're gonna be curious about, and then it's just that they didn't do it out of public money, and they don't have to answer it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But I'll give you another example. We need aggregated data for this business secret. Let's say - I'm sure it won't be like that just by accident - that the Gambling Company. 2 billion forints, let's say, to the Hungarian Football Association. I'll ask you, say me, with a demand for data in the public interest, what you've spent these 2 billion forints on. And then I can also get the answer to maintaining sports fields - point. I mean, they're giving me a total of data. They won't tell us we spent so much on this field, that's what we spent on it. No! They'll say it's for the maintenance of sports grounds. So they're totally trying to make it impossible to follow these funds. Then there's another question: what is public money? I put this on yesterday at the TAB meeting. Because it's not completely clear, so everyone has a different understanding of what public money is. Because let's just take an example of the Tao. In the case of Tao discounts, certain sports associations will benefit from this. The Tao is supposed to be not a public money; I did not say - I was also strangely concerned - but your Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán. After all, Viktor Orbán has repeatedly stated that there is not a single penny of public money in the stadium in Felcsút, since it was built from Tao. According to Viktor Orbán, tao is not public money. I think so, because someone doesn't pay the Tao into the central budget, but they can refer it to one of the sports unions. I asked you yesterday at the TAB meeting whether tao is public money or not public money. Gergely Gulyás said that, of course, it is public money. Who do we believe now? Should we believe Gergely Gulyás or Viktor Orbán? Is Tao public money or not public money? Was the stadium in Felcsúti built of public money or not of public money? It would be good to know, by the way, and it would be good to know, because if you look at the movement of tao money, you can conclude that visual team sports have not received as much money in total as the academy in Felcsút and as much as you have sacrificed to the stadium in Felcsút. It would be good to know that this small stadium, or not for public money, was sacrificed in the neighbourhood of Viktor Orbán. So what we can see is that even these basic concepts can be varied, and even though you say - yesterday we were told to calm down, that the professional sports associations will operate completely transparently - we will get answers to everything. We can't calm down, because in the last five years we've encountered in the field of sport, it's been characterised by a continuous mushy activity and a fidesz rule. I see - because we have to correct it, because there are two State Secretarys present in the Chamber, and István Simicskó is sitting here with me in front of the Secretary of State Orbán - that István Simicskó is being misunderstood. Let me give you a few examples of this variation, which creates a completely clean relationship. [[11.00]] This capital had a very patina association called BSE. It's a 100-year-old association. The Metropolitan Government once said that the maintenance cost of this BSE of 140 million per year will no longer be able to bear it. From now on, the City Council has no money to support BSE. This is a very important moment for BSE. When the Metropolitan Municipality declared this, a month later, the MTK appeared by accident, who said that he wanted to merge with BSE. This was strange at the time, because MTK owed HUF 300 million at the time, and BSE owed about HUF 300 million. Why would an association with a debt of HUF 300 million want to merge with the other association, even if BSE, as we know, has very valuable areas in the capital, which are of great value? We received this answer six months later when you made up the debt of sports associations, including the 600 million MTK that you took over with BSE. I'm saying it's a variation option. But I'm gonna keep going. Because what did the capital say? Why did BSE finally have to blend into MTK? Because he said he couldn't spend 140 million forints a year on BSE. After three months, however, he was able to immediately judge several tens of millions of forints as a subsidy to Ferencváros, they had money for it, and if we look at the football team of Ferencváros, it is supported by all the companies owned by the Municipality of Budapest. If they had not supported Ferencváros but supported BSE, BSE could have easily survived. That's what I'm saying about variations, Mr. Secretary. Or I'll call your attention to one more thing, because I need to call you to see if there's a variation in sports or not. Ferencváros has a supply base in Népliget. This belonged for a long time to MNV Zrt., who managed this area. Now their trust rights have been handed over to Ferencváros. But before the official transfer of this trust to Ferencváros, the Folkliget base had a pretty serious remodeling. They've renovated the dressing rooms, the building on the right is completely destroyed, renovated, everything else that wouldn't be a problem. The only problem is, when they did this, this was the property owned by the state. When they did this, I don't know if there was a building permit, and no one had a permit to reconstruct it. When they did this, because it was state-owned, they should have put out public tenders. No tender has been launched. [[Márius Révész: What does the law have to do with this?]] And if we look - I tried to find it - how this area was renovated, we couldn't find a source anywhere behind it. Well, how was Ferencváros renovated then, which was still a state territory, and there's no resources behind it? Well, that's what I'm saying about the variation, and we never get the answers, because even if you need data, they're still trying to hide it. Let me give you another example. At the time, it took Mr. Schiffer almost a year for him to receive something so important from the MLSZ, he had to sue by court who had taken part in the decision to exclude Ferencváros from second class at the time. On such a very important issue, the Hungarian Football Federation had to sue for years to publish these names. Then, when you cement it like this, say, for the Hungarian Football Association not to disclose data of public interest, how much time will you have to wait for these data? Then I'd like to ask you one more thing. It is true that it was removed from this law, not because you wanted it, but because opposition representatives at the TAB meeting noticed that this would be illegal if you stayed in it, so they removed points 4 and 6 from the amendment. Points 4 and 6 were to read that, in order to improve sports life in the capital city and to strengthen the community-forming function of sport, the National Assembly designates the legal entities listed in Annex 1 as trustees of public or partly state-owned sports property listed in Annex 1 in the National Property Act, and the Act I of 2004 on Sport is amended in accordance with Annex 2. In Annex 2, we met yesterday at the TAB meeting that the location number of the property and the designated trustee are indicated; only a localization number, such as Budapest 27913/1, and the person who will be the trustee will be the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association. And it's listed as a lot of real estate. I asked Mr Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State, which areas we were talking about, but Mr. Secretary of State apparently had no idea about this at the TAB meeting yesterday. I told him we didn't have time to look up the location numbers, which areas these could be, I asked him to answer - he didn't know. Then I will ask the author of this amendment, Erik Bánki, who is in the Chamber now - although I know that this will not be included in the law, because it cannot be entered, but it cannot be entered because it would be illegal to put in it - at least tell me that if you have such an intention, let us think a little ahead, because I think, regardless of that, you will open this provision very quickly next year so that you can submit these things again. But let us work a little ahead, so please respond to what sports property is listed under these landmarks, and what is really the reason for the transfer of the property management rights of these sports properties, and what is their plan to do with this, whether there is any impact assessment in this regard. In conclusion, I would like to ask you to reconsider this bill. We, for our part, cannot support such a bill because of excuses for the sport section and because of what my fellow Member János Volner said. We will not be partners in constantly transforming sports life or economic life into their own image in this country, so that only their own interests are taken into account, and do not worry about what is good for this country, this people, because unfortunately, this is what we have to meet with. It seems that you have unfortunately been thrown away from reality by what you always say, and so it has been that you have won three elections in the last year. You feel that with these three elections, you can walk completely above the ground, you can completely throw yourself away from reality, you can completely ignore the interests of the people, you can completely ignore the interests of Hungary, and you will bring such legislative proposals to this House in a series. I find this outrageous, and of course, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary will not be a partner in allowing you to pass such laws here. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue with the speeches. From the Fidesz Group, it's Erik Bánki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have become accustomed to the fact that the opposition sees evil in everything, in relation to every motion that comes from the government, and whose fundamental purpose is to simplify certain procedures, make them more lifelike, you paint a devil on the wall and try to make everything look like the evil government, based on all kinds of deals made in dark back corners, as you say, tries to shape the laws that come before Parliament in your own image. Well, please, of course that's not the case in this case. I would like to talk about two points, two elements of the bill before us, the two elements that may have generated the most contributions in the last debate. I'll start with Tamás Bellozó, who we're used to throwing a rock into the lake, and then when he makes waves, he'll leave the field immediately. It hasn't changed that way. In this case, too, he said his speech, which, of course, largely lacked all the basis for reality, but he no longer wants to know what is going on in this debate at a further stage. Send a message to Congressman from here, from the benches, that sarcasm is the cheapest expression of wit. He's a jinx in everything. He's been talking about making billions of taxes disappear. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all the sports associations have been, and will continue to be, to account for all the forints they received as central budget support, and will give details of all kinds of information to all citizens who have joined the sports associations. [[11.10]] It is not that anyone here wants to snoop, anyone wants to exclude these associations from the full scope of the info law, all we want is that the civil duties of these sports professional associations should not be subject to the info law, as in the case of all other civil society organisations. After all, today the vast majority of civil society organisations operating in Hungary do not belong there. There are two areas for these sports unions. There is an administrative-sport administration area that is carried out in connection with the use of public funds from the central budget, real estate development, support for sports associations, organisation of sporting events, of course they will continue to be covered by the info law, and each penny will continue to be accounted for by these associations. But there are own revenues - marketing rights, sponsorship revenues, forints from any donor or sponsor - for which it is completely unnecessary to apply the same strict procedure and it is completely unnecessary to impose an administrative burden on professional associations that we do not otherwise do for civil society organisations. So, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, it is not the case that anyone would like to exclude billions of taxes from control, but it is a question of a reduction in the administrative burden for sports associations; once again, civil society operating areas would be treated in the same way as civil society organisations. Mr László Varga suggested that requests for data in the public interest will not be able to go to the associations afterwards. I propose to the Member that he do this in January, for example, to the Hungarian Football Association, to ask any questions about the subsidies granted under the corporate tax system, and I will personally verify that he has received the answer in due time. I'm sure this is going to happen, by the way. I wouldn't even talk about what our colleague Mr Bernadett Szél said in his speech. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It would be nice.]] Several times confirming that it is against the law to amend the sport law on this subject. The congresswoman should contact the Constitutional Court, ask for a review of the law and see what the opinion will be. In any event, it has already been said here in the debate that the amendment, which was accepted by the TAB, complies with and is fully in line with the Fundamental Law. There was another question about the amendment of the Sports Act: the right of trustee to be transferred to the Budapest Honvéd Sports Association, which was eventually withdrawn. I believe that, just as the large sports associations in Budapest have received property management property management in the past, the same process would have been part of the real estate transfer to the Budapest Honvéd, which, by the way, Mr Szilágyi asked, most of it is officeless, so the sports association would continue to use it, it is also clearly state-owned, the State would hand over the right of trustee in this case. I think the previous examples also show that sports associations are excellent owners of these sports estates, I think they can make much better use of these properties from the point of view of athletes, if not the state as their trustee, but directly the sports associations, not to mention that this will increase the prestige, strength and authority of sports clubs. We are talking about large associations in Budapest, which are almost all over 100 years old, and we also have an association that is 125 years old. So I would not be worried at all if I were my fellow Members that these properties would fall into the wrong hands. In this case, there was obviously a procedural error, which is why this proposal was excluded from this bill. Of course, I hope that the government will find the opportunity during the spring session to make another amendment to the law that will enable the Budapest Hungarians - a long-standing, successful association - to obtain these properties for asset management. It was also raised by a number of my opposition fellow Members whether the procedure under which this law was brought before Parliament was even house-regular. Of course, it was house rules. It is possible for the Government, in a limited number of sessions, to request legislative proposals to this House under exceptional procedures. This was requested by the Government on the agenda under an exceptional procedure. Yesterday, Parliament has put this on its agenda, and today it will hold the debate, and we will take the decision, so there is nothing special about how this happened. It is possible for the government to do so, once again, according to the house rules, and the whole bill is submitted and now it is being negotiated in accordance with house rules, so there is no obstacle to its adoption and there is no obstacle to its adoption. The other part of the bill, which I would like to say to you, is the establishment of a control system for electronic road traffic. I believe that this proposal is intended to enable this system to function clearly, transparently, and otherwise to have sufficient flexibility, but it can achieve its most important objective - and that is to prevent and detect VAT fraud. The electronic road traffic control system operated as a system for monitoring the complex movement of goods and order of goods, including physical checks on the supply of goods or goods in the Community and on the basis of the first domestic taxable supply of goods, by means of an e-toll and otherwise a camera network, and on the basis of certain transport data recorded electronically, under the NAV risk analysis system. The aim of the EKAER is to monitor the road of goods, to reduce budgetary fraud in the area of general sales tax, to ensure the payment of public burdens on supplies and supplies, and to avoid placing on the market in Hungary goods which were not previously notified to the tax authority and, in the case of food, to the food chain safety supervisory authority. The purpose of this amendment is to facilitate the introduction and implementation of the electronic road traffic control system and to clarify its rules. Therefore, there will be no need to report on the carriage of goods by road within the framework of the so-called collector's transport of toll vehicles, provided that the quantity and quality of the product concerned do not exceed the limit laid down in the bill. This will ensure that the system functions more effectively. Furthermore, it is not necessary to enter an EKÁER number, it is enough to indicate it when loading. It facilitates the planned administration that, in the case of domestic transport, such notification may be made until the day following arrival. Thus, the EKAER system can contribute to a significant reduction in the number of abuses that have increased in the general turnover tax race, making market conditions transparent, thereby creating conditions for the functioning of fair operators. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, Allow me to conclude with a quote from Coelho: Nothing is fundamentally wrong in the world, even the inoperative clock is accurate at least twice a day. Thank you very much for your attention and for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, István Simicskó State Secretary asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-16-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Listening to the speeches of my fellow opposition Members, I thought about the reason for this very powerful, vehement attack, because sport teaches me many things. Allow me, fellow Members, to highlight one thought from many, many of the teachings of sport, and that is fair play, fair attitude to life, honest standing. I think it is worth considering this for a number of opposition representatives who have commented on this topic today, since there has been no discussion, this has also been said: with regard to the amendment of the sport law, who else should the government negotiate with than with the sports associations? These negotiations have taken place. We did coordinate with people in the sports world who do, work and form for football, handball, basketball. We didn't negotiate with the Hungarian National Association of Dog Farmers, and we didn't negotiate with many other civil society organisations, but we did negotiate with the professional organisations. We interpret their request here in Parliament, within the walls of this House. So there's been consultation, there's been sufficient professional consultation. Another important criticism that has been said here is the extent to which you believe transparency is being violated. Listening to Wind Bernadett earlier, I remembered when we used to say that Big Brother sees everything. Bernadett Wind talked about the fact that they couldn't see anything; except Bernadette Wind, who sees everything and always tells us what he sees, and we thank him very much for telling us, because he saw the tao numbers, he described exactly how much money he received, what kind of support they received, what income they had. Well, well, well, it's a transparent system after all, isn't it, dear Congresswoman? So there is no transparency problem. Moreover, the sports associations and the government inform you, inform the committees, and inform Brussels about how the Tao system works. [[11.20]] It's not a flawless system, but it's a system that we owe very, very much to. We can thank you for over a thousand careers, sports opportunities that have been completed and implemented in a thousand settlements in Hungary. We can also thank this for the fact that more than 100,000 children are playing sports thanks to this support system. The professional associations of sports use the option of corporation tax, and this is a good system. I'd like to ask you not just to look at the back of things. It is right to highlight various problems, problems, because there is nothing perfect in this world, we are people, we are weak, we all want to work well. We are working on this, we have done so in recent years, and we will continue to do so in the coming years. Sure, but don't look at the backside, look at the color of these things, they're good cases. Sports is a good thing, sport is a success. And don't let anyone worry that in sports, we Hungarians are talented and successful, so let's all be happy together. I would like there to be no debate on this issue, it is completely incomprehensible and unacceptable. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Only salad is the law!]] Yeah, I listened to Wind Bernadette. Besides, if we are thinking about it now - obviously about the law, but because of the speeches anyway - whether politics can be different. This is important, this is what the definition of their party, their faction, is all about. Of course, I'm sure you can, but sometimes here I heard a little bit of József Torgyán quoting styles. So this style, which some opposition representatives allow themselves, I apologize, with all due respect. The fact that they're stealing, the fact that they're constantly in jail, is that they're guided by their own interests - please, in sports, and anyway? Well, I'm sorry. So let's pay due respect to each other. Even if we are not role models for voters, but one thing is certain: what is said here can be read for posterity, not to mention that it can be seen and heard. We also have a responsibility as representatives to allow ourselves in Parliament, and I think it is worth paying attention to. Let's have proper respect for each other. If you'll allow me, I've been in martial arts for 25 years. I've learned that if you're strong, be gentle to respect your surroundings rather than fear you. I would like to ask you to be gentle, respectful and polite to each other. I also give respect to everyone, and I would like you to give respect to everyone, and not to introduce the government to a stealing, cheating, lying society, but to a decent-working community, claiming to own the fate of the people. That's what we're working for, and that's what we work for in sports. 114 thousand more children play sports in the last three years, thanks to four years' work. Only 18,000 more children play sports in basketball, 7500 more play in handball. It's our children we're talking about. Let me not go through all the sports, the sixteen major sports: the number of children playing sports has increased by 20 percent, thanks to the work of the last year and a half. We are working hard to make our children healthy adults through the value of sport - and you are talking about all your own interests. I have to refuse, I have to say. So the Tao system is also a transparent system, clear, clear, there's nothing going on. On the question raised by Mr Szilágyi, let me tell you about the case of the Budapest Honvéd. For two and a half years, I was the social president of the Budapest Hungarian Army. For each of the six major metropolitan clubs, the intention is to give priority support to professional programmes because the number of Olympic nominations and medals is crucially given by athletes who play sports in these clubs. This does not mean that rurals do not give, many rural clubs - I too am a rural person - work well, but in the case of six major metropolitan clubs, we really - over a hundred years of associations - aim to extend their responsibilities and opportunities, which is why they would receive property management in which they still operate and work, often under undeservable circumstances. We would also like to develop facilities so that if our children go to training there, they can train under cultural conditions. There is a locker room that has not been renovated in the Budapest Honvéd for 50 years, and it must also be at Ferencváros and many other clubs, and we would like to change that: we want to provide cultural conditions and conditions for sports. We don't give it to you, it's all state property, so it's also in Budapest's Honvéd, just like Ferencváros, MTK or Vasas or Újpest or BVSC, they get the opportunity to manage themselves responsibly. We believe that this is a correct direction, and this would have been included in the proposal tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Bánki. I hope that we will be able to discuss this in substance during the spring session. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we have a two-minute speech. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. What you just said is a slip. I didn't object at all to the fact that you wanted to give it to me. I object to the fact that the proposal submitted contains a list of local figures. I wanted to find out, and this is what I asked you to do, not just to have a location number, but to have it written there, let's say that the Budapest Honvéd's fencing hall is XIII. in a district [[Dr. István Simicskó: All right.]] And then you know what this is about and what we're talking about. The other, I'd like to respond to Erik Bánki. That is the problem, my dear fellow Member, that you are only on time twice a day, and we would like you to be precise and accurate all day, because that would be the right thing to do. The other is that I think that the aim of the whole Hungarian football and, by the way, the whole Hungarian sport is to get there at some point to end the mecenary system - which, by the way, remained here from the communist system - that the state, the municipalities and the like always support and support associations and professional sports associations. It is important to go to a business-based sport life, but it would be important - if we are talking about such things as sponsorship, support, marketing rights, media rights and the like - to have as much insight as possible into civil society, politics and everyone so that these professional sports associations are not just money laundering in the future, but are indeed responsible for managing the rights with which they can obtain revenue for themselves. That is why we do not think it is good to narrow down this circle, to widen it, and to make the state and the local authorities withdraw from sport; to make it a sport life that can support itself, as it does, in many places across Europe. However, if we could get here, it would be very important to be able to control these sports associations, that they are indeed responsible for farming. So that's why we're against it. By the way, I don't think I speak disrespectfully, and I have the utmost respect for the Secretary of State. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. We'll continue with the two-minutes. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry, but he's not my gym teacher. He doesn't want me to be raised here about his love of sports and his psychological effects. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. János Fónagy: You should have some education. The president's ringing the bell.]] We are fellow Members, I would like to demand due respect, and I would like to make it clear that we are equal parties, there is no need for Coelho quotes, nor any, I do not know, education in my direction. Answer my questions. I can't, I don't have the time to take their slides off piece by piece, but I would like to say that the carriers have not been consulted, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It wasn't about the trade alliances. The carriers weren't consulted, and that's the fact, it's all over the Internet that you didn't talk to these associations, these people. With regard to the trade alliances, I can say that transparency of money is a fundamental requirement when it comes to tao money, period. The info law is to find out at any time, under any circumstances, what these are used for. Don't try to take it out of the info law with a butcher's method that's legally insane and that's what you're trying to do here. And the third is, and this is my most important question: why is there no one in the benches of the government - although the Minister has arrived, he may answer it - or among the Members who will tell us why Andy Vajna is getting another tax relief when the country is in poverty, we have a budget that is a scandal? ! Why are they giving Andy Vajna the public money? Tell me, be nice. Answer that. I don't want to hear Coelho quotes, I don't want to hear folk education. Answer the question. Why is Andy Vajna being sabotaged again?
u2014-12-16-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Erik Bánki is next, for a two-minute speech.
u2014-12-16-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with Congressman György Szilágyi: this is indeed the goal, the aim is to enable the sports economy to be established in Hungary; to have a strong corporate structure, a small and medium-sized enterprise system, where these businesses are able to generate so much profit during the year, from which they can serve such goals, community goals, including support for sports clubs, to offer children the opportunity to have sports opportunities or to support top sports in order to be role models, icons, who draw on the popularity of the particular sport and thus encourage as many children as possible to play sports. So we totally agree on that. [[11.30]] Unfortunately, the Hungarian economy is not ripe for this today, but I think that we are on the right track, the economic growth and sustainable development that manifests in the Hungarian economy, I very much hope that in a few years it will be able to get the economy and the players in the economy to the point where they can take over these state tasks. When we launched the corporate tax relief scheme, we started it with this aim, and in Brussels we argued that the basis for the creation of a sports economy is to try to bring companies and different companies closer to sport and thus to persuade them to support it in the long term. I do not understand what your problem with quotes is with my colleague Bernadett Szél's comment. I'd like to offer you one more. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] If you're already a member of the opposition and you're about to defeat us. I would like to quote Michael Jordan to you - you may not know this is about the best basketball player in the world ever lived - who said that you should respect your opponent because fear and respect go hand in hand. If you don't respect your opponent, you'll never be able to defeat him. I would ask you to take this into account, Congresswoman, perhaps you will have more success in your work. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Secretary of State Simicskó began his speech perhaps two or three years ago on the grounds of the vehement attack of the opposition. Well, I will mention a number of reasons, but let me start by saying, Mr Secretary of State, that you have put before this House a law which is both unconstitutional, unconstitutional and contrary to EU legislation. I believe that this is in itself enough reason for the opposition to vehemently attack a bill. The other, Mr Secretary of State, is what you said about calling into question the integrity of the proposal and of the government. Dear Secretary of State, Not yours, but the government's. And it is not a coincidence, I think that you did not put forward these proposals, but that the proposals concerning sport were presented together with a salad amendment package, and I consider Mr Secretary of State responsible for this area to be much more than bringing one of these to the House. Speaking in his defense, I'll admit that to natural loyalty. I would like to make two points to Mr Banki's speech. One thing is that all fair anti-democratic governments use speeding up procedures, simplifying procedures, and increasing efficiency to justify decimation procedural and constitutional guarantees. That's pretty much what we're witnessing right now. The other thing I suggest to you, Mr President, is that it is a little strange - and I think you should know that as a member of the Bureau of MLS - when you wish to compare sports associations with other civil society organisations. This is about as if I wanted to compare these parties. Obviously, the nature of these is completely different, even if certain common features can be found between them. With regard to merit and certain substantive provisions of the proposal: I think that no one denies that they want to narrow down the possibilities for reporting in the case of sports professional associations compared to the current one. So it's a fact that clearly cannot be denied. The Legislative Committee, in consultation with the Chairman of the Data Protection Authority, would allow this to be done a little less than the original proposal would have done, since it would have been extended there. And I would like to quote the intention before Parliament: the intention was to extend it to all sources, i.e. to what the sports professional association receives from state aid. That this does not extend, it was not your will to do so, but that the President of the Data Protection Authority drew your attention to the fact that this is completely unconstitutional, violates international law and violates EU standards. That's the thing. That doesn't make your motivation any better. The other, honourable Members, is that, as I said, however, the scope of the possibilities for requesting data in the case of sports associations is narrowing. I understand the business secret, and I understand that, and I have no problem not having to, let's say, account to a professional association that a well-willed sports sponsor is providing 15-20 thousand forints of support to such an organization, but that is not the case. And everyone knows that, you know that, and we know that, and everyone who understands this subject a little bit or less knows it. What we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, is that during the first Orbán government, there was also a method - it was also a criminal case - that state aid was not transferred directly to these associations or professional associations, but, for example, fictitious advertising agreements, and that state funds were transferred to these associations under the pretext of fictitious advertising agreements. They are now following another method, which is about that - and this is part of the process that I can summarize by means of institutionalized state corruption committed by legislation - that you will not want to deliver state aid directly to these alliances, but that you will bring in a piece of legislation with which Andy Vajna's companies, mentioned a lot in this debate, do not have to pay VAT for some of their revenues. He will win x billion forints in exchange for his gratitude for supporting certain trade unions. And from then on, of course, these are private grants. And private support will also be provided by the support provided by the Butcher and Ripper and the support provided by the Public Machine to the sports associations. However, these amounts will not have to be accounted for on the basis of the bill you have just tabled. So, even if you put a screw in the system, it's still a public use, and it's still the same intention that, in fact, information on how to use the money of a sports association, supported by public money, or a trade union money, will not be available. It is that simple, fellow Members. They even tried direct state aid, but it's, you know, unconstitutional, so there's this. For example, I would be interested to know whether I can compare and draw a flow chart between a bill that provides certain private companies with a clear tax reduction or a different discount and that these companies supported certain sports associations with a large amount of support. Because, ladies and gentlemen, just because there's a referral in it doesn't mean it's a part of state corruption. The fact that the state doesn't directly support you, but the fidesz oligarchs will be asked to do so, doesn't mean the situation is the same. Another subject that I would like to discuss, ladies and gentlemen: this is not the first time there is a proposal before this House where you refer to the fact that I would like to prevent VAT fraud. And it's not the first time I've told you that to prevent and prevent VAT fraud, there's still every possibility for the tax authority, the NAV. You are not lacking in opportunities and not in the means, but in the will, my fellow Members, the will is lacking in the government and the NAV. They do not shed light on the $1,000 billion VAT fraud that Mr Horváth has shown his dossier to quite a number of people, including you, because you do not have the means to do so, but because you do not want it. That's a big difference. What are they doing now? It means that they are creating a situation - and this again, I can say, as part of a process - that they are changing the relationship between the state and citizens and putting citizens in an increasingly vulnerable position vis-à-vis public authorities. They put those who, let me put it this way, are small people, small and medium-sized enterprises. Obviously, these rules will not be applied, just as they have not been applied to companies such as the Butcher and his partner or the Public Machine. But, of course, you'll be employed by small entrepreneurs or perhaps by entrepreneurs who are competing with your buddies. 'Cause what can you do at a time like this? Whether to impose a totally unfounded fine, to impose a large fine. As a result, they can book the production equipment or the stock of a company, and then, when it turns out later that the NAV procedure was completely unfounded, then - they already know it and we know it well, you did it in public law and you do it in economic life - a situation has developed, and that can no longer be changed. [[11.40]] Even though you're right about the injury, you can't change it. That's what they did this time. For example, András Baka just won a final lawsuit yesterday, and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg said that you dismissed Andras Baka because he dared to give his opinion on the law of the court, and that was negative, he did not agree with the government's opinion. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that has now been established by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in its second judgment. And the result? Only that taxpayers will give money to András Baka as compensation, but that doesn't bring him back to the Supreme Court or under the new name of the Curia, but you have removed him. That's what they do in public law. But they do the same thing in the economy. If this is done by the NAV, then it may be true for the small businessman, but it has already been destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the attitude that is characteristic of non-democratic states. This is the attitude that this kind of corrupt government system is characterised by, and that is the attitude that all opposition representatives must stand against. Dear Secretary of State, When you ask why we're attacking this proposal so vehemently, that's why. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Since Erik Bánki said, and in this we share the view that we should put the funding of Hungarian sport, the Hungarian sport life on a business basis, and that this is a desirable common goal for the state to minimise its participation, we should start from the beginning with - you should help me in this, too, please - to get politicians who are involved in associations today, leading professional sports associations, to withdraw from the sport life, to reduce the political influence on Hungarian sport, and to consider, perhaps, with Mr Gábor Vona, we have already submitted this bill once, so that it is also legitimated, that if you would now support the first step out of Hungarian sport, let politics finally become a cleaner Hungarian sport, and try to get the associations and the professional sports associations to work on business funds. However, it would then be important to keep these checks, so I would also ask the Member to take this part out of this bill, which would mean that it should not be possible to require data of general interest that is almost or difficult or to limit the scope of questions where public interest data can be requested from the sports associations. So this could be the first step to not accept this at the moment, take it out, and the second step is that then politicians who are in the running of the Hungarian sports life should also withdraw from the Hungarian sports life. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-50	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman László Varga. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You mentioned fair play, you often use that term. Is it fair that this proposal, submitted yesterday, gives NAV an opportunity to absorb the masses of small and medium-sized enterprises, making their activity impossible? Is it fair that, in relation to the EKÁER system, this proposal makes the life of Hungarian carriers difficult, even if you keep talking about the elimination of VAT fraud, with very little preparation time and competitive disadvantage? Is it fair that the third element of the proposal in terms of sports life - you often used the term "fair play" - is it fair that the sports support practice of public companies in Hungary today? Is it fair that this proposal plans to make support for sports associations even more opaque? Is it fair that the range of social tax-supported clubs shows a sufficiently distorted picture? Is it fair that among the clubs supported by corporate tax incentives, Felcsút is outstanding, the Prime Minister's favourite team is outstanding, and billions go to fully prestigious investments? You know, I would be a very partner, and I think our faction, in a completely fair and transparent legislative environment, especially in terms of sports subsidies... - that would also be in Hungary's interest and Hungarian sports life. We speak out against this proposal because it is not a fair proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-52	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to correct another harsh slide by Erik Bánki, which compared sports alliances to virtually non-governmental organisations. I think that Erik Bánki knows that he said that civil society organisations do not fall within the scope of the info law, that is not the case, because most of them do not perform a public task, but those who provide it do fall within the scope of the info law. Sport associations have a wide range of public tasks. It was said that they were developing various investments, infrastructure, large public funds and tax incentives. From now on, put a bill on the table that limits transparency here, at least it is outrageous, my honourable fellow Member. You came to me with Michael Jordan and Coelho, everything. I would like to confront you with one thing: the Hungarian government has made certain transparency commitments by joining the open government cooperation; corruptciomegozes.kormany.hu, please turn the page and see exactly what you have undertaken, and what relationship it has with this filth that you are trying to trick through the Hungarian parliament in 24 hours. And one more thing: Fidesz has 18 minutes and 29 seconds, KDNP has 22 minutes and 42 seconds. With all due respect, I would like to ask one of the State Secretarys who is here, or anyone of the Members, to stand up and tell me why Andrew Vajna is receiving new tax incentives. We've been debating this law for almost two hours, talking about everything, about physical and mental development, sport, transporters, but about the point of the salad law, which is about Andy Vajna being mugged by the two-thirds again, nobody said a word. Why, Mr. Secretary of State? Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government?
u2014-12-16-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A proper speech will be followed by Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unprepared haste characterizes their legislation. You know that. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Look, I'd only touch two items. One is related to businesses, the other is related to sports life. With regard to businesses, it seems that they now want to make the authorities an instrument of policy, namely the National Tax and Customs Office, who, if it takes decisions, can also take direct and rapid procedures after the adoption of decisions, in which it can take stock of goods or anything else away from businesses, without the undertaking being able to exercise its right of appeal. What if it is not the possibility of deliberately destroying businesses? God don't give it to you, businesses that poke their eyes at you may also be talking about destroying those businesses, because they don't have a chance to appeal, enforce their right, but before that they can destroy them. There have been examples in Hungary, you know that. There were times when a company holding a monitoring information system was faced with strong pressures, and even during a month in December armed tax inspectors appeared at the owners and the company. Then a tragic death followed this story the day after the surrender, to which, of course, you did not have a sentence to say. So I want to say and suggest that you take care that the authorities do not become a political instrument in your hands. The other thing is about the Tao, sport in general, which is about being aware that Tao is public money, as much as they do not want it to be, and also that it is unfair to remove these resources from the scope of the Information Act. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-16-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Tukacs, from the MSZP Group, of course, until the end of the remaining timeframe. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Although the atmosphere before Christmas break is felt, I would like to talk about an important aspect of this draft for the remaining two minutes, which has not yet been discussed in the debate. The problem isn't just that they want to push this law through Parliament in one day. The problem is not only that they want to make money in the event of alliances invisible to those who are curious about how farming is done there. The problem is that in this procedure they are accomplice to sports leaders and to athletes as well. They're gonna turn them into cynics, and they deserve a better fate. [[11.50]] They should not be accomplices in whether or not farming is transparent, but they accept this situation, because they are quasi operating on the sidewalk of these money, dependent on it, can do nothing else. If they want to play sports, if they want to lead the sport, they have to cooperate. Therefore, not only does it have a devastating effect that everyone sees what is happening, but also that these people, who deserve a better fate, become accomplices in this matter. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-12-16-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-59	Thank you very much. I need to be quick, 'cause there's only one minute left. This summer I asked Mihály Varga a question: why is Andy Vajna getting so many tax breaks? They replied that in order to succeed, they would be able to spend more of this money on children's meals. What you're doing is very cynical, very cynical. And remember every day when you eat your Christmas lunch, how you lie every day inside the walls of this House! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-60	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the consolidated debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-16-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to respond briefly to two points, which I believe are necessary, although some have already been said in the debate. The opposition representatives suggested that the toy tax amendment was hidden by the government in the salad law. I report that this is the beginning of the legislation, so it would have been difficult for us to hide it. The same toy tax issue goes on to mention Andy Vajna's name. To stay on the subject of sport, this is a pretty big gate, because for the organisation of the remote gambling only the state organizer, Szerencségy Zrt. is entitled, so I would suggest that the thoughts expressed in the detailed debate be repeated. As far as the EKAER points are concerned, as from 1 January, the provisions governing this system will enter into force, the Law on the Rules of Taxation, which introduces this system. With the publication of the law, the principle of operation of the system to be introduced has become clear to the parties concerned, and the proposals to amend the law have also been brought before the House in an exceptional procedure in order to bring this to the attention of the companies and carriers concerned as soon as possible, and in view of the entry into force of January, we wanted to settle on time the details that had to be considered on the basis of the comments received. The government has found appropriate solutions for the comments. These were necessary in time to streamline the administrative burden in order to ensure smooth implementation of the system. And where did these comments come from? Honourable Members, Of course, they came up during the consultations, I didn't suck my finger, believe me. The carriers, companies concerned, all the large companies and professional associations you have mentioned here have raised the problems on which, among other things, this amendment will be resolved. I would like to ask honourable Members to acknowledge that without the partnership, effort and cooperative behaviour of honest taxpayers, we cannot combat tax fraud. If these companies complain to you, it is because we really expect all the burdens, all the effort from them to work to combat tax fraud. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because we will continue our work with decisions. Dear Parliament, First, the bill amending individual laws in relation to the regulation of public funds will be decided in an exceptional procedure. In doing so, a request for reservations and a separate vote is not possible. First, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2373/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 117 yeses, 61 votes not, without abstention. It is now the final vote. In doing so, we will decide on a changed text of the bill with the proposed summary amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the amended bill. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill 112 yes, 69 not by vote, without abstention. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and related laws and a final vote. The submission was made in T/2082. was available to all of us. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal is T/2082/5, and its summary report is T/2082/6. was available. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. Article 48 of the Rules of Procedure. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of Section 5 of the summary amendment proposal, he initiated a separate vote. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2082/5. Point 5 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept point 5 of the summary amendment by 3 votes in favour, 145 votes in favour and 36 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2082/5. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 122 votes, 58 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament did not accept all the points of the summary amendment proposal, we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2082. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill 122 yes, 63 not by vote, without abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to construction and spatial planning. The submission is T/2078. Number 2 is available on the IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/2078/6, and its summary report T/2078/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/2078/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the Group of the LMP Group has adopted the T/2078/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour. [[12.00]] As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2078/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 146 votes in favour, 7 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2078/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 6 against and 32 abstentions. It is now up to us to decide on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws in relation to the more efficient provision of national financial services and the final vote. The submission is T/2079. was available to all of them. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/2079/6 and its summary report T/2079/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/2079/2, the MSZP is the T/2079/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] According to Section T/2079/2, the MSZP is the T/2079/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 123 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2079/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 39 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2079/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 38, with 23 abstentions. The decision and final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the bill on the health contribution of tobacco companies for 2015 follow up. The submission is T/2027. was available to all of them on the network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/2027/7 and its summary report T/2027/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As the factions have not submitted a request for a reservation or a separate request for a vote, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2027/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 34 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2027/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes to 38, with 23 abstentions. Next up is the 2012 CXXXIV on reducing young people's smoking and retailing of tobacco products. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/2080. was available to all of them. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/2080/9 and its summary report T/2080/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/2080/2 of the Jobbik Group. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Under Rule T/2080/2 of the Jobbik Group The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 122 against and 34 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2080/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 63 against, with 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2080/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 122 votes in favour, 62 against and 1 abstention. The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law for harmonisation purposes and a final vote. The submission is T/2083. Number 1 was available on the parliamentary IT network. T/2083/6. T/2083/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP is T/2083/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] According to Section T/2083/2 of the MSZP The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 124 against and 29 abstentions. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2083/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes in favour, 8 against and 53 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2083-9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 141 votes to one, with 38 abstentions. The final vote on the bill on the villages of loyalty follows. Csaba Hende, Péter Ágh and Alpár Gyopáros, members of our Fidesz Members, made their own motion T/2188. was given to them. In the absence of a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, the proposal was not discussed by the Legislative Committee, but the Jobbik Group is the House Rule 48. § 4 of the T/2188/3. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 157 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2188. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 177 votes against, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, The decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision on the day of the Hungarian flag and coat of arms will now follow. The submission is H/2117. was available to all of them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/217/12 and its summary report H/2117/13. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section H/217/6, Jobbik is a member of H/217/6. and No 7 and MSZP is H/217/3. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're gonna decide first. First, H/217/6. I would like to put to the vote the amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 124 votes in favour and 8 votes in favour. Now it's H/217/7. I would ask for a vote on Amendment 1. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 125 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour. H/217/3 We will decide on a proposal for an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 36 votes in favour, 122 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept H/2117/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes, 4 votes and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/217/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 155 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour and 3 votes in favour. Next up is the 2011 CXC on national public education. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/2085. T/2085/42. T/2085/43. He may have been recognized. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 4 and 4 of Section T/2085/9, Jobbik proposed to maintain the T/2085/4, 7 and 8 and the MSZP proposed amendments T/2085/12, 14 and 15. That's what we're gonna decide first. The T/2085/9. István Ikotity, T/2085/15. László Kiss and Ágnes Kunhalmi propose amendments with the same content. We will therefore decide on these together. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 39 votes, 144 votes and no abstentions. T/2085/4. We will decide on a proposal for an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes, 124 votes and no abstentions. T/2085/7. Amendment No 3 - Dóra Dúró, T/2085/14. Mr Kiss and Ms Kunhalmi put forward a proposal with the same content. We'll decide these things together. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 60 votes in favour, 122 votes in favour and 2 votes in favour. T/2085/8. We are deciding on an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and 33 votes in favour. T/2085/12. We will decide on a proposal for an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment proposal with 63 votes, 122 votes and no abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2085/42. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 121 votes, 35 votes and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2085/45. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 122 yeses, 63 votes not, without abstention. It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain health and health insurance legislation. The submission was made in T/2123. T/2123/14, and the summary report is T/2123/15. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/213/5, the LMP is the T/213/5. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, the LMP is subject to Article T/213/5. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 122 votes in favour and 30 votes in favour. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2123/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 151 yes, 34 votes not, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2123/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 145 votes in favour, 35 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour. The final vote and the decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain agricultural legislation relating to the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture, Food Economics and Rural Development now follows. István Jakab and Balázs Győrffy's own motion for amendment of the Legislative Committee T/2088/14 and its summary report T/2088/15. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments T/2088/3, 4 and 5. [[12.20]] That's what we're gonna decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/2088/3. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes to 121, with 27 abstentions. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament whether T/2088/4. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes to 123, with 29 abstentions. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament whether T/2088/5. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes to 121, with 27 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2088/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 40, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/2088/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the single proposal by 123 yeses, 63 votes not, without abstention. The entry and residence of third-country nationals will now be followed by the 2007 II. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. Antal Rogán, Bence Tuzon and Péter Csizi's own motion T/1168. and the summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/1168/7, T/1168/8. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. As the factions have not tabled a motion for a reservation or a separate vote on a request, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1168/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 123 yes, 63 votes not, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1168/9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 121 yeses, 64 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on business opening and the final vote. Semjén Zsolt and other Members' own motion T/1914, the summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1914/19, and its summary report T/1914/20. was available. Now it's time for the decisions. I'd like to inform you that the house rules are 48. § 4 of the LMP is the T/1914/11. Amendments T/1914/4, 5 and 6 were proposed by the MSZP. That's what we're gonna decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1914-11. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes, 152 votes against, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1914/12 will maintain it. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes to 121, with two abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains T/1914/4. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 yeses, 151 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now T/1914-6. We decide to maintain the amendment. I'm asking if they're gonna keep this up. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes to 144, with three abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1914/5 will maintain it. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes to 150, with two abstentions. Since Parliament, my fellow Members, has not maintained an amending proposal, we are now deciding on a summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1914/19. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment 119 yes, 40 votes not, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1914/22. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal 119 yes, 40 votes not, with 25 abstentions. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén shakes hands with Péter Harrach. Applause from KDNP benches.]] It is now up to you to discuss the immunity matter and to take a decision. The immunity committee shall be composed of the following members: and XV. At the request of the District Court, H/2404. Mr Tamás László presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of Mr. I give the floor to the President of the Commission, Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-63	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Budapest IV. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. District Court 6B.1519/201213. Tamás László submitted a motion for the suspension of the immunity of a Member of Parliament on the basis of Lajos Sebestyén's private indictment for the offence of defamation. Tamás László personally presented the above immunity issue at the meeting of the immunity committee on 15 December 2014. It presented the facts of the case concerning a contract for the purchase of real estate with a replacement in which two individuals participated. One party is a XV. he swapped a district-government apartment for the other party's own apartment. The latter, however, had a dispute between the two private parties, which had ended in implementation, and the owner of the former municipal dwelling wished to request a new municipal dwelling afterwards. In this connection, this Contracting Party, Lajos Sebestyén, filed a criminal complaint as a private accuser, because according to him, Tamás László used an expression suitable for defamation on the 17th of July 2012. [[12.30]] Lajosné Sebestyén indicted the Budapest IV. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The Court of Justice of the District of the European Union held that Article XIX of 1998 on criminal proceedings Law 499. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Code, order an investigation into a private charge. In the absence of jurisdiction, the immunity committee has not dealt with the criminal prosecution of the case. According to the pro-government representatives, in this case, too, the immunity committee's practice of upholding immunity in cases of defamation, which ensures the purpose of immunity, i.e. the smooth working of Parliament and Members, must be followed. This position was also agreed by the Socialist Vice-President of the Committee. In view of this, the motion to suspend the immunity of Tamás László has received 4 votes against and 2 votes against, which were cast by Jobbik's representatives. By rejecting the motion for the waiver of immunity with the stated voting rate, the Committee recommends that the parliamentary representative Tamás László should not suspend his immunity in the given case. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-16-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will ask Mr Tamás László if he wishes to speak within a five-minute timeframe. [[Tamás László: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It's up to you to make a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Tamás László suspends his immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mr Tamás László by 23 votes in favour, 150 votes against and no abstentions. I would like to thank you for your cooperation and give the chair to Vice President Tamás Sneider. The interpellations are coming up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (Tamás Sneider, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair. In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki.)
u2014-12-16-65	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Under the powers extended by paragraph 1 of Article 1 of the Act, Hungarian MP Zoltán K/2276. Mr Varga, Minister for National Economy, the motion was rejected. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, vice-president of the MSZP, will now hear the interpellation:. Who is right about KLIK? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-16-66	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. In connection with the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre, two important documents are now being discussed by the professional public. One is a program involving schools, the other is a government proposal. Following the index.hu news portal, a number of press organisations reported on the program titled "Knowledge Forum 3.3 Action Planning" The essence of this program - which is a mandatory task for many hundreds of schools - is that the school principals give a presentation to their colleagues with the help of an attached presentation and then process the mission of the great KLIK as part of a group workshop. According to this news, KLIK's mission is to provide stability and predictability to institutions, employees and students as the largest organization in Hungary. In addition to several other components, the vision of the KLIK is: we are an attractive and predictable workplace. I mean, it's the KLIK. Our organization is controlled by credible leaders with a high level of expertise. We work in an inspiring cultural environment that supports creativity, innovative thinking, and further quote:. Parents are confident about our institutions, they see the development and future of their children as assured. That's all the quote is. The other document is a submission to the Government of 202/2012 on the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. amending the Government Decree of 27 July 2007. The essence of this is that the current organisation and functioning of the KLIK needs to be modified, because this cannot continue. The essence of the regulation is that it rejects the principle of directing all public education institutions in the country from one building and recognises that the KLIK cannot be operated in its original set-up, it does not provide a solution for Hungarian public education, but creates a new problem. The two documents, the school program conducted by KLIK, and the government referral simply do not fit together. The government regulation amendment says that the KLIK can't function as it has done so far, while the KLIK is polishing itself and its present. Then, Mr. Secretary of State, I ask you: 1. Who is right, the KLIK, which builds its own statue of glory and polishes itself, or the Ministry of Human Resources, of which you are the Secretary of State? 2. How much does the KLIK glory figure cost, how much is this program? 3. Do you think KLIK is an attractive and predictable workplace? Would you work there? Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-67	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-16-68	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to start answering questions from behind. How predictable or unpredictable is KLIK? It is certainly a more predictable job than the Central Office of the Hungarian Socialist Party, from which we have heard that half of the people have been sent in recent months, and is not really a well-organized office. The KLIK is definitely a better place than that. Not that I've ever thought about working at the Central Office of the MSZP, but I hear things are pretty chaotic in there. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In your second question, you asked, honourable Member, exactly how much this knowledge forum cost. About HUF 6-8 million was spent on these conversations, with a budget of up to HUF 8 million. The point of this, honourable Member, is that teachers receive feedback from the leaders of the KLIK. At the same time, there are school principals, district leaders from the central office of the KLIK, and other different teachers and public education professionals, and they are waiting for the feedback that the head of the institution there tells them. These include both negative and positive, but I think that it is possible to improve the KLIK's organisation if we receive these feedback. And here we can continue this story with the amendment of the regulation, the amendment of the law, and I would even add to what the Member said, the amendment of the PMS, which is necessary for the better functioning of the CLIK. We have tabled a legislative amendment here to Parliament, on which we were able to vote minutes ago, and we are changing the rules on KLIK at regulation level to ensure that Hungary's largest employer - because there is no bigger company, bigger company, bigger budgetary institution, bigger business company in Hungary than KLIK, this is the largest employer in Hungary today - is working as well as possible, since there are obviously many problems in setting up such an organization. We trust that the experience of the people working there will be integrated into this. The goals you have said are indeed the goals of the KLIK. I think we all think it's good to have a vision of an institution that wants to be more stable and predictable, to have knowledge and credible leaders of the system. I am pleased to hear the opinions of the staff of the district heads, institution managers and staff. It is very important that the teacher career model is also mentioned in these forums. You know as well as I do that the budget voted on yesterday is 38 billion forints plus, which is more for teachers next year than they got this year. In September, the wages of all teachers will be increased, and in January, for those who have undertaken something in addition, either to surrender their portfolio, or to become a master teacher and to participate more in the quality system in schools. [[12.40]] With regard to the transformation of the KLIK's organization and its operation, you have seen that the centre is primarily responsible for controlling and strategic roles of this amendment and the portfolio; at the territorial level, functional tasks and professional tasks will be more likely to appear. There will be fewer departments in the central management of the KLIK, fewer classes and fewer employees; and in the SZMSZ the tasks will be changed to county level, more precisely, to the district level of the county seat, where appropriate, so that the co-ordination of the districts will also be changed, as a district that is in the county seat will be a leader. This creates a mid-level management task that responds to all the criticisms that have been expressed in professional forums, political forums, and seeks to improve the coordination of the district at county level, thus bringing financial decision levels much closer to the institutions themselves. Thus, the new tasks of the county districts will be primarily due to the fact that the district district district district district district district district will be more likely to involve primary education in high school, adult education, vocational education, secondary secondary school, vocational training, college or multi-purpose institutional education, and primary school primary art education at district level. I trust that this will also improve the operation of the KLIK. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-69	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-70	Dear Secretary of State, Thus, before Christmas, it is worth considering first what we fully agree on. We agree that we won't invite you to the Socialist Party, and you won't come to the Socialist Party. The agreement is now almost complete. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] Let us now consider the substance of your answer. First of all, I have to say that you have broken your promise to the teachers. You said you'd make the teacher's career model valuable, permanent. Then, in the first full calendar year, this value-proofness is cut out of the window by whistling. They took away the possibility of defining further details of the pedagogical career model on the minimum wage, and that is not true in a few weeks, even on 1 January, let alone in the long term. Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State, there is no HUF 38 billion in the budget. There are 10 billion forints in the budget; it is not designed for base, but reduced, it is designed to cover the costs of rem. I don't accept your answer. Merry Christmas.
u2014-12-16-71	I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 40 against. Dear Parliament, Előd Novák, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How can Gábor Bódi, who was saved from the Bajnai government, fill four main jobs in public money at the same time if he is only supposed to work 10 hours a day as Deputy State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-72	Dear Minister, Unfortunately, the State Secretary's declaration of property is not published; we cannot look into it as a representative, but it turns out that your Deputy State Secretary, Gábor Bódi, earns 2 million 600 thousand forints a month, more than twice as much as the ministerial salary, as he fills four main jobs at once, and of course all of them are paid with public money. This could not happen on a market basis in the civil sector, of course, because it is not tolerated if someone does not perform their duties at elementary level, but your public administration is different. Of course, small people should work 10 hours a day, Minister is no longer ashamed to say it, and I quote: the Prime Minister's Office is unfortunately not a family-friendly workplace and that it is not mandatory to work at the Prime Minister's Office. In the meantime, not only would the leaders at least set an example, but, for example, Gábor Bódi fills three other state main jobs: for one million a month, he is managing the state-owned Kopint-Datorg Kft., while at the same time the also state-owned Antenna Hungária Zrt. for 175,000 a month. Member of the Board of Directors. In addition, for 648 thousand a month, the President of the National Communications and Informatics Council (NMHH) which is in principle independent of the government, which is also spicy because it is their task to give independent opinions on draft legislation. So obviously there is no serious disagreement, no debate if he sits on both sides of the negotiating table: as Deputy State Secretary responsible for coordinating infocommunications and as Chairman of the Independent Panel. You might even be your own senior advisor, if I could suggest a fifth full-time job as an add-on. Gábor Bódi was also Secretary of State of the Bajnai Government. During the past eight years, you've saved your power, let alone been accounted for. Really, if you're going to go Goose, be fat. Don't you want to appoint him as the accounting commissioner for the sixth full-time job? And I have to ask Lajos Kósa for the Superman Prize back, because in light of all this, it's nothing he did as a congressman and mayor of a distant city at the same time. I believe that I have the right to call political job accumulation a legal form of political crime, which is why I am proud that Jobbik and I have managed to put an end to its most common form, that someone is a Member of Parliament and mayor at the same time. This is an old demand, but it seems we have a lot of work to do, because the creativity and unscrupulousness of Fidesz in this area are boundless. That is why we are initiating the cessation of the job accumulation of State Secretarys and their deputies and the publicity of their declaration of property, and of course also of family members living in one household, because some tend to have their properties registered in the name of their small children in the order of 100 million just to try to hide their inexplicable wealth growth in public. Dear Minister, So how can Gábor Bódi, who has been transferred from the Bajnai government, fill four full-time jobs in public money at once if he is only supposed to have a 10-hour working day as Deputy State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office? Since you clearly do not perform your duties, will you initiate your acquittal? Thank you for honoring me with your personal response. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-73	I now give the floor to Minister John Lazarus.
u2014-12-16-74	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My dear fellow Member, It is comforting to me that I have heard the Member; he has not come out of his form; I have recently missed these high-quality speeches here in Parliament. I thought your party was repressed or you were struggling with some kind of disease, that you spoke less. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: One of the most active.]] I am now reassured that he is once again enriching the history of the Hungarian Parliament with speeches of similar quality. First of all, let me draw your attention to the fact that the State Secretarys of State are of course making a declaration of property, which is public and accessible. Obviously, the lack of preparation for Jobbik shows that his written and then oral interpellation shows that the State Secretarys do not. Yeah, they do, they do, they do. The Deputy State Secretarys are not political leaders. Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi, Head of Professional Affairs, and therefore no declaration of assets made in accordance with the law should be made public. Indeed, in the Hungarian administration, this is undoubtedly becoming less and less common, but there are also some professionals who do their professional management or professional work independently of governments. There are some Mohicans head of department or deputy state secretary. In this context, political leaders share their values that this is right or wrong. In order to implement the strategic agreement with Deutsche Telekom - in which we will provide better broadband internet access in 3 million 600 thousand households by 2018 - the Orbán Government has taken advantage of the preparedness and knowledge of this specialist, Gábor Bódi, who, by the way, is well-known and recognised in the IT profession. After reading the names of the IT companies caused a small problem for my fellow Member, as he read his interpellation in paper, I think that Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi might have stepped on someone's feet, that he was otherwise not worthy of the legislative power and was not typically required to involve a professional leader of the executive power, a Deputy State Secretary, in Parliament. I suppose we have the advisors, perhaps injured interests or those involved in a debate who do not like the work of Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi. [[Moraj in the benches of opposition parties. Dr. András Schiffer: Answer the question! The answer! Dr. Gábor Staudt: Don't start with yourselves.]] Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi holds positions in places - I asked him this morning and he is ready to give up his fee at the places filled - all places without exception [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. Zoltán Pride: That's something! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It was worth it!]] - if I may, I will finish - they are linked to the implementation of the aforementioned investments. Both the company concerned and the IT Council were tasked by the government to prepare for this investment, but I expect Gábor Bódi, Deputy State Secretary, to do the work of the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for e-administration, government e-administration, to do so with the Ministry of Development, which is responsible for IT policy, so that the net infrastructure can be built in Hungary and is uploaded in parallel with the construction. Today, unfortunately, voters who want to reach the Hungarian state electronically can receive relatively modest services compared to their paid taxes. [[12.50]] We would like to use European Union and domestic resources to improve the electronic administration of the Hungarian state, while providing infrastructure, so that taxpayers can contact a more efficient, better functioning, cheaper, more rational and uncooperative state. This is the work that Gábor Bódi has received, so far there have been no complaints about his activities, but I would like to call my fellow Member to the Prime Minister's Office a half-floor lower, waiting in my office, or taking him to the office of Deputy State Secretary Gábor Bódi to discuss your questions in person and to discuss what Mr Secretary Bódi is doing. All my colleagues are at your disposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-75	I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-76	Dear Minister, Unfortunately, I cannot accept your answer, although it is a serious step forward to give up the fee, but I do not think that a person who is supposed to have a ten-hour working time can honour his task and is still in a position of great leadership. Not only is it painful for us, and the problem with the job accumulation of politicians was not only that they take on full-time salaries from several places, but also that they cannot do their job with integrity. If he is willing to do so without money, and even seems to want it specifically, it is more than suspicious, to put it mildly, if it is worth it to him, even without money, to perform these tasks. So if a man who, let me take this assumption, was the Secretary of State of the Bajnai Government, would do it without any money in the public interest, it would sound very nice, but let me not believe it or accept it. So if you want to do your job honestly, give the opportunity to those economic refugees who are forced abroad because they can't find decent jobs at home, and so I ask you to stop the job accumulation of politicians and make his declaration public, too, because it's not available. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-77	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply 109 yes, 23 votes not, with 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What does it take for the government to find out that Russia is an unreliable partner? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2014-12-16-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, When we ask the government why it is good that we are tied to Russia in Putin on a thousand strings, you regularly say that Russia is a reliable partner. I am curious to know how you think about this issue, and how you want to change your strategies in the near future, after you have been thoroughly eluded by Putin Russia in relation to the South Stream. I am really just glad that some of the Hungarian foreign reserves were not placed in rubles, as we said last year, because I think your total commitment to Putin Russia is already becoming dangerous for Hungary. You have repeatedly pointed out that this is the reason why Russia should be so collided, because safe and long-term gas supply is the most important thing for us, and that this will be guaranteed by the Russians. Let's see how this case is at the moment. This case, at the moment, is that Russia has said that through Ukraine it does not want to transport gas to much of nothing. Now we have the opportunity to go to, say, Turkey or Greece or do something with Azerbaijani gas, but the point is, I don't know what gas pipelines are for. Do you think he'll come from there on a donkey? I know that you really wanted the South Stream, but I'm asking you if it wouldn't have been better to start insulation this country. By the way, Századvég Gazdaságkutató Zrt. He also felt that about half of our energy consumption could be saved if Hungary could be properly isolated. For this reason, it is worth heating the Hungarian streets with Russian gas. I don't know who it's a big deal for, but not for us, that's for sure. Plus, there's our strategic gas reservoirs. They came into the hands of the Hungarian state so that they could provide us with a calm, warm winter. Instead, what we see is that Russian gas is stored there on a wage. What do you mean? In addition, which is particularly painful, you do not even pay attention to giving the most basic gestures. Not too long ago, when the crisis was at issue, the representatives of the governments of the region took a meeting in the EU, Hungary sent an unauthorized minister to this meeting, thus practically pushing the Russians into the water. However, when it comes to Paks enlargement, they are very careful to have the right authority; to quote you: to work day and night on contracts that will be thoroughly encrypted so that even my grandchildren will not know exactly what the taxpayers' money is being spent on. The Prime Minister said a few days ago that, after the fall of Nabucco and now the South Stream, a new plan for energy security will now have to be drawn up. Dear Minister, Isn't it too late to start thinking about what the alternative is for us? Did you really just realize that Putin Russia is not a reliable economic partner and not a reliable partner in general? Do you know what you'll do when the Paks expansion is over? Or are you going to start working on a new strategy in this situation? When are you gonna start acting like EU leaders? Thank you.
u2014-12-16-79	I now give the floor to Minister John Lazarus.
u2014-12-16-80	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak today with regard to the South Stream and the relationship with Russia. Today's government's most important national policy objective is to guarantee Hungary's independence now and in the coming decades. We think it's the 21st. The biggest Hungarian challenge of the first decade of the century is how the country can preserve its sovereignty and independence against Russia, the East or the West, against the United States of America. The country is not for sale, neither the Russians nor the United States of America - this is the fundamental thesis of Hungarian foreign policy at the moment. This question is closely linked to your unexplained interpellation as to whether energy security, energy, has a role to play in the independence of the country. Yeah, I do. But let us be clear: Hungary is acting as a European leader, acting as a member of the European Union, because the situation in Hungary must be resolved, Hungary has faced the situation of having to turn to Brussels, given that in the last ten years the European Union has not helped Hungary to achieve the gas independence of Hungary, and it is not only through the Ukrainian pipeline that gas can be delivered to Hungary. The European Union has not created Nabucco and has prevented the South Stream. It was not Hungary or Russia that prevented the South Stream, it was not Serbia, it was not Bulgaria, it was not the participating countries, it was the European Commission. The European Union has a serious responsibility for Hungary's supply of gas to a Ukrainian pipeline located in a war zone at the moment, just as the United States of America has done nothing to enable Central Europe, not only Hungary, but also other countries, to share the supply of gas and to use more alternative sources. On the other hand, what did the government do? First, we tried to separate ourselves from the Ukrainian gas pipeline. This experiment failed regarding the South Stream, but Hungary was first involved in the Nabucco project, which was also blocked by the Westerners. I would like to note that, in parallel, Germany has made sure that it builds a northern pipeline and supplies gas to itself. Central Europe has been left here, vulnerable, not for the first time in its history, and I believe that the western powers have a heavy responsibility. I would be happy if your relations with the European Parliament were to take account of this in Brussels. Please help your country by raising your voice not only in Budapest, but also in Brussels, or perhaps when you go to the US Embassy, you will ask the agent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who? You've been there many times...]] My second comment would be that, contrary to your statement, Hungary has done a lot for the country's energy independence, as they have supported the implementation of the North-South current, created the Slovak-Hungarian gas pipeline, created the Slovak-Romanian gas pipeline and created the Hungarian-Croatian gas pipeline. I would like to say that in the case of the Hungarian-Croatian and the Hungarian-Romanian gas pipeline, the European Commission has done nothing to allow gas to come to Hungary from Romania and Croatia; Romania and Croatia have professionally sabotaged the bi-directionalisation of the pipelines and the built-up networks. Brussels has not given us any help, but has criticized us. As to the fact that the Russians are storing gas in Hungary - they are storing gas, sorry for the language error - who is this gas being stored in Hungary? Of course, the gas is stored for Hungary in Hungary, in which we do not have to hold any budgetary resources as far as possible. Hungary is able to help Serbia, if necessary, if the gas runs out in Serbia, because Serbia is the only place available from Hungary. [[13.00]] If this is a gas purchase, I would like to make a comment, Mr President: we are buying gas from the person who provides gas to us at the best price and who can bring it to the country. It doesn't matter if it's Russian or American. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interjection at the same place: Bravo!]]
u2014-12-16-81	I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-82	Dear Minister, Well, I think I got off relatively cheap, probably because it's Christmas. Last time we talked, he couldn't decide whether I was a CIA agent or a KGB agent. For a man who's now quite civilized, he's been able to answer. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] Look, there's something we agree on. It is that sovereignty and independence are the most important. What we do not agree on, however, is how to achieve this. Dear Minister, As long as there is such corruption in the country, Hungary will not be able to defend itself on the international stage. [[Intercoms, constant noise in the pro-government benches. The speech on the ground is hardly understandable.]] The country must be isolated and not isolated. I think that it should not be pointed at the European Union after their second term is now two thirds. Dear Minister, Did the Union forbid you to build wind power plants? Did the Union forbid you to isolate this country? Wasn't there enough money to sell CO2 quotas, for example? Dear Minister, Did the Union drive you into the Paks project and tell you to take a loan from Putin that we'll never be able to pay? Dear Minister, I can't accept that answer. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]] [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]]
u2014-12-16-83	Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 117 votes in favour, 18 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Németh Szilárd, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:.Hungarian households pay the second minimum for electricity and natural gas in Europe. How much money do Hungarian families save before Christmas thanks to the reduction of the rent? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-16-84	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the civilian government has made it clear that its decisions and actions are intended to support the Hungarian families. However, I would like to highlight one of the most significant of the many positive measures, the policy of cuts in overhead.Until 2010, Hungarian consumers experienced that socialist-free democrat governments had them pay Europe's second highest electricity price and the highest retail gas price. Due to the series of price increases, foreign state-owned parent companies took nearly 1100 billion HUF extra profit out of the pockets of Hungarian families until 2010. However, the second Orbán government's reduction programme announced in autumn 2012 significantly reduced the burden on retail consumers. Since January 2013, the total price of nine public services has decreased significantly on several occasions. Nearly a third of the retail gas prices, more than a quarter of electricity and more than 23 percent of district heating prices have been reduced. In addition, there was a minimum reduction of 10 per cent in fees for shipments of waste, chimney sweeping, drinking water, snorkeling, bottled gas and sewerage services. Dear Secretary of State, It is now safe to say that while Hungarian consumers were hit by Europe's most expensive gas and electricity charges a few years ago, Hungarian families pay the second lowest gas and electricity charges across Europe in autumn 2014. We could not have achieved significant results in this without the protection of the policy of reductions and without full cooperation. Not only did Hungarian families sign 2.5 million signatures, but in 2014 they believed in the policy of reducing the rent three times. The government and Fidesz-KDNP will continue to stand for the safety of Hungarian families and intend to continue their policy of reducing overhead in 2015. Dear Secretary of State, Thanks to a series of reductions in the last period, this is confirmed by our economic indicators, there has been significant savings for Hungarian consumers. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much savings we have made for consumers before Christmas in our decisions on the reduction of the rent. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-85	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-12-16-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, following up on one of the most important issues in this country, The government has helped all people in a tangible way by reducing the retail consumer prices of electricity, gas and district heating in a uniform manner, without band boundaries, in several steps. The need for this measure was justified by the fact that families had to pay extremely high overhead costs in the region, as well as on the average of the European Union. A comprehensive energy market analysis carried out by the European Commission in 2012 concluded that, measured at purchasing power parities, Hungary's retail customers of 27 Member States paid for the second highest gas and electricity prices in the second half of 2011. This is why the government has decided to fundamentally change the situation and significantly reduce the burden on retail consumers, which also significantly improves the level of household energy prices in European comparison. We have achieved this goal. For an average retail consumer, the reduction in end-user prices for natural gas results in savings of approximately HUF 55 thousand per year and for electricity of HUF 30 thousand per year. Families can only save 85 thousand HUF per year in these two areas, thanks to the government's reduction measures. The savings of district heating customers vary due to different district heating prices per municipality, but are the same in scale as the savings of natural gas consumers. In addition, as of 1 July 2013, we also reduced fees for water and sewerage services, shipments of waste, chimney sweeps and LPG. As a result, the annual savings of an average consumer reach HUF 100,000. In addition to the reduction in costs, thanks to the transformation of the gas price regulation in December 2010, an additional annual savings of HUF 100 thousand were made by an average consumer by early 2010. Thanks to the government's measures, consumers have saved over a thousand billion forints in recent years. As a result of this reduction, the level of energy prices paid by Hungarian households also improved significantly in European comparison. According to the statistics published by the Hungarian Energy Office, the second cheapest of the capitals of the European Union is the average prices of natural gas and electricity expressed in euro in Budapest. The reduction also had a positive impact on the development of the previously accumulated backlogs. The population's total outflow over 30 days decreased from HUF 95 billion to HUF 75 billion by around 26 percent. The number of electricity consumers with backlogs over 30 days decreased from 837 thousand to 540 thousand, gas consumers from 548 thousand to 338 thousand, and district heating consumers from 162 thousand to 126 thousand. I think these figures are particularly convincing for Hungarian society and for you before Christmas. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their special attention. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-87	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-88	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer, of course I accept. You are absolutely right in saying or suggesting the data you have published here in Parliament that, although poverty has not been solved, the reduction has been most helpful to the poorest, the socially disadvantaged. All of this how? Low inflation, virtually zero percent inflation in the country for a year and a half. This has brought real income growth for families, with more money to spend than families. I think it speaks for itself, because it shows an increase in the sense of family safety and the opportunity that has not been used for years. [[13.10]] But if we talk here before Christmas, we've just made a decision on Sunday's opening hours. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Closing!]] In which we emphasized these four Advent Sundays. Recent data on silver Sunday shopping show [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that this many people have never bought in markets and shopping malls has never left so much money in markets and shopping malls, and this is also the characteristic indicator for purchases per capita. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-89	Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with the title "The atom is not a toy." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-16-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, It can now be concluded that the Orbán-Putin pact on Paks enlargement is based on lies, and that the Paks expansion is only a private matter for the Fidesz economy. You lied about the fact that Paks enlargement is the only solution to Hungary's energy supply in the future. You lied when you said that this issue had already been decided in 2009, because the parliamentary decision only authorised you to examine this possibility. They lied about having studies to prepare for enlargement, because we still don't see them. Orbán lied here in Parliament when he said that an international tender would be launched. State Secretary András Aradszki lied here in Parliament a few weeks ago when he said that there would be public procurement, there will be an open procedure, because according to the law you have tabled, this will not happen. And they lied when they said that sovereign debt would not be affected by this borrowing, because it would affect it. And they also lied about the fact that this electricity charge should not be paid to Hungarian people; if not in electricity, but in tax form. Dear Minister, The Paks expansion based on the Orbán-Putin pact concluded by the exclusion of competition on the basis of the Soviet-Hungarian interstate treaty in 1966 is based not only on lies, but also, in our view, on breaking the law. Your supervised MVM Paks II. Zrt. on 9 December, he signed the three implementation agreements of the enlargement project by concluding the arbitration procedure - or we do not know, because we do not know this contract - or he does not conclude it, even though the international treaty itself, the Orbán-Putin pact, is about the need to conclude an arbitration procedure. If this is the case in this contract, this contract is illegal, and this provision of the contract is null and void, since both the laws on Hungarian national assets and arbitration rule out arbitration in respect of national property. The amount of data that arises in the implementation of these implementation agreements is considered to be national data assets and should therefore not be subject to arbitration. We therefore believe that these treaties are illegal either because they violate the Orbán-Putin Act, which the Parliament has adopted, or because they violate the laws on Hungarian national property or arbitration, because your Prime Minister and your Ministry have consistently stated and have stipulated by law that arbitration cannot act on the issue of Hungarian property. I am asking you, Minister, how could the company under your ownership sign an illegal contract. Did you know that implementation agreements were against the law? How they want to build a nuclear power plant [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] If the legislation in force is not complied with? Will they want to adapt the plans to the blocks they've made? Please answer my questions. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-91	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-12-16-92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The Member came to me with a rather harsh interpellation in which he asked about the capacity maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The reason why I am surprised at Viktor Orbán's rating on the Prime Minister and his rating on the government is because yesterday you met Prime Minister Viktor Orbán at the European High Committee meeting, where European affairs were discussed before the European Council. If you are so brave, and if you have so many problems with the expansion and maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, then why didn't you go there with confidence to Viktor Orbán and lie it down in front of everyone? [[Zoltán Pride: That wasn't the topic! Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: The time will come!]] I suppose you need courage for such an interpellation, for you have just been a fellow Member, István Józsa, who broke a few billion from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in recent years. [[Intercoms.]] He sat behind you to support you, and to provide you with the right background and support. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] This is my first answer to whether Fidesz has any financial interests in the current or future operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; for now we see the interests of MSZP at close range, since István Józsa did not deny that he was an expert himself and was very pleased that his companies were commissioned from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I do not promise that this will continue in the future, so that is what I can tell you about the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Defiance.]] Not even because I would like to inform the Parliament that the government has decided to request the assistance of international managers for the Paks I Nuclear Power Plant, the nuclear power plant currently operating. We will entrust an international bounty hunter company, and in order to ensure that everything is transparent and transparent, we will entrust it to Western managers, as far as possible in the majority, to operate part I of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, currently operating, because we consider that a number of contracts need to be reviewed and operating costs reduced. My second point, Mr President, is that you forget that such an investment in nuclear power plants, maintenance of capacity, is subject to full compliance with international nuclear power plant rules, nuclear regulations and control of international organisations. The Hungarian government cannot do anything on its own due to nuclear energy agreements and international treaties concluded in recent decades. Firstly, on 14 January the European Commission agreed in writing to the agreement between President Putin and Viktor Orbán following the notification procedure. In the hands of this written document, Viktor Orbán signed the international agreement. You're talking about secrets, while the Parliament passed two laws on the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It's almost ridiculous, it's all written down in the law. If you are the 2014 II. It would have justified reading the law - I know that at the end of the year everyone, the government and the representatives too, but they should have read the law anyway - it includes how this matter could get, in what cases and under what conditions it could be brought to arbitration. On the other hand, we are in constant consultation with the European Commission. Euratom will have to contribute to fuel procurement in the future, so the contract will become effective with the signature of Euratom, and on the other hand, the European Commission's Directorate-General for Competition will also continue to consult the Hungarian Government and the notification will take place. I can reassure you, Mr President, from the point of view of the investment - an investment that will undoubtedly be an important pillar of Hungarian economic growth in the next ten years, as we are talking about spending EUR 12.5 billion in Hungary - we must spend every euro of this investment under an open procurement procedure on the basis of the European Commission's decision in force and the legislation of the European Union. To say that it is illegal, to say that it would be a secret procedure, is a bad faith for you, for you, who have begun preparing this investment. Undoubtedly, in the preparatory documents, in the archives of the Prime Minister's Office [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] it says that you have also negotiated with the Americans and have also negotiated with the French; in comparison, the Russians have given the most favourable offer and that is why the Hungarian government has decided to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-93	I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Yesterday's meeting was a closed session. I didn't know there was any reference here in public. I would like to say that it wasn't the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but I also told Prime Minister Viktor Orbán that the MSZP was open to dialogue on all matters affecting the interests of the Hungarian nation and Hungary, but it will never be open if only and only the interests of the governing party are on the table. I would also like to say that you referred to my fellow Member, although he did not, to my knowledge, buy his child an apartment of 70 million. And what you've told me about publicity and openness, I can't accept it, because implementation agreements are secret. As your government commissioner has said, you do not believe that they belong to the public, and we can only clarify this question if the agreements are illegal or not, if you make them public. Do it! Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa: Publicity! Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2014-12-16-95	The congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 102 votes to 20, with 8 abstentions, the Parliament accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Defence:. Dilettantism or intended disinformation: why is the CBI distorting? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[13.20]]
u2014-12-16-96	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Members of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Parliament are regularly informed by the Military National Security Service about developments in the Ukrainian crisis. In a report dated 24 November, the KNBSZ wrote in connection with an interview with the Finnish President Sauli Niinistö in the Washington Post that the Finnish head of state said that the Russian intervention in Ukraine is a warning to the country and one of the possibilities of preventing Russian aggression is the possible accession of Finland to NATO. Niinistö stated in relation to the Russian airspace violations committed in recent months that the Finnish Air Force had given an adequate response to the Russian provocation by responding adequately to the Finnish Air Force and by deploying emergency aircraft to prevent further airspace breaches. The report therefore states that the Finnish President draws a parallel between the situation of Ukraine and Finland and calls for combative action against the alleged Russian aggression and provocation, and, learning from the example of Ukraine, sees the only defence guarantee of his country in NATO membership. Minister, we have read the interview referred to in the Washington Post, but we have not seen a trace of what the CBI has put in the mouth of the Finnish President. In the entire interview text, the expression "Russian aggression" does not even appear; the word "provokation" is exclusively about the journalist's introductory question. Niinistö has only noted in relation to Russian airspace violations in recent weeks that every step of Russia is being followed, noticed, noted, and thought very carefully about what it really means. Finland also continuously increases its military spending, provides its own protection, and, as part of the West, NATO's partner, keeps coordinating its actions with its Western allies. With regard to the NATO membership of neutral Finland and the protection guarantees resulting from it, Niinistö strongly states: although NATO membership was the subject of a dilemma for Finland twenty years ago, this cannot be a timely issue today, since Finland's NATO membership today would undoubtedly harm Russia's relations with Finland, and although NATO membership in the theoretical sense is an option, it can only be assessed in terms of the country's balance policy. Minister, you are either doing a completely unappreciable job when you are taking over reports from partner services using energy to desinform Western allies uncritically and uncontrollably, or you - and this is the most serious opportunity - are deliberately disinforming the Members of Parliament in the event of events related to the crisis in Ukraine, and in doing so, they are not even afraid of manipulating statements by foreign leaders. Please inform me of what is behind the gross counterfeiting of the specialist service and what you intend to do to ensure that Members are informed and disinformation is avoided. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-97	I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2014-12-16-98	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm forced to reject the title of your interpellation, and I'm asking you to turn to the military national security service in the future with greater respect for the soldiers, officers and petty officers. The KNBSZ shall inform the competent committees of Parliament on any matter which falls within its competence on a monthly basis, usually at closed meetings. It also shows that the military secret service supports your work in every way, and so does your work in person, Congressman. The same purpose is served by the report referred to in its interpellation, which is sent to a very narrow circle, a total of 6 Members of Parliament, i.e. six Members of Parliament. By the way, there are no rules binding on the Military National Security Service. Of course, if you are unhappy with this additional information source, you will have one word and no more summary reports. But let's get to the specific report. As you are perfectly aware, the report referred to will process open, accessible information so that it is clear to everyone: press news. In the introductory part of the paper, it is even drawn to the attention of the Member and of all readers:. In the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, both parties are engaged in intensive information warfare, in which the written and electronic press publish a number of disinformation, and therefore open source information needs to be handled with reservations. The content displayed does not reflect the official position of the Military National Security Service. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, As far as the content is concerned, the authors of the report feel vulnerable to the article "Washington Post" Finland in the midst of the Russian provocations, i.e. an article, as well as an interview by the Washington Post and the MTI report on it. So three different sources in three sentences, which correspond to the content of the news in referenced media, both in general and in some of their elements. You read the interview alone, so you easily came to the wrong conclusion. You should have read the other two materials, Congressman. The report of 24 November therefore correctly trained what happened and what was published. Let us sum it up, Mr President: you refer to a narrowly distributed substance in front of the Parliament's public opinion, in which it is specifically indicated to you in order to treat the information with reservations and which, by the way, does not reflect the official position of the author. And you're going to attack the military secret service here. Then how is it now, honourable Member? Who's gonna disinform the public here? You wouldn't happen to be doing this, would you? And who would want to do that? [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among other things: Yes!]] By the way, I wish you a blessed Christmas and a happy New Year. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-99	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-100	Unfortunately, I cannot accept Mr Minister's dramatic response, because if someone reads these reports, they will be forced to conclude that it is not an isolated phenomenon at all, but almost every time we receive these reports. [[Csaba Hende: You will never get one again, Congressman.]] Then we'll find slides and disinformation. It also does not excuse its creators from writing that these reports may have been prepared for disinformation. [[Csaba Hende: You don't get any more, we talked about it!]] They're not one-off, they're tendential. And there are, indeed, a number of publications to which this report refers, but they are still scissored in such a way as to put it in Niinistő's mouth. You can do three things, Minister. You can apologize to Members and decision-makers who are misled by these. He apologizes to the President of Finland or to the embassy because this is also a diplomatic scandal. And he also apologizes to CBI staff who serve as a tool for your political goals and tools in your political hands. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] I can't accept your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-101	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 102 votes in favour, 13 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the government help the needy and the homeless during the winter period, and what long-term plans do they have in the area? It's an address. Congressman Vejkey has the floor.
u2014-12-16-102	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Winter also came this year, and the cold again poses an increased threat to our homeless countrymen on the streets. Minimising this increased threat has always been a major challenge for the current Hungarian government. In addition to reducing the total population's costs, the government will also provide substantial assistance to homeless and socially deprived people in the winter of 2014. The package of measures relating to homelessness in the preceding period, such as the "Fulled Street" programme, the Soul Program or the "Back off the Street" programme, will be complemented by an operational programme from this year, co-financed by the European Union. [[13.30]] The operational programme to support deprived persons in the 2014-2020 EU budget period addresses a specific chapter on improving the situation of homeless people and reducing their numbers. The programme focuses not only on the immediate correction of the acute situation, but also on a longer-term consolidation of the situation. The Hungarian State intends to help our fallen fellow citizens by extending the eviction moratorium, which started in 2012 and continues to this day, as well as the social firing programme, which allows the supply of winter fuel to those in need. The development of the asset park for social services is also a significant relief, enabling them to perform their tasks more effectively and more precisely. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State how the government is preparing to protect homeless people with the arrival of winter, and what opportunity it offers them against the cold, and what the operational programme to support people in need contains. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-16-103	I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2014-12-16-104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think we need to use every single means of fighting homelessness. Thus, it is important that emphasis is placed on the first steps, the treatment of homelessness, prevention, prevention, the care of homeless people, and the continuous search for ways out. Government policy places particular emphasis on all three issues. With regard to care, I can tell you that there are nearly ten thousand accommodations available nationally and annually. This means essentially two forms of supply: a night shelter and a temporary hostel. More than 5,000 seats can be found in Budapest. In addition, it is important to mention in the winter period the additional 1500 accommodation spaces available. These are temporary capacities, which can accommodate increased winter loads, and use them. These are accommodation services. In addition, the capacity of the living room is 7,000 seats, which means more than 3,800 seats in Budapest. I would like to say here that from 1 January we would like to solve the problem that is on the administrative side of the problems caused by the user's register in the case of daytime warmers. This multiple-use problem has been eliminated. In addition, the supply system includes 228 places for rehabilitation and 460 places for homeless homes. In addition, there are 83 national services that do street social work to help homeless people and thus help them access services. Homeless people are provided in normative-funded accommodations throughout the year, which is HUF 8.2 billion a year. This is accompanied by additional resources for increased winter consumption, almost HUF 400 million this year, which is not on the norm, but by tender. It is a very important development this year that we have tried to write this tender sooner than ever before, so the homeless organisations have come to this source sooner than ever before, they have indeed been able to prepare for the winter, and there has been no threat of preparing for the increased tasks of the winter crisis. We'll do the same next year. The situation and needs of homeless people who stay in the public area during the cold period are a good example of an intersectoral, inter-professional type of assistance. Here the health and social sector must intervene together. We will continue to enhance that kind of inter-professional character in the future. An important form of appearance is the operation of dispatch services, which receive signals 24 hours a day. Another important element is the operation of crisis cars. It is therefore important to reduce homelessness, which affects not only homeless people living on the streets, but also the elderly, lonely people, so it is important to draw attention, to the attention of local authorities and to the attention of local communities, so that they pay greater attention to their communities. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Lonely and old people, let the warning systems work that can help the fallen. I think that the aid fund you mentioned, the food package programme, can effectively serve winter preparation and help people in need in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-16-105	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-12-16-106	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. On the one hand, the government's intention to help homeless people with more measures than ever before in the winter period has become evident in its response, turning more than HUF 9 billion to homelessness. Thank you. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In his reply, it was also evident that the government was paying close attention to the people who were left without support, besides the homeless. Mr State Secretary, I thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-107	Welcome. The Member accepted the Secretary of State's reply, so there is no need for a vote. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, I am very pleased that we have completed the last interpellation, but the work is still going on. László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: Bridge? Is the government preparing for another massacre? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Last week, the news went off like a bomb that the government was trying to sabotage those who wanted to use the roads to avoid big cities. This will be the case for those who do not want to pollute the air of our cities, but want to travel bypasses. After this plan came to light, virtually a total fire broke out on the government. It turns out that the proposal is not drawn up as usual from you, we do not know whether each county will have a separate sticker, if this proposal is implemented, we do not know exactly which sections will be paid. That's something they say every day. Now it seems that the roads avoiding Budapest and rural cities would be payable, but that order can vary from day to day from hour to hour. We don't know if we're gonna have to pay to use the Megyeri Bridge. For the bridge built by the Bajnai government, which connects Békésmegyer and Cabbage County. It is worth knowing that the bridge customs of the Megyeri Bridge can cause huge traffic to rain on Szentendrei Street and Árpád Bridge. This happens when the M0 ring has not been rebuilt in northern Buda and the construction of the Esztergom railway is delayed. Those P+R parking spaces are delayed or cancelled in accordance with Annex III. in the district, which would allow the additional traffic of the Megyeri Bridge to be diverted if the customs duties were introduced. It says chaos that you have consulted the mayors concerned, but as a result of this consultation, the Ministry and others have said otherwise. The MSZP has submitted a proposal for a decision to prevent this bridge duty, this road face. I would like to ask Minister when to withdraw the proposals containing the bridge duty and the road face. Will the MSZP's proposal for a decision be supported, which concerns the fact that where it has not yet been paid, there will be no need for a bridge duty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And pay for the road? Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-16-109	Thank you very much. Sándor Czomba has the floor. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2014-12-16-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With toll charges, the budget receives a direct income of nearly HUF 100 billion, which is not paid by domestic but foreign road users, and therefore all measures need to be examined and examined in the light of this. With regard to the new system, as is already known, there are a number of requirements and requirements for the road network, in particular for motorway use. One of the most important things is to ensure the conditions for safe transport. So it is in our primary interest that motorways are used by both foreign and domestic private people and businesses. If the question is that, by the way, Miskolc and Debrecen or Kecskemét and Budapest, or Székesfehérvár and Budapest, because my job opportunities are so provided, then in the current system I had to pay the full toll, while if we introduce the county system, this is practically possible from 5-10 or 15 thousand forints. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about figures and amounts, which is an important and important element, we also need to be clear that we have an elemental interest in using motorways as many as possible in order to ensure safe transport. And those who use these sections as transit traffic, especially foreigners - and the motorway is burdened with significantly different weight limits and different road use problems - take their share out of this respect. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Nagy applauds.]]
u2014-12-16-111	Congressman, you have a minute.
u2014-12-16-112	Thank you very much for the floor. The situation of the former Secretary of State is very difficult, since you are concerned with training and employment in the government, but I respect that you have tried to answer this question, despite the fact that we have not been answered whether the Government supports the MSZP's proposal for a decision, which is about not imposing a bridge duty and a road face where no payment has been made. That's what the MSZP's proposal is about. What you have answered is worth a few words. However, I think that these roads and bridges are not primarily used by foreigners. My apologies. Once again, I can give you my own constituency as an example. If you want to go from Frog County to Cabbage County, you can use the Megyer Bridge. This citizen will have to pay a bridge tax on the Megyeri Bridge. The foreigner who enters, let's say, the country's western border for tourism purposes, uses it in the first place. So I think that you should try to answer my questions, Mr Secretary, and we will surely get closer. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-16-113	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-114	Thank you very much. In Hungary, the total free network is 344 km wide for cars, of which 162 km is located in Pest county. I quote this sentence for a reason, because most of the problems are mainly concentrated around Budapest and Pest county in this respect, as it is particularly beneficial for rural cities, as I have just mentioned, or it may be beneficial to introduce a county toll system. As far as the use of the Megyeri Bridge is concerned, you have certainly seen that there is no final government decision, so I would like to ask the honourable Member to wait for the government's opinion on this. Thank you.
u2014-12-16-115	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative of President Novak, Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: - Third, what do you think of the luxury pool tax, which you demanded in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa, as a member of the rich government? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Mikola István State Secretary to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. Here.
u2014-12-16-116	Mr President, Péter Szijjártó could cut this issue short, and I don't really understand why he wants to keep it afloat for a year, but I am willing to give him this opportunity, so I would like to wait and give him the opportunity to explain himself personally. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-117	I get it, I get it. In this case, Honourable Parliament, the Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Since the Member did not accept the person of the responding Member, another betterman has the opportunity to ask his own immediate question now. This belongs to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Jobbik's representative wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "What is due to companies is not to the people? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, as a response to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity. He'll take it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-118	Mr President, Dear House, It can be seen that in Hungary, when a company or its manager is in trouble, he can have various relief solutions, and he may even be exempt from paying part of his debts. We do not say that it is right, but in terms of bankruptcy, there is certainly room for relief. At the same time, there are over 120,000 contracts and family members behind them, for whom we can already talk about falling or unrepayable contracts and for whom there is no help under any circumstances. Jobbik is of the opinion that the introduction of repeatedly mentioned family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy should immediately provide assistance to these affected families, in such a way that, of course, they can repay their due debts, but clearly only as much as is justified, and in the meantime, a free-of-charged family helper should help them renegotiate their credit and, if possible, with free retrainings to return them to the labour market. It can be seen that our idea is not about the KDNP's previous suggestion that a bankrupt would tell the head of the family what they could spend on, whether they could get the elderly family member's treatment or the child's schooling. No! Jobbik would not interfere with what the family spends their money on, but it would provide such a lighter opportunity for all Hungarian compatriots left on the side of the road, which would at last make them feel that, in addition to the state and the supervisory system, they are not left entirely by the political system. So we want to provide and guarantee an opportunity that can provide an irreplaceable lifeline for these 120,000 families and family members. It is therefore quite clear that in the paradise of multi-enterprises and banks, this option would also be available to people. What is in question is what is the government's position on the introduction of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy after a party campaigned with it in 2010, it was promised in 2012, and it has not been done to date. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-119	Thank you very much. Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary is next. Here.
u2014-12-16-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The problem is complex. Bankruptcy in itself is only a protected period for creditors, but in addition, a solution should be developed to facilitate settlement with financial institutions. It will set up a public support network which, as a supporter of the debtor, is involved in contacting credit institutions and provides training and employment policy support to those in need. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party has submitted its proposal to the competent ministries of the government, as well as to the Hungarian National Bank responsible for the supervision of the financial institutions and the stability of the financial system, who are currently examining the proposals of KDNP experts and carrying out the necessary analyses. The most important task of family bankruptcy, initiated by KDNP, is to support families, as the most important pillars of society, in the event of payment difficulties. That's what we need for family bankruptcy. The aim of the package of proposals will be to reduce the crisis situation of families while allowing creditors to have the best chance of reimbursing their claims. It is important for the proposal to provide assistance to indebted residential groups who are unable to make use of the State debt relief measures introduced so far, either for some reason, or those measures have proved insufficient for them to restore solvency. Debt settlement and protection of debtors' interests can be achieved by regulation that consists of several steps. I'll present these to you in one minute at my disposal.
u2014-12-16-121	Congressman, you have one minute.
u2014-12-16-122	Mr President, Dear House, I would ask the Secretary of State to take each other more seriously, at least a little bit. This is an election promise made in 2010 [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] , 18 May 2010: the first promise of family bankruptcy. 27 June 2012: press conference on the same thing; 15 April 2014: Hungary live, News TV. For how many more years will the Hungarian families be promised that they will be given any level of assistance? Only during a campaign period and once in 2012, when there is no responsibility? How long do we have to wait for what is due to the companies, to the multinationals, to your strategic partners, because you did not sign with the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, but with the multinational companies... - to give it to the Hungarian families, those in difficulty? In my inn class, a lady came in, who now owes 470 grand on her 300,000 loan by paying for seven years, and paid more than a million for this debt. [[13.50]] There is no legal environment that would justify this and make it sustainable. So we should put a consumer raid on the whole issue. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But in the meantime, it is their duty to provide at least one lifeline through family bankruptcy for those affected. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-123	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-124	Honourable Congressman, I was prepared to give you a detailed description of our proposal, but rather, since you attacked us by not doing anything, I would like to tell you what steps the government has taken so far. The legislative results of the parties that have been governing since 2010 between 2011-14: debt rehabilitation, i.e. the retention of solvency in ongoing contracts, but on the other hand, the increase in the amount of late debts can also be stopped during the implementation of the laws adopted. The finalisation of the concept of a private bankruptcy procedure has been delayed because it was necessary to prevent the creation of laws which would result in debtors being repaid, on the basis of unfair consumer credit agreements, the amount with which credit institutions were unduly enriched. The legislator chose the right way to spare creditors the costs of individual litigation and the risks of proof. I hope I will still have the opportunity to explain the rest of our proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-125	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, Member András Schiffer, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long is the blanket worth? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts his identity.
u2014-12-16-126	Mr President, In view of the fact that Viktor Orbán is the greatest familiar with the proverbs, I am therefore obliged to wait for him with the answer. Thank you. [[János Lázár: Very wise!]]
u2014-12-16-127	I see. In this case, the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. In this case, another representative of the LMP will be given the opportunity to ask an immediate question, but I cannot announce too much diversity, because this Member is also Member Schiffer, a representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question for a change:, Will the spirit of the Fundamental Law appear to you? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. It is my duty to ask the congressman again - what is he saying now?
u2014-12-16-128	Given that, Mr President, in recent months, Prime Minister has entertained the great one on numerous occasions with various constitutional arguments, which is why I am obliged to wait for him to respond. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-129	Dear Parliament, In the spirit of pre-Christmas love, I would like to announce to you that the LMP Group has the opportunity to besiege the Government with an immediate question, and that this Member is not Mr András Schiffer, but Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, who wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, Have you lied to workers about the revision of the early retirement scheme? It's an address. Madam Member, the Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Czomba as Secretary of State to answer his urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] He accepts his identity. Madam Member, you have the floor.
u2014-12-16-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Lords of the Minister, Mr. Secretary of State! I did ask my question with a question mark at the end, but in a few minutes we will know whether the statement stops, i.e. whether the government has lied to the workers about reviewing the early retirement system or not. What I'm actually asking, Mr. Secretary of State, is what you've been doing on this case for the last two years. Because you said that when you practically led to early retirement pensions, you decided to withdraw them, turn them into benefits, to push the eligibility period by two years, and now, by December of this year, you will have a review system. To quote you in particular, this was the first step: it is justified, in the first place, an own-initiative review of the jobs currently granting early relief. The review can be carried out in two years and therefore the current system should be extended until its completion, until the end of 2014. The government has therefore made it quite clear that it has carried out this review in the last two years, developing a new system, which, although in a narrower context, maintains the possibility of age reduction. Now, what am I hearing from Secretary of State of Zomba? The exact opposite. He claims that the government's position has been clear since 2010, that they wish to pay a pension only after the age limit has been reached, and I quote further:. The government has already decided on the way out, but it is worth discussing other ways to help those working in a better health profession, but there can be no state involvement in solving the problem. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Here there are two statements against each other, the government's promise of two years ago and the current separation from all forms of age discount. Please tell me, Mr. Secretary, if this system has been developed in the last two years or has not been developed. When did they lie to the employees, two years ago, they're gonna do it, or now? And whether or not people with health problems can expect to experience retirement [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that they were damaged at some level, that they wouldn't get anything later? Thank you.
u2014-12-16-131	Mr Sándor Czomba has the floor. Here.
u2014-12-16-132	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to stress that the government made it clear and clear in 2010 that the pension system will be examined in a comprehensive and thorough manner. At the same time, we have made it quite clear that pensions can only be paid after the retirement age has been reached. Until 31 December 2011, the early retirement scheme was in place, and from 1 January 2012 the scheme became a pre-age benefit, which is an important change not only in its wording but also in its content. Indeed, in 2012, we discussed with the social partners that we would review the current more than 800 jobs - I repeat, 800 jobs - of which 70 percent concern state-owned companies and 62 percent concern those involved in public transport, i.e. bus drivers and other employees; otherwise, I say in parentheses in the world, there is no such thing. In fact, trade unions acknowledged that this system could not be maintained in this form, but the social partners wanted to maintain this early retirement scheme to a significant extent. The government examined the possibility that there might be a minimum common multiple in which, in terms of both employer's and employee's and government's roles, a substantial reduction could otherwise help maintain the early retirement scheme, but it was quite clear that the current early retirement pension system in this form is unsustainable, both from a labour market and from a budgetary point of view. And I'll be back in a minute if I can, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-133	Thank you very much for helping me with my work, but the congresswoman is coming in a minute. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-134	Dear Secretary of State, I know the story, the whole of Hungary knows it, and I didn't ask the government's position, and I also know we talked about it a lot in this House. You have violated a constitution, you have deprived these people of their acquired rights, and you have promised them that in some form the system will work here. You claim that such a system does not work in the world, but, Honourable Secretary of State, there is a system in place around the world when it comes to workers who pay with their health to work. You have to understand, these people are not gonna get away with getting to the normal retirement age, they're gonna get ruined early. Do the Fidesz-KDNP really want these people to be in unemployment care while they're at it, and then what are they gonna get, what are they gonna get, Mr. Secretary of State? Technically, he's not messing with me, understand that if he doesn't create such a system, he's practically messing with the whole country. These people have jobs that are needed in the national economy, and these people deserve to be thanked in some way for working for us, and I say again, they pay for their health. But then I understand that you lied in 2010. Well, then say that, and let's wrap this up. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But they're willing to do it. [[The president's ringing the bell. Laszlo Varju applauds: That's right! Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-12-16-135	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-136	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Anyone who has so far been entitled to an early retirement pension will continue, if he has gained three years after 15 years, then he will carry on this entitlement; one. With regard to miners, who have more than 25 years of employment, in the case of underground mines, you must know that the temporary mining allowance remains. Women have a 40-year-old benefit. And as I indicated earlier, there are jobs, I admit it, although the employer would have an obligation to provide healthy and safe working conditions, but there are jobs in which we can't do that at present, so it is worth thinking, if necessary, whether by working time discount or split job, by job sharing, as we have discussed today, even in a lighter job; think about - and there is this kind of thinking on the table - over the next period. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , but the institutionalised early retirement pension scheme (President bell ringing) We don't want to keep it up. [[14.00]]
u2014-12-16-137	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who is behind the tobacco industry demonstrations? It's an address. Minister Sándor Czomba has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-12-16-138	With respect to Christmas, I accept, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-139	I see. You have the floor.
u2014-12-16-140	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday morning, who looked from the Danube bank in Pest towards the lower quay in Buda, he saw a long coherent line of cars. It was not because of the tram construction work in Buda that was being built, but in the context of a demonstration that was supposed to be marked as a grassroots initiative by the movement of civilians concerned about their work. However, in this case, we had to look behind the event precisely for the purity of the genre of the demonstration. It was a question for us even then who the real organizers were, who could be behind this action. The person who took a closer look at the car line could see that cars from various tobacco companies were lining up. Yesterday, trade unions blocked half the road on the lower quay in Buda with the help of Hungarian tobacco companies' corporate cars. The Fidesz-KDNP fraction association aims to reduce smoking, as smoking causes invaluable damage to Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. In Hungary, nearly 22,000 people die every year as a result of smoking. It's like every year the country is smaller with a city the size of Mohács. In addition, the budget is heavily burdened by the harmful consequences of smoking, as the state spends more than 225 billion forints a year to cure smoking-related diseases. The establishment of the National Tobacco Distribution Center in May next year has led Philip Morris, British American Tobacco and Imperial, as they claim, to contribute to the League's action as an open and responsible company for employees' interests. Of course, we understand the demonstration of people who are concerned about their jobs, but we find it particularly outrageous that multinational companies are hiding behind the interests of their employees and even helping these types of demonstrations. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how you see from the direction of the government, who is behind the demonstrations, and what is the real interest in organizing. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-12-16-141	Mr Sándor Czomba has the floor. Here.
u2014-12-16-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, the more than four hundred vans on the wharf showed an impressive spectacle yesterday. Not everyone thought of that word in connection with the sight. And if your question is who is behind this, it is presumed that tobacco factories and tobacco wholesalers and their employees are behind it. It was quite clear to the Hungarian government, as you indicated, that smoking in general and smoking in particular of minors should be curbed. To this end, a number of measures have been taken from the government's side and their effects have already been shown to be God. Nevertheless, as long as smoking cannot be forced out, the question for Hungary is whether it will allow foreign or domestic companies to process tobacco products and put them in the distribution chain if this creates jobs in Hungary, as it has done. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in the event that this new company is formed, 1200 jobs are at risk. I think it will be worth talking about when this new company is formed, because this new company, even if it becomes a state, will need employees, a logistics network and a lot more, and in this context you will need to know the location and much more. So in Hungarian, I think that this may not only result in job losses, but also in job creation where appropriate, so let us not advance the risk of job losses for the time being. And the other thing that is very important is that tens of thousands of people with low school education work each year in connection with the tobacco industry, whose work we expect in the future.
u2014-12-16-143	The congressman has a rejoinder. Here.
u2014-12-16-144	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. As I mentioned in the introduction, I also see that, indeed, multinational corporations are behind the organisation here, and they are obviously really afraid of market failure. That they are talking about the loss of jobs, we can get used to it, because we all remember in this House that when we created a new law to protect our health, in which we significantly restricted the possibility of smoking, and even forbade it in restaurants, workplaces and all other closed rooms, we have come up with all sorts of calculations, namely restaurant businesses, obviously also under pressure from the tobacco lobby, and they have shown how many jobs will disappear, how many restaurants will close. Well, the result was quite the opposite, not only would restaurants have closed and not only reduced traffic, but also increased traffic, because they could provide much more cultural and healthier conditions. I think that is also the case in this case. In the case of BAT, the tobacco factory in Pécs, I find this action particularly interesting and incomprehensible, because thanks to today's parliamentary decision, it has received 2.5 billion tax incentives to protect jobs and the investment it has created in Pécs and to advance confidence in the next investments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-16-145	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-146	Thank you very much. It is indeed as the congressman mentions. It is strange for us, too, why, after such significant support, one company would think of showing and demonstrating. When it comes to job creation, the Hungarian government will continue to be a partner, as in the previous period, as I say once again, not only direct jobs, but also indirect jobs - which are even larger, of magnitude - are important to us, in areas and areas where unemployment is high anyway. So the partnership will continue. I am confident that we will be able to achieve mutual results in the next period, not within a demonstration framework, but at a negotiating table. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-16-147	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what are you afraid of, Minister? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, First of all, I'd like to thank you for inviting me to the Kehibe in the case of the Hortobágy Farmhouse. I wondered what the reason was. Looking into the documents, the details were that oligarchs took the land and destroyed decent family farmers on the ground using mafia-like methods. Reading the papers, they brought in another document describing why there is no need to do anything in this case, as described by one of the largest oligarchs of Fidesz, Zsolt Nyerges' friend Sándor Fazekas. Do you remember, fellow Members, what József Ángyán said? The country is in the hands of mob families, the Ministry is in the hands of mob families. Well, I figured that might be the reason. Then it seemed that the Minister did not know that he was going to beat his own prime minister with this case, who was badly lied to, since the Prime Minister said that he would not conclude a contract with controversial applicants, which the Kehi report explicitly refuted. Mr. Secretary. Clearly, then, farmers who have not won cannot be thrown off the land, because there is no way to know who will eventually own the land, and obviously the land cannot be a fraud. Then we called a committee to clarify what to do now. This committee has not been attended by you, the Ministry or any Fidesz congressman. And, you know, Minister, at this point, I'm very insecure. Then it is not clear whether the purpose of this Kehi report and the whole operation is to expose fraudsters or to protect the oligarchs associated with Fidesz with a failed report. Please clarify the situation.
u2014-12-16-149	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-150	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, First, let's start with how the investigation was ordered. The investigation was ordered because, among the walls of this house, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced on an opposition proposal that Kehi would request an investigation into the permanent lease and contract of use of the land announced by the Hortobágy National Park. So before you speak of Viktor Orbán, my fellow Member, before you speak of the Prime Minister and accuse him of lying, it is worth clarifying the facts that the orderer of the inquiry is the Prime Minister himself. [[14.10]] With regard to the inquiry ordered by the Prime Minister, you asked me what was going on with the inquiry, and I believe that I have made it available to all my fellow Members in compliance with the legal path and moral obligations. Not only you, but also another fellow Member, asked for an insight. In Kehi's practice, it is common that Kehi's findings are contested by the organisation under investigation or its maintainer, and I can give you a number of examples of this in the last 20 years. So there is nothing out of the ordinary about the Kehi investigation by Minister Sándor Fazekas' ministry [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] , the Ministry under his supervision did not agree with Kehi's findings. The law on Kehi regulates in detail what is the procedure in such a situation. The Kehi study has a substantial potential to respond to the portfolio, organisation or organisational unit under investigation, so the Ministry has until 31 January now the legal deadline to provide detailed reasons for the reports of the Kehi investigation and to formulate its maintenance. There are three parts of Kehi's meaning in essence, simplified. He approved part of the lease agreements that were announced - it would be worth talking about for the sake of fairness to the Member - and in the other part he said that there was no significant error in the result - let him talk about the extent to which the error did not affect the outcome - and he said in part that: [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the result affected by the error was obtained. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]]
u2014-12-16-151	The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2014-12-16-152	Minister, 28 percent is not a part, but almost a third. Minister, Norwegian civilians were examined in a month, and then criminal reports were made. Mr. Secretary, didn't they have any objections? Don't they have the right to negotiate? Only the Fidesz oligarchs office has the right to coordinate for six months and nothing happens while farmers are being driven off the land? ! Minister, you know what? Answer when TEK, the counter-terrorism center, will invade civilians, the National Fund of Land and the National Park of Hortobágy to seize and seize evidence of the Mafia activities linked to Fidesz... [[Interviews from Fidesz: Come on! Go ahead. L. Simon László: This will not be easy to describe.]] and Hortobágy National Park. Please answer that.
u2014-12-16-153	Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2014-12-16-154	My fellow Member gave up the work to the chief minutes, the description of the last few sentences will not be a simple task, but the house rules provide for this and contain rules. First of all, my dear fellow Member, you must have missed the fact that, in the context of a number of complaints, the police, supervised and managed by the current government, conducted investigations that led to indictments in the case of national parks following the conclusion of investigations. So accusing the government of abusing the law's right or the possibility of accusing the government of not acting would be a serious mistake, since there are certain procedures in the case of Bükk National Park and Hortobágy National Park. With regard to Kehi... [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] I understand, in part, the lack of patience of my proud fellow Member, but please let me finish the answer. Thank you very much. So the rules of procedure for Kehi are laid down by law, Congressman, which you can learn about and access to data. The government has provided you with this, too. I'm asking you to respect that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-155	Thank you very much. And they're also helping each other's work. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:.Hungarian reality lying about American crime? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congressman: do you accept? [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2014-12-16-156	Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to draw your attention to some of the worrying issues concerning Mátraverebély-Szentkút. This is a village where, in virtually all the years, the pine tree next to the settlement could be swept down without obstruction, where burglaries are commonplace, where a day's absence is enough, and the tile disappears from the family house. The settlement is terrorized by local criminals who come from the ranks of the minority almost one by one. Of course, it shouldn't be like this. The Franciscan church is situated in an area of unparalleled beauty. There are legends and wonders attached to this. It is also a popular going-away destination, where believers, professionalism, hiking trips, and billion - dollar renovations come from beyond our borders. From a tourist point of view, in Nógrád, only Ravenstone could compete with Mátraverebély-Szentkút, but while the properties of the latter are sold, the land and family houses in Mátraverebély are unsellable. There are signs to inform tourists and pilgrims arriving here: we must pay greater attention to our values here. In addition to the busy, illuminated main road through the village, one of the houses in the sales line could be stripped down as locust walks, covering pots, windows and bricks as well. From the village who could do so, he moved or moved his elderly relatives who lived alone. There are families and companies that are organized for crime, with whom the policemen of the neighbouring Bátony tere are afraid to mess with. In addition, the threat of physical violence on Mátraverebély is so high that in many cases the locals do not dare to turn to the authorities. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to seeing what you intend to do to eliminate the ill-fated conditions at Mátraverebély-Szentkút. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-157	Thank you very much. Mr Károly Kontra has the floor. Here.
u2014-12-16-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to reiterate before this House that the police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals in order to ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property, public order, public security and maintenance. That's what the police do in Mátraverebély and its area. On 25 September 2013, the National Police Commissioner ordered increased police control and increased police presence for five counties in north-east Hungary, according to which, in cooperation with the local government, he provided 24-hour presence and control in the municipalities. As a result, not us, but the inhabitants of the settlement, the leaders of the settlement have found that public safety has improved in Mátraverebély. That doesn't mean all the crimes are gone. We want the police to be able to do more in order to improve public safety, to strengthen public order and public security, and therefore the Bátonyterenye police department and the Nógrád County Police Headquarters are in the area with increased forces. In the meantime, on 1 July 2014, the Government extended this model safety programme to the entire territory of the country. It provided its cover, its resources, so we have every chance of further improving public security in Mátraverebély. I ask the Member that you, too, as a Member of Parliament, contribute to making the people of Mátraverbély safer by supporting law that promotes order. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-159	Thank you very much. The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2014-12-16-160	Dear Secretary of State, This local problem also affects two counties, since from Hatvan to Salgótarján these Mátraverbély criminals appear everywhere, along the railway lines, in the cities, and crime is committed everywhere. I would not be able to follow this optimistic approach, as you have just said here, Secretary of State. It is simply not a solution to the occasional deployment of 20 to 30 police officers to one settlement. There's only one solution. What Jobbik has been calling for a long time ago: at these focal points, in these focal points, it is necessary to create police stations or, where appropriate, police stations, and in the middle such settlements must be installed with a permanent presence. It's the only way to clean up these settlements, otherwise it's unthinkable. In this settlement, please, as if we were in American crime scenes, there are conditions. They're burning fire in barrels, and the roadmen are out on the side of the road, and today, by the way, I was just passing by. That's exactly what I saw a week ago, so I can't accept it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is the answer that has been given here. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-161	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-16-162	Mr. President, thank you. Honourable Congressman, I would like to state that in Mátraverebély there are four members of the district delegation group, which will help maintain the order of police officers from the Bátonyterenye and the county police headquarters. You can say that there is a permanent police presence, and once again, thanks to the task force in the district. Obviously, we would like to do more, we are not entirely satisfied with the state of public order and public security created there, we would like to do more, I said it, but once again, there is an improvement. [[14.20]] This is not said by us, but by the inhabitants of the settlement and the leaders of the settlement. As far as the people who set fire to the barrel are concerned, according to the police, this does not correspond to reality, a phenomenon which has not been seen by police control. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-163	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, notary of the National Assembly, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What does the government do to protect consumers and customers before the holidays? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Minister Ákos Kara to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Móring József: Yes.]] Yeah, he'll take it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-164	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In general, the Consumer Protection Authority found shortcomings in the inspections of the previous years in one third of the traders investigated. Last year, the authority carried out more than 650 Christmas checks and found irregularities at 42% of them. The main focus of the Authority is on large-scale shopping malls, with particular attention being paid to the continuing faulty pricing and the presence of misleading discount offers. During the holidays, they focus on the investigation of seasonal products and offer good advice on online shopping that is gaining ground. Dear Secretary of State, There has been a radical change in consumer protection, since the Fundamental Law defines consumer rights as a state task. The government has made it clear that it stands up for consumer rights, takes decisive action against the vulnerable situation, while increasing consumer awareness. The strengthening of consumer confidence is of the utmost importance, as it encourages economic recovery, buying within a legal framework and contributes to the whitening of the economy. According to news released in the press, the Consumer Protection Authority's staff have started regular inspections of the Christmas season. On this basis, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what changes have been made over the past few years to protect consumer rights, what measures are being taken by the authorities to protect consumers during the Christmas season. I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-165	Thank you very much. Mr. Ákos Kara is the secretary of state. Here.
u2014-12-16-166	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Christmas really is important for every family, for all people, but at the same time the Christmas period in trade is the most profitable period. Indeed, it is a priority for the government and for all of us to provide consumers with adequate protection and information. However, it is also an important government goal, and I think that we all have a common intention that companies and traders operating in Hungary should also be treated as appropriate partners, so that they should be properly treated as partners by the National Consumer Protection Authority. Dear fellow Member, Indeed, in the last week of November, the Consumer Protection Authority's staff started their pre-holiday inspections. The answer to your specific question is that, in addition to a really new approach, on the basis of new considerations, the emphasis is on price display, i.e. adequate information on consumer rights, the elimination of consumer damages and, indeed, the need to provide appropriate information on promotional offers in the current investigations. In addition to concrete measures, the consumer protection agency's staff are also trying to do their job on a new approach. The point of this new approach is that instead of punishing it, it is primarily intended to draw the attention of sellers to compliance with the right legislation. They shall also verify whether the deficiencies are eliminated by traders within the time limit set, and, where appropriate, shall be recorded as a fine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For traders who break the rules. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-16-167	The congressman should have a rejoinder.
u2014-12-16-168	Thank you very much. In particular, I would like to stress that there has been a change of perspective in this regard, as controls are not intended to destroy entrepreneurs and businesses, but are not intended to impose penalties, but to protect customers' wallets and, in many cases, their health. So thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Allow me to wish you all a blessed, merry Christmas, the housekeeping, the staff of the Registry Office, and everyone who helped us with our work. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-16-169	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-16-170	Dear fellow Member, During the pre-Christmas period, I could sum up the tasks of the Consumer Protection Authority so that the task of information is of paramount importance for families and customers. The necessary knowledge to prevent future problems is available in the publications compiled for this purpose and, more and more clearly, in accordance with the requirements of the new age, we have tried to draw attention to conscious customer behaviour on the website of this public authority and its monitoring wallet, i.e. the Ministry of National Development. I also think that this will greatly help to reduce the number of inconveniences, bad experiences that could have been experienced earlier in this period by consumers, families. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-16-171	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "Will you be responsible? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2014-12-16-172	Thank you very much for the floor. I'll turn to you again, Minister. [[János Lázár: Good Place!]] , in relation to my question about 1% of personal income tax, which in 2009 could be offered by taxpayers for deflecting ragweed. To my previous immediate question, the Minister replied that the government would return the 642 million forints previously spent on severance and operation instead of deflecting ragweed. This happened at the end of November. Then came the news that the rest of the money, the HUF 463 million, was spent differently from the target. The accounts show that the accounts of the Ministry of Agriculture, its directorates and government offices have been taken into account with questionable accounts for the effectiveness of the de-fouling. Pallet of photocopying paper, roofing, 92 500 HUF leather bag, LCD monitor and silver metal shoe cleaner were included in the account. This case raises a lot of questions. When will a professionally-supported and functioning system be finally established for the removal of ragweed? After a multi-annual request from professionals and civil society organisations, when will a government commissioner be appointed to be responsible for this area? Because, you know, Minister, it is not a solution to the issue of applications to civilians for deflecting grass, giving them the tasks to be carried out by the state, which they have neither the means nor the authority to do, because civilians are not a public authority. Take this case a little more seriously. We don't need pretend decisions, we need steps, we need real tools and money for the discharge, which is under the supervision of a government commissioner. Where do you think the service state is, if they've been released in the press, that the money for parlagweed removal is gonna be paper for the office, and they're gonna have a roof over the office for leaks? Do you think that's okay? When are we going to see who's responsible for this scandalous, irresponsible money management? Or is the money back taken care of? I look forward to your reply with confidence.
u2014-12-16-173	Thank you very much. It is in confidence that the congresswoman awaits your reply. Minister, you have the opportunity.
u2014-12-16-174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Congresswoman, The truth is, I did not think, in any way, that you, Mrs Harangozó, would start by thanking the government for its extraordinary action on the Kehi report of the National Park of Hortobágy or for the reimbursement of HUF 642 million. There is no thanks for it, but the fair and fair procedure involves mentioning that, partly thanks to your firm action, and partly due to your firm action, in view of the government's reception capacity, we managed to recover HUF 642 million, if you like, from NGM, along with you, the agricultural portfolio. It was possible to force government action to return the money over a period of three years, due to the 2011 lockdowns that had otherwise been ordered for economic policy steps prior to 2010. The government decided on 642 million forints, considered your points of view, and, of course, discussed with civilians, since they were not only looking for you, but also a number of my fellow Members with Fidesz. The Prime Minister also listened to the Minister of Agriculture at the government meeting and then instructed the Minister of Economy to return the HUF 642 million. [[14.30]] So far, my competence has spread, everything else beyond this is the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture. I think it would be right if the same organisations that were addressed to this 1 percent were to receive this money back, the same HUF 642 million could be used by the same social and civil society organisations in the next period. For the future, I support all the efforts of a woman representing her, either the Ministry of Agriculture, or any fellow Member that strengthens action against ragweed, whether within the government or within society. I'm happy to be your partner in this, and in light of your calls, I'm following up on the Ministry of Agriculture's fight against ragweed. I would ask the Secretary of State, István Nagy, to buy you a cup of coffee and discuss next year's fight against ragweed.
u2014-12-16-175	Let's see what trust is worth. Congresswoman's good for a cup of coffee. Now we'll see what he has to say. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-176	As I said before, yes, I asked you several times, both the Ministry of Agriculture, and as I said, this amount was returned at the end of November. The other half of the amount now has accounts that are questionable. 'Cause for 92,500 forints, buying a leather bag for a paragliding, let's just say it's questionable. Today will be the establishment of the ragweed wheel table, at exactly 3 o'clock, to which representatives of both civilians and ministries are welcome. We're waiting for everyone who cares. If the government wants to take it seriously, it will listen to the voice of civilians and the word of the profession and appoint a government commissioner for this question. Finally, this money must go to a place that can oversee it, not for civilians who have neither the means nor the authority. Take seriously the suffering of two million people during the summer season. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-16-177	A rejoinder, Minister.
u2014-12-16-178	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I support your fight against ragweed, and I ask the Ministry to support your struggle, and we will also take into account the needs of civilians within the government in the budget for next year or in the reserve. I would like to take this opportunity here, of course, there is plenty of work for the government to do in this matter, but it is worth considering, in the interest of the government, how social activity can be further intensified with the help of civilians. First of all, the owner of the land has a responsibility; if it is public land, that is, if it is privately owned land. It is also responsible for the territorially competent municipality, which must take every step, especially the municipalities supported by public works programmes for countering ragweed. And, of course, the wallet has a responsibility to support as many such initiatives as possible. We're ready to cooperate with you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-179	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why was it only in the year before the elections that there was an urgent call for proposals from the National Cooperation Fund for civil society organisations? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor.
u2014-12-16-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Let's continue with the civilians and their 1 percent and the calls, just a little bit different. In fact, until 2010, the national civil society base programme was operational from 2003 onwards. He obviously had many flaws, but he had 7.8 billion forints, which could be distributed to support civil society organisations. This system has been terminated by you. Two thirds of government were created instead of the existing 90 percent NGOs, and this amount, this HUF 8 billion, was reduced to HUF 3.2 billion. While in recent months or the past six months, they have been campaigning against civilians in general, including civilians as if they were all Balliberian traitors and enemies of the nation, forgetting that there are thousands and tens of thousands of NGOs operating in many areas of life. The resources of these civil society organisations last year, when the elections were approaching... - the National Cooperation Fund was suddenly able to man up, and at the end of October it was able to write out operational and programme applications. There was a deadline for these to be submitted at Christmas, and by the way, Mr Secretary of State, so that until the elections, all civil society organisations could be allocated the money. We are now there in 2014 compared to the fact that the applications were not published in October, and not only is the deadline for the submission of applications now, but they were not issued either. Of course, you can say that because we adopted the budget yesterday. Only if we adopted his budget yesterday, and it wasn't possible to put out these applications, then why did these applications have to be published last year? Not to mention that civil society organisations are also in a very serious situation because thousands of civil society organisations have been sitting on their founding and founding documents for several months, and those organisations cannot have access to their 1 percent offerings until then. So these civil society organisations will be in several difficult situations over the next six months. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why is this the case, and what do you intend to do to remedy it? Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-181	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-16-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would never wish a situation more difficult for anyone, civilians, or others, than that they would have to farm from a 60 percent larger source next year than this year. After all, you know very well that under the budget law adopted yesterday, the framework of the National Cooperation Fund increases from HUF 3.3 billion to HUF 5.4 billion, i.e. by HUF 2 billion to HUF 100 million. So, for civil society organisations, next year's budget will provide much more opportunities than this year's. We can say that civilians are one of the winners of the 2015 budget. After all, they can implement much more programs or offer much more colorful programs to their members and everyone else. I think that the previous system of the national civil society basic programme has been renewed, and I think that Member has said it several times, either outside Parliament or within Parliament. I don't think there was a particular debate between anyone about the need to change that system. Also, the system was not good, the earlier period when public funds were taken out even through organisations linked to the name of János Zuschlag without actually being accounted for. And it is not right that some groups, whether political groups or pressure groups, are pretending to be civilians, but in fact, they are pretending to be civil activities, but they actually have political or economic intentions that they are hiding. It's better for everyone to stand there with a clear intention and a raised helmet. But I think these amendments to the law were meant for civil society organisations to actually receive funding from civilians. I believe that, in this respect, calls for proposals will be issued by 15 February, in accordance with the statutory deadline, i.e. in full compliance with the time limits laid down in the Act adopted by Parliament. In fact, according to our current plans, they will appear by far before the legal deadline, only 60 percent more money than in the previous period. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-183	Congressman!
u2014-12-16-184	The winners of 2015 may be civilians, but the losers of the change of government, Mr. Secretary of State. Then again, the gallantly increased HUF 5.4 billion by you is still far below the HUF 7.8 billion in 2010. And by the way, you answered all my questions, but not the point, especially why the applications weren't published. But then I'll answer you, Mr. Secretary, that's pretty much what they're talking about in civilian circles now. The reason the applications were not published is because you wanted to bring them in, and the authorities wanted to abolish the rule that states that civil society organisations that receive funds for three consecutive years cannot start in the fourth year. Now, that rule hasn't made sense so far, given that the NEA has been in operation for three years. It would make sense next year, but it would not be possible to pay for the Fidesz buddy companies assisting in the elections and participating in the elections, as this would apply to them. However, this amendment has not yet been brought before the Parliament, which is why the entire invitation to tender has been delayed, Mr Secretary of State. Unfortunately, there is such a simple reason for this, according to virtually everyone involved in this matter. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-185	Mr. Secretary, you have a minute. Here.
u2014-12-16-186	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, All the directions of the Member's speech are wrong, and all his statements are not justified. On the one hand, there is indeed a debate about the fact that this three-year rule that, if a person received state aid for several years, showing that as a civil society organisation he obviously does not only live from state resources, he could receive aid again after a year's break. This is the basis for how civil society organisations used to be known as NGOs, i.e. non-governmental organisations, when they lived only on government support, and 90-100 percent of their operations were provided from government sources. Obviously, they cannot be fully non-governmental bodies if they only live on government support. Many civil society organisations have asked for this, not fidesz friends, as you have said, to say that they have expanded the Fidesz Friends' Camp enough, because they have been asked and demanded by organisations that have nothing to do with politics, but they need state aid. Obviously, you are also mistaken in the legislative hierarchy, as this can also be done with a regulation amendment. The constructions will be different, as 60 percent more money will have to be distributed in new types of construction, and this will happen naturally. Thank you very much. [[14.40]]
u2014-12-16-187	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I declare the immediate question closed. Then the questions will follow. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: the new Mt is in fact unconstitutional. the part concerning the issue of leave? It's an address. It's the congressman's turn, here you go.
u2014-12-16-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The method of calculating annual normal leave today's Mt. is unconstitutional. According to him, at least on the basis of the Ombudsman's report. It is in front of the Ab - the Constitutional Court, to my knowledge, but it has not yet been examined, and it is likely that it will come to this conclusion in the same way. For the reasons why this report and the Ombudsman call it unconstitutional, the way in which the annual ordinary leave is calculated is based on Article 115. Paragraph 2 (2) (e), which is essentially about the fact that inability to work for more than 30 days does not form the basis for the calculation of freedom. In English: you can come forward, you can also have a situation where you can't even reach the minimum of normal annual leave, because you spend 60 days, let's say, in an indestructible state, and on this basis, from the 31st day, all of this doesn't count as a period of freedom. If and if this is the case, then, as I said, it is constitutionally offensive, and it must be naturally corrected, but most importantly, it should not be brought to life, so that such a law should not be born. The old Mt. in accordance with EU practice, the new Mt. It gives me room for this kind of concern, but we don't have time to go into it in more detail. In fact, I would like to put three simple questions in this regard: What can employers and workers expect in line with constitutional infringement and law? And if this proves to be a constitutional violation, then who's gonna stand for it? Who will bear the consequences of this? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the end, I would like to ask what will happen to bringing new laws that respect employers' rights to life? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Sándor Czomba responds, please.
u2014-12-16-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Speaking of Mt. He mentioned his new subject on freedom, so let me draw attention to the fact that, in general, in terms of basic and supplementary leave, the new labour code has taken over the regulation with a minimum derogation or in many places with no derogation. [[Nándor Gúr: Only the public workers have no additional leave.]] In fact, the new Mt. at the time of birth of the child, the father is given 5 days and 7 days in the case of twin children. You couldn't find this in the old one. In response to your question, I would like to indicate to you that, in fact, when we discussed Mt., the employer's part of the job was concerned - I do not want to burden the people who are sitting here with what it is - the point is that in the case of a person who is incapacity for work for less than 30 days, let us say, on sick leave, in the case of 20 days of basic leave, i.e. practically as if he were in employment; after Day 31 or 40. And the employers said that it was suggested that this should be the case, because, in fact, if you are away from work as much as possible, you are unemployed... - the interpretation of freedom is about giving you a rest after your time at work. So that logic is understandable at some level. Nevertheless, I would like to say good news to the Member. I can tell you to look at T/2141. Legislative proposal No 15 on Hungary's central budget for the year. This passage is changing, so there's actually no need for any investigation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr: Now we only need to restore the additional freedom of the public workers! Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-16-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why does the government not stop the expansion of foreign-owned and domestic-owned empires in agriculture as well? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to thank you for the fact that my written question on the same subject has been rejected, so I will try to say it orally, in case you are willing to answer it. As is known, the Agrofert Group, which is linked to the Czech Andrej Babiš multibillionaire, purchased the IKR Kereskedelmi Zrt. of Bábolna as an agricultural integrator two years ago. input materials business. Then, last year, this interest continued to expand in Hungary and acquired the licenses for the marketing of the New Holland machine brand in Hungary, which has so far been granted by IKR Zrt. owned. But it didn't stop here either, it's constantly expanding, and for example, it bought up Kishunfélegyházi NT Kft., which deals with the production of oil. According to the decision of the Hungarian Competition Authority, the acquired property does not have an adverse effect on the country and at all on the parties concerned, since the GVH justified this by the fact that, in addition to agricultural machinery, its shares, including the Agrofert group and the entire territorial centres, do not reach the certain magical 30% by the turnover of each agricultural input material in Hungary, which would always be expected to intervene in such cases. My only question is why, contrary to your words, the government does not act in such cases, why it does not allow such businesses to remain in the highest possible domestic hands, since Prime Minister also regularly says that agriculture is a driving sector in Hungary, while these companies are constantly being played over to empires of such western and other interests. Not to mention the opportunity your close friends of the government have had in these areas. I therefore ask the Secretary of State when they intend to stop foreign expansion in agriculture. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy, please.
u2014-12-16-194	Mr President, My dear fellow Member, I can only confirm what you say that industry and agriculture will raise our country, and the performance of agriculture is necessary to ensure that the economic growth that is taking place in Hungary continues to be sustainable. All that agriculture achieves in employment contributes to a higher standard of living in rural areas. The privatisation of the food industry with well-known anomalies has not recently taken place, and the inherited ownership structure is not very elegant to count against the current government. It is true, however, that many foreign investments have brought capital, expertise and jobs to Hungary. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that Hungary is a member of the European Union and is also a market economy. Thus, the government's intervention options are limited in the investment of legally operating companies. As you probably know, the unhindered flow of capital is one of the four freedoms on which the Union is built. The transaction mentioned in your question did not have to be notified to the government, since private companies sold companies to private companies. In the case of the ICS, it should be noted that an enterprise close to bankruptcy was rescued by the investor and thus saved thousands of jobs. The government's aim is, of course, to develop, put in position Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and to adapt the support system accordingly. At the same time, I strongly reject your claim that the beneficiaries of this process would be any kind of government close-up corporate empire. Finally, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the Economic Competition Authority is an autonomous administrative body, independent of the government, subject to Parliament. In the performance of his duties, he shall not be required to perform his duties and shall exercise them without any influence. The Government does not have any information on the illegal activities of the Agrofert Group [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, for the reasons mentioned above, do not give instructions to examine the group of companies. At the same time, my fellow Member, if you have such information, you should file a complaint with the Bureau. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-16-195	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister for National Development a question:. Unconcepted fundraising? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am asking you about one of the newest measures in your management of ideas - the extension of the toll, in which you would make certain sections of the M0 pay, and also the bypasses around the big cities. [[14.50]] You are obviously aware that this is a harsh punishment for the population of Budapest, for the agglomeration and for the big cities around which you wish to make the bypass pay. The quality of life of the people living there will deteriorate, the value of the property will decrease, the risk of accidents will increase, environmental pollution will also increase. Overall, we see that this is a very reckless measure; the only responsible choice is to withdraw from this and stop the idea steering. Dear Secretary of State, I want you to know that Kecskemét, Székesfehérvár, Győr and the entire agglomeration will be bad, but this will also be waiting for Budapest and the settlements around the capital. You may know that I live in Budakeszin, but you may not know how hard it is to get from Budakeszi to the capital. How do you think you're going to put in place measures to increase congestion? The same applies to Budaörs, but also to Budakalasz and many other settlements. I would add that you also said that this is what you want us to do on the train. Now, this would be difficult from Budakeszi, because there is no train; there is no alternative but a way to get us into the capital and back, and it is also very overloaded. But you wouldn't spare the railway schedule, you'd cut flights, you'd reduce the schedule. Dear Secretary of State, What made you think of that idea? I'm asking you if you have any impact assessments, studies that show that you've been counting on the consequences. We expect you to present these calculations and back off from this unacceptable idea, and I also ask you to stop running ideas. This is a very bad thing for Hungary.
u2014-12-16-197	Thank you very much. Mr László Tasó, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you very much for your question, because I have the opportunity to put some things in place between the walls of the House and to inform you that the government's primary intention was to help those travelling in Hungary, especially those travelling in Hungary. With the introduction of the county sticker, with this new institution, there is a great opportunity for everyone, as a regular user, not to buy the sticker for the whole year, but only for those sections, the counties that they use. With this, you can achieve a substantial reduction in your cost, which is related to the journey, and think, for example, that the person who had to pay 42 980 forints before can now do this with three or four stickers. About half the cost to many travelers and travellers will be reduced. What is important is that the use of free-of-charge sections, which were not previously free of charge, is that they serve since all the motorways in Hungary were made out of public money, from community sources or from our own resources, we think that in the same transport conditions, everyone should be the same. So we would like it not to be the place of residence that decides who has the travel expenses. I can safely say to you that there are no tests that would support someone hiding, for example, or taking a different route, rather than taking the highways. In the case of motorways, let me say that in several cases it is very much needed for more traffic, because we build it with expensive money, and there is a very serious cost of maintenance for such an expressway, and few move on it, few use it. They did this, by the way, because it was very expensive even the annual sticker, and as a result, if we reduce it, I'm sure more people will go there, and they'll choose the motorways safely. Neither in Budakalas nor in Budakaszin, there is no need to fear that the traffic conditions will change. Believe me, you will force no one else to do it for 5,000 forints, 400 forints/month - 20 forints/day. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-199	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Tessely, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: "Do you want to rule the most beautiful buildings in rural Hungary, saving our national values that have been destroyed for decades, the long-awaited salvation of our values? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-200	Thank you for the floor and for the opportunity, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Our cultural heritage has built values, so our monument buildings have an extremely important role to play in the life of rural Hungary. These beautiful buildings of our built environment are the carriers of inner human values, thus strengthening our attachment to the nation and local communities. In addition to the spiritual and conscious blessings on the living on the ground, however, these patina buildings attract both domestic and foreign tourists and economic operators, thus playing a significant role in the field of job creation through economic recovery. That is why it is a pleasure for us rural people that Hungary's government has announced the national castle programme to remedy the nation's many decades of debt. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The castles in the programme are very diverse in terms of their wealth, status, geographical location and function. Issues related to making their operation economic require great care, thorough work and a high level of local knowledge. My question is: what steps will the government take to ensure that the programme, which is expected to be financed by EU or budgetary resources, is truly creating sustainable results, sustainable buildings and sustainable institutions? I would ask the Secretary of State to present in his reply the ideas of the Csákvár Castle in the national castle programme and the government plans and their relationship to the national castle programme relating to the completion of the reconstruction of the castle park currently under way in the garden of the castle in Bicske. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-201	I now give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2014-12-16-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for the Prime Minister's question. If I answer the question in the title - whether it is Urisation of the most beautiful buildings in rural Hungary, the saving of our national values that have been dying for decades so long, I can give you a very short answer: no, honourable Member, it is not. As you later explained in your comments on your question, it is actually an extremely important job to fill the gap, which is also a token of the economic and cultural rise of rural Hungary: it creates jobs, gives assignments to restorers, construction companies, excellent engineers. Dear fellow Member, It is very important that within the framework of the national castle programme we find a useful function for our institutions in a way that serves the long-term maintenance. We have a unique vision for each castle that is included in this program. Currently, 20 researchers at the Forster Center are working on the scientific basis for this task. We will be ready by the end of March 2015 with the detailed concept of opening the plan adopted by the government. You, Congressman, are exceptionally fortunate, since your constituency is included in the National Castle Programme with four important monuments: the Cziráky Castle in Lóberény, the Váli Ürményi Castle and the two castles you asked about. The Esterházy Castle in Csákvár is indeed a building of outstanding value, one of the largest Hungarian castles, the proper exploitation of which is a huge task. There's a hospital in it right now. In order to create a hospital function, if the hospital's aim is to achieve this, we will find the best solution to fill it, to the satisfaction of those affected, not only will jobs be lost, but also new jobs will be created. In the garden of the Batthyány Castle in Bicsk, we will complete the ongoing renovation of the European Union, and then the renovation of the building will continue. Thank you very much, Congressman, for your question and your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-16-203	Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. When will the government help those living in Lőrinc and its region to resolve asbestos contamination as soon as possible? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the question will be answered by Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, on behalf of the Minister of Human Resources, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-16-204	With all due respect, I'd like to welcome you. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Far be it from me to turn this issue into political capital, I would like to help the government in the first place, all the more so because I once received a positive promise in this matter, but unfortunately I am turning back to this House because I have received a positive response, but I see that weeks, months have passed and nothing is happening in this matter. We see, for years, everyone in the Selypi Basin has been concerned about the environmental disaster that we are talking about. At the site of the old sugar factory and later the cement factory and the eternite factory, there are unblessed conditions. [[15.00]] In one survey, it became clear that it could infect so - called blue asbestos people with a latency period of up to 30 years. Not so long ago, a survey revealed that 60-80 tonnes of asbestos was found on a site that was unprofessionally reactivated, and as I mentioned, there could be up to 30 years of incubation of asbestososis disease. I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to the fact that the recent statement by the doctor of one of the neighbouring settlements that, while in society as a whole, say, one million people have two patients of this kind, only seven people infected with this disease in Zagyvasántón were registered by the general doctor. I know that there is a court procedure going on, but I would just like to add that the judicial procedure is not a solution because the problem is now, the problem needs to be solved now, and the problem can only be solved by the government, and I was concerned about the fact that the Fidesz majority voted off the amendment in connection with Mr Sneider's motion two weeks ago. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For this reason, Mr Secretary, I am asking what you want to do, when and what resources are at your disposal to solve the problem. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-205	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-16-206	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, From the general medical districts of the Zagyvasántó and Lőrinci municipalities of Heves County, as you have already pointed out, a report has been notified to the competent health authority in October 2013 regarding the accumulation of pleural cancers. The public health administration of the Heves County Government Office has launched an investigation and concluded that a common risk factor may exist in the context of cases, linked to the activity of the ceased asbestos processing plant. With the involvement of the National Office of Official Medicine, the National Institute of Environmental Health, the National Institute of Chemical Safety and the Public Health Administration of the Heves and Nógrád County Government Office, a working group was set up to investigate the situation and map out the necessary measures. In the town of Lőrinci, bordering Zagyvaszántó, the plant, which the Member referred to, was in operation until 2004, was in place, where, among other things, the production of asbestos-containing products was also carried out. The demolition of the plant's buildings may have caused asbestos waste, and the inhalation of asbestos fibres may obviously cause very serious damage to health. The owner of the plant did not provide for the removal of asbestos waste, and did not comply with the decisions of the High Inspectorate for the Environment and Nature of the Central Danube Valley, and did not dispose of the environment. In order to avoid dusting asbestos waste, the inspectorate carries out watering activities in the area - obviously only a temporary activity - thereby preventing asbestos from being released into the air. At the same time, it is important that the environmental damage left behind in the area be eliminated as soon as possible and the most effective technical intervention is carried out. To this end, the Inspectorate has examined the ways in which hazardous waste can be eradicated. Based on the results of the health and environmental studies carried out, the government is committed to finding a rapid solution to the health of the population in the area. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There are two types of alternatives that the government can choose from and seek to ensure as soon as possible that these are covered in addition to the further implementation of litigation procedures, in order to protect the health of those there. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-207	Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Like Jobbik, does the government consider it important to have youth self-governments in as many settlements as possible? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-16-208	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is very behind in the enforcement of the interests of young people. This age group is more of a sufferer than a figurer of decisions. As a result, youth has moved away from politics and public life at both national and local levels. It is also a serious concern that young people are increasingly deciding to leave their settlement, even the country, which is not only an individual problem, but also a frightening future for the nation. Jobbik also constantly raises young people's problems in Parliament and puts pressure on the government to deal with them. I am speaking now on such a matter, in particular, about the opportunities for young people in their homes to create attractive settlements that are more concerned with them. This would require organisational frameworks to address these problems with the involvement of stakeholders. Therefore, according to Jobbik, it is necessary to establish a youth municipality in as many settlements as possible. The institution is not new in Hungary, it operates well in several settlements of the country. They can have many results behind them, they have been able to bring politics closer to young people, learn about the local problems of youth and organise meaningful programmes. In our view, it is therefore very important that there are as many municipalities in the country as possible to develop a youth self-government. For this reason, hundreds of right-wing representatives of local governments will present proposals for this at local level in the next period. In the near future, the organisation of youth self-governments can start in hundreds of municipalities and districts. If this succeeds, even more youth and children's programmes can be organised, the contact and cooperation of young people, the representation of young people in the settlement, and the possibility of raising local problems, resolving them and transferring them to the local government. Dear Secretary of State, My question is what is the government's position on the establishment of youth self-governments. Please express your views clearly on whether you want to support the formation of youth self-governments. I look forward to your clear and meaningful response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-209	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-16-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps it is nice that perhaps the last speech of this year, I think, can take place in favour of a consensus, because we are focusing on the question of the Member and not on his first thirty seconds, which is obviously more difficult to agree with. If we focus on the issue here, of course, the government would clearly like to have as many as possible, not only would you like to, but also support the formation of youth self-governments in as many settlements as possible. We want to offer young people a lot of ways and opportunities to participate as much as possible in public life, to understand these public decisions better, to see how complex, non-black-and-white a public decision is, obviously, the political dimension of this should be taken into account. It is therefore very important that there should be as many local governments as possible, but in the same way we encourage and support the establishment of student self-governments, as transparent as possible and student self-governments serving student interest in Hungary. And from various sources, not only the Fund for National Cooperation, mentioned earlier, but also from the Fund for Children and Youth, with the support of the GIA Council, many people can receive support, incentives or professional background for such democratic learning and public life programmes, precisely so that public life, politics and decision-making are made as much as possible. Obviously, an important part of this is the fact that there are also public support websites, large Facebook communities that encourage active citizenship, and many young communities in the Youth In Action programme have also been supported. So I think that both public institutions, background institutions and other civil society organisations will be supported to encourage such programmes. I believe that there is agreement in both Jobbik and Fidesz-KDNP and in all the other parliamentary parties to create as many youth self-governments as possible. The representatives of all parties, not only the Jobbik, can count on us, but also the representatives of all other parties. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And since this is the last time, allow me to wish everyone a blessed Christmas and a happy New Year next year. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-211	Ladies and gentlemen, As the last question today, Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, asks the Minister for National Development:. Why did they beat another nail into the coffin of the southern periphery of South Transdanubia? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2014-12-16-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Let me start with some of the bitter lines of a letter sent to me by a South Somogy mayor. "I do not want to move out of this area," he writes, "but I would recommend it to my children and grandchildren, because there is no perspective. Sometimes I wonder if it's worth doing anything, planting a tree, tending a garden, embellishing your own door. Today, I am tired of fighting without results, after a while crashing into the meaningless walls that teach me that everything is in vain. The storms of history and the people of South Somogy, and West Baranya, who have been oppressed by governments who ignore the region, feel deceived again. Last year's promises of the government meeting in Chemistry were a ray of hope for the people living here, and on 27 October, János Fónagy, Parliamentary Secretary of State of the Development portfolio, confirmed this in response to one of my questions, saying that the government supports the infrastructure catching up in the region, the preparation of the section between Pécs and Barcs M60 is under way, which will be completed by 2018. However, according to the latest government decree published in the Hungarian Gazette, motorway construction plans were withdrawn. [[15.10]] Please explain what the people of this country can expect until 2018. What hope do you have for your children and grandchildren to stay here? What would bring value-creating investments that create real jobs here? Or have you decided, following the logic of field surgery, that it's a waste of resources and swallow the Ormania South Somogy? The people here are not asking for stadiums, they want to work, but this is not going to work without attractive infrastructure improvements. I wish you a blessed Christmas, and I look forward to your honored reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-213	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2014-12-16-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I would like to start by saying that the honest, hardworking people of that region don't give up so easily, but they don't have to think in such a way, because the Hungarian government made it clear in August which directions are the direction of transport development. He also made it clear that he would build motorways up to national borders, connect the county seats to the expressway, so I can safely say that what he had previously undertaken will be fulfilled. Many lists have been seen in Hungary today, but believe me, the intention remains undisturbed. By the way, when he subpoenaed his statement there, János Fónagy said that the preparation would be completed by 2018. I asked him how to interpret it, and he even reasoned clearly about the preparation. Believe me, we have no intention but to build all our highways to the border. And what is important is that the M60 road is not part of the European main transport network, the trans-European network, but the government intends to implement it, from domestic sources and from domestic budgets. The only way we could use EU funding here is because we have included it in the so-called European economic recovery package, which is also called the Juncker List, so that we can participate in this programme in part and add EU funds. But even if the intention is not fully clear, the M60 will build up to the border as promised before, and the M6 motorway will reach the border. Believe me, we have the same intention of helping all people living in Hungary to continue their days in the region where they live and from which they have torn Hungarians. I hope you will accept my answer and wish you, by the way, and all the kind people here, our colleagues, a merry, peaceful Christmas! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Ander Balázs: All we need is an approximate date!]]
u2014-12-16-215	Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain administrative laws until closure. The submission is T/2329. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to remind you that yesterday we decided on an urgent trial of the motion. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2014-12-16-216	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I think we all agree that ensuring the efficiency of the public administration and the nature of the service provider of the state is of paramount importance to improve the country's competitiveness and conditions for economic growth, due to a reduction in the level of redistribution. The aim of the public administration is not to maintain bureaucratic brakes, but to ensure freedom of action for the economy and society, while properly enforcing the public interest. In 2010, the primary task of the government, which came to power from the confidence of its voters, was to rebuild the country from the economic and moral crisis caused by socialist government, which, in previous years, was the result of the state of the world economy, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, of domestic social and political relations. In the last cycle, the Fundamental Law was adopted as a starting point for the renewal of the State, and measures for the transformation of large supply systems such as public education, health systems and public administration and municipal systems were launched. The government intends to promote the strengthening of public services in the broad sense of communities, i.e. families, businesses, municipalities, ultimately society as a whole. With regard to the functioning of the public administration, the primary objective was to regain the confidence of citizens, which had already been degraded at the time of the socialist state settlement, and in which the various experiments of the twenty years after the change of regime did not bring any real change or progress. Clients and cases have been lost in the increasingly diverse system; not because of malice or incompetence, but because the responsibilities and jurisdictions have become too complicated and unpredictable. In several cases, parallelity between different organisations has been made apparent. Ladies and gentlemen, Recovering confidence in the State can only be gradual, but a number of measures to improve public administration have been taken in the last government cycle. Such measures were customer-friendly re-regulation of the general rules of administrative procedures, a reduction of the general administrative deadline, the creation of administrative facilities at county and district level, and the establishment and gradual construction of first government windows as a single customer service on the basis of the document offices. However, all these measures can only lead to the transformation of the public administration in the direction of the establishment of the State of supply. As a ministering state, the aim is to establish an organisation where the public offices are not in subordination with the client, but preferably in co-ordination, in which the representatives of the authority are aware that the purpose of their day-to-day work is to facilitate the success of the customers as a means of achieving their objectives. In this context, public administration should not only be passive observers of the processes around it, but also actively help to make citizens' everyday lives better and to improve the competitiveness of businesses. The State of service must apply to all corners of the public administration, including the provision of shorter administrative deadlines than today, the development of customer services that provide uniform public administration, payment and other public services, the possibilities for full electronic administration and the charging system which is, as far as possible, proportionate to the services carried out. The next step in the establishment of the State of Service is the bill on the amendment of certain administrative laws, which is now being discussed by Parliament, which creates the organisational framework for the process outlined earlier. The bill ensures the renewal of the operation of the metropolitan and county government offices and district and metropolitan district offices, so that a more efficient and simpler system of government offices can be built. Dear fellow Members, Horizontal and operational integration with the establishment of metropolitan and county government offices on 1 January 2011 has already ensured a more efficient use of existing resources at territorial level by county and in the capital in a single organisation, a budgetary body. They have also been restored as part of the government offices, taking into account the practicality and centuries of domestic state administration traditions, the district, capital and district offices, which have been defined as the lowest level of public administration, especially the expansion of the opportunities of rural people. This model has now been further developed in the framework of the bill, partly by further integrating regional government administrations and government tasks into government offices, partly by reviewing the internal structure and the governance system. At present, regional government bodies outside government offices have a variety of organisation and competence, and their powers are no longer limited to administrative powers. As a result of the bill or implementing legislation, two additional regional government bodies will be integrated in a uniform manner: environmental and nature protection inspectorates and mining offices. These regional public administrations are those whose activities are primarily of an official nature and are easily linked to the portfolio of the service providers of government agencies that they provide to citizens and businesses. [[15.20]] In addition, additional administrative tasks will be transferred to the government offices, including the accident reimbursement tasks of the National Health Insurance Fund's regional offices directly affecting citizens, the duties of the Immigration and Nationality Office in connection with the registration of the naturalised persons, and the tasks of the Hungarian State Treasury in connection with family support and housing state support. The most significant change affecting citizens will be introduced in conjunction with family support, such as family allowance, maternity allowance, by ensuring that administration at county level is provided in district offices. They provide citizens with significantly easier, cheaper and faster access to these services. Dear House, The date of integration of each regional administrative body or task shall be 1 March 2015. At the same time, integrating organisations and departments are no longer integrated into the existing administrative organ structure, but into a single government office established through internal integration. A qualitative change is also a prerequisite for the expansion of the government agency. On the one hand, the offices must be able to function in an integrated manner, with increased tasks and numbers, and on the other hand, by virtue of the principle of the State of the service, retail services must be significantly improved. This implies a single office, because due to the growth in size, this is the only way to guarantee functionality. The metropolitan and county government offices are the most complex organizations of the Hungarian administration. Following the proposed integration, the government's mandate register will be almost full regional government administration. The model of the single government office requires a unified organization, a unified leadership at both county and district level. As a result, all professional and functional tasks are primarily responsible for the government commissioner and the head of the district office. On this basis, the powers will be addressed, mutatis mutandis, to the Government Office and the district office. The primary result of this is that the system of responsibilities becomes clear from the point of view of governance and professionalism, and the government commissioner is no longer solely responsible for ensuring the conditions necessary for the performance of the tasks. However, it should be noted that the government commissioners have so far been a responsible leader, representing the positions of the administrative bodies that have actually taken professional decisions, thereby promoting the unity of government activities. Administrative bodies are also integrated at professional level. Cooperation with sectoral professional management will be the responsibility of the administration of the government office instead of the head of the administrative body. The government commissioner should be accountable to individual sectoral and professional managers for carrying out their professional tasks and, in close cooperation with them, find the optimal meeting point for sectoral aspects, the general government interest that should best and best for citizens. Dear House, Reinterpreting the tasks of government agencies also requires the renewal of the internal organisation. The current structure of the government office is created according to the requirements of dual management and independence of the administrative body, which is completely atypical in the Hungarian administration system. This has resulted in a number of solutions which make their integration into the general domestic public law system and their day-to-day operation significantly difficult. In addition to the restructuring of the administrative bodies, the concept of a single government office also means the pooling of core office units with professional and functional functions at organisational level. This also provides an opportunity to increase the effectiveness of the work of professionals, to shift flexibly between tasks requiring the same qualification, and to eliminate backlogs that have so far been almost self-evident in relation to specific professional priority periods. Dear fellow Members, I started with the need to regain confidence in customers and the importance of building a State of Service. At the same time, I think it is important to emphasise the additional benefits that can be achieved through the adoption of the bill and the restructuring of the government agency system. Organisational restructuring itself also has a number of potential, primarily for budget savings, which can make the operation of the State cheaper. This is also particularly true of the metropolitan and county government offices, where in recent years functional integration, such as uniform procurement and accommodation rationalisation, has brought significant savings compared to the pre-2010 system. At the same time, it is not so important for citizens in themselves that the organisation dealing with it operates at a cheaper rate than before, all the more so that it works effectively. The improvement in efficiency is tangible and visible to the State when it appears in smaller settlements where there has been no or minimal municipal administration, and now there is direct access to individual public administration services through the offices of district offices and adjutant offices. This has come true with the start of district offices on 1 January 2013 in more than two thousand settlements in Hungary, and this number will only increase with the administration of cash social benefits and family support tasks as of 1 March 2015. We will not only ensure that the services to date remain available at the points of administration so far, but we will also make additional services available at the district level, only remotely available at the county seat so far. There is also the possibility of significant simplification with regard to administrative procedures in the establishment of a single government agency. A simpler and faster examination of professional issues within the Government Office, which will mean a varying level of administrative burden reduction depending on the complexity of the issue, but also on the complexity of the issue, varies from one authority to another. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that ensuring the efficiency of the public administration and the nature of the service provider of the state is of paramount importance to improve the country's competitiveness and conditions for economic growth, due to a reduction in the level of redistribution. That's how I started my comment. That's what I'd like to finish with. That is why I ask the honourable Members of Parliament to support the bill tabled, as this is another step forward in the direction of the establishment of the service state, the more customer-friendly, faster, more efficient administration of the customer's administration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-16-217	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-12-16-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly about the bill before us. At the beginning of December, the Government presented the proposal under discussion, which aims to amend a number of laws on administrative matters. The Government has already stated in the National Cooperation Programme its intention to abolish the legacy of unsuccessful government in the period prior to 2010 and to re-establish the functioning of the State. Offices operating as general territorial bodies of the government may be among the most reorganized agencies in the Hungarian administration system. However, the experiments so far have always failed in practice. However, as of 1 September 2010, the metropolitan and county administration offices received strong powers to coordinate the activities of the regional government, with which the operational integration of the territorial government was already achieved. [[15.30]] In view of this, the government's fundamental intention is to create a good state, the means of which are to radically reform public administration, modernise it and create a real State of Service. The aim is therefore to create a public administration that focuses on citizens and businesses instead of documents and documents, instead of complex administrative procedures, on administrative services, in short: the good state. That is why we have started to rationalise and change the structure of the public administration. In the course of the domestic history of parliamentary democracy, there has never been such a transformation. The government considers the reorganisation and rationalisation of public administration an important goal, which is necessary because a well-functioning, simple and legitimate administration is very important for citizens and is also a condition for the recovery of the economy. On the basis of this bill, the government's priority objective is to increase the efficiency of public administration in the framework of the State Reform Programme, more united and controlled than ever before. It also aims to create a cost-effective territorial administration, thereby achieving the government's territorial responsibility, efficiency and effectiveness. The primary objective of the reform of the public administration is to reduce bureaucracy, create a friendly public administration, and ensure the freedom of society to act in the public interest. On 1 January 2011, the metropolitan and county government offices were established. This has significantly reduced the territorial fragmentation of the previous period, bureaucracy. A single and transparent budget has been set up to ensure efficient government administration. For citizens, the establishment of government offices has made the administration of a number of official procedures much faster and more rational, especially by first building government windows at county and then gradually walking level. With the development of government windows, it can be ensured that citizens really only have to meet the state in one place, from which all procedural acts will be carried out between the bodies of the state. At the same time, a number of regional government administrations continue to operate independently outside the organisational framework of the metropolitan and county government offices. Therefore, the government has decided to transfer certain regional government administrations to the metropolitan and county government offices. An example of this is that family support procedures are placed in the responsibilities of district offices from county seats, ensuring easier access to services for citizens. At the same time, internal integration of the metropolitan and county government offices is necessary to increase the performance, efficiency and effectiveness of territorial tasks. This will ensure that government agencies are able to perform a single task, reduce levels of management, make decisions faster and operate cheaper. With the importance of all this, I think we all agree, because this is also in the country's common interest. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support this bill and allow me to wish you all blessed Christmas holidays and a very happy new year. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-16-219	I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2014-12-16-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The metropolitan and county government offices were established on 1 January 2011 with the integration of regional government administrations. At that time, Minister Erika Szabó spoke directly on the basis of a new basis for the functioning of the good state, and even considered the government agency as a means of regaining confidence in the democratic institutional system. At the same time, a number of regional government administrations remained independent and functioned outside the organisational framework of the metropolitan and county government offices. The Government decided to integrate certain regional government administrations into the metropolitan and county government offices as of 1 March 2015. I note here that there is very little time left before 1 March, and they did not rush to submit this bill. The National Assembly has just received a bill on the basis of which environmental and nature control offices, mining offices, as well as family support procedures from the Hungarian State Treasury have been merged into district and capital district offices from the county seat. In addition, part of the tasks of the Immigration and Nationality Office and the National Health Insurance Fund are transferred to government offices at territorial level. The division of government offices into administrative bodies and core offices shall cease. The government office will now consist of departments directly managed by the government commissioner and district offices in the capital district. Internal integration causes significant organisational changes because by reducing the number of levels of management, autonomous administrative bodies and core office departments are merged into integrated, functional and professional departments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I'm sorry, I can only speak in singles now if the congressman goes out. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The proposal aims to bring about a clear change in the legal system. The aim is to further centralise and pave the way for the completion of the central political will without obstacles. That's what the bill says. The standard text states that the Prime Minister has a political and professional responsibility for exercising the mandate and powers of the government commissioner. As we know, political responsibility is measured by the effectiveness of fulfilling political orders. This will be done in practice by making only one phone call to the Prime Minister, and the government commissioner will already issue a permit, a fine and all other requests that the Prime Minister will like. This is an attempt to eliminate the autonomy of administrative bodies and thus to overcome the reluctance caused by possible professional concerns. It seems that the political order system is being implemented, the risk of which was expressed by the MSZP in the parliamentary debate of the bill on government offices as early as the autumn of 2010. In addition, with the elimination of internal fragmentation, hundreds of departments can be created, which can create professional leadership chaos in practice. And if the internal organisational structure is adapted to the type of task or process, they will achieve exactly what they were supposed to avoid. Because of the solution that in all relevant laws, in each decision taken, only the name of the government office may be included, thus concealing the department acting in a specific case, we can rightly refer to this bill as the bill of facelessness. Not considering the right of the government's public administration to transform - we have never done that - it must be noted that it is extremely unthinkable that independent units with special tasks will be merged, thus creating an opaque, uncontrollable gigantic structure only to see a nice round unit from the outside of the administration. In the emerging autumn, cases are stalled, deadlines are pushed out, so ultimately the client, the citizen, faces it, whether there is a government window or more, nothing can be done in this system within a reasonable time. The bill itself, by eliminating the name of public administrations, defaces the current administrative bodies, typically removes administrative bodies from the legal system with text-changes, and displays the government office itself everywhere in the various sectoral laws. [[15.40]] It is only in the legal language where the government office has both an official and a professional role, in which cases there must be a greater legal spell. The details of this are not known, because the rules governing the examination of the technical question should be in order in the chaos that has arisen. It is also amazing that, without impact studies, variations, discussions, they want to introduce such a system in the absence of all relevant sectoral legislation, as they normally do, because the Parliament cannot make an informed decision following substantive professional debates. Therefore, only time will determine whether the bill of facelessness will in practice become a law of insolence. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Cost-effectiveness is often the government's argument for full integration of territorial administration. The reduction in the number of senior managers, the integration of service departments providing daily operations, infrastructure and human resources can indeed result in some savings, but it is feared that this is not what the government expects real savings. The creation of large-scale organisations is likely to prepare for the withdrawal of a large-scale budgetary resource. The budget and the reduction of the number of public administrations that used to operate independently would be a far too striking step, but to withdraw HUF 10-20 billion from the budget of government agencies that are supposed to be holding HUF 155 billion for the future will be significantly less spectacular and significantly less likely to result in political scandals. The risk of this is particularly high, given the fact that the Orbán government has, in the absence of a real economic policy concept, been using lawnmower lawnmower law every year, lied about withdrawals in order to maintain the budget deficit target. It is clear that gigantic government agencies with seemingly huge budgets can even more easily be victims of imaginative budget cuts. Now, as I look around, I can say for sure: my fellow Member of the Government. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: I'm here too!]] The image previously produced by the merger of independent public administrations is deceptive. While Deputy State Secretarys, Ministerial Commissioners and political advisors to Fidesz are already at each other's heels in the ministries, government officials working in regional and local bodies dealing with the affairs of citizens and businesses are working in increasingly deteriorating working conditions every year. Some of these financial difficulties threaten the functioning of regional and local administrations. As a result of the withdrawal of the notaries' administrative tasks and the nationalisation of the offices of documents, problems arise even in settlements where municipalities have previously been able to ensure a higher quality of operation by using their own resources and by developing their own good practices. Obviously, Mr. Secretary of State knows that as a former mayor. The bleeding out of the administration at territorial and local level can also be clearly seen from the 2013 closure report submitted by the Government. I would like to quote here the following findings on the operation of the government offices, among other things, in the closing accounts:. The closing net value of the government offices' assets shows an increase due to the assets received in connection with the establishment of district offices, but the assets received at the time of the establishment of government offices have become old and worn out. And now there is an important sentence:, The value of the assets is about a third of the total value of the assets described to zero. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The value of purchases during the year represented nearly twice the value of the assets transferred, but the value of the assets described up to zero continued to increase. This means that the assets have continued to grow old and that the acquisition of new assets has failed to compensate for depreciation. But let me get you another quote. At the end of 2013 the total short-term liability is HUF 17 billion 278 million, which represents a significant increase of 77.9 percent compared to HUF 9 billion 713 million at the end of 2012. This means that government agencies have not been able to fulfil their financial obligations. By the way, this has also been discussed here in another debate before Parliament and highlighted as a criticism, Mr Secretary of State. Minister János Lázár is responsible for the efficiency, professionalism and financial controls of government offices. We are curious about the consequences. It is likely that you will also try to introduce a 10-hour working day at government offices, but if you really want to pursue a family-friendly policy, I will be interested to know who you will employ as employees when these jobs will not be family-friendly. There is no doubt, of course, that with the complete grinding of previously independent bodies, the disappearance of the responsible managers of the administrative bodies, further restrictions will face even less resistance. What is even more painful is that the complete abolition of the autonomy of public administrations is likely to be used to prepare the redundancies announced by János Lázár. It is recalled that at the press conference on 22 October 2014, Lazarus spoke with considerable openness about the government's intention to reduce the number of employees in the public sector. By setting up fully integrated government offices, it will not even be obvious at first sight if some previously independent bodies are put on the street. Moreover, with the cessation of administrative bodies, the technical aspects of both further restrictions and layoffs can be completely eroded. It will depend solely on the decision of the government commissioners appointed as political Commissars to lead government offices to see how certain areas of expertise will suffer the years ahead. Of course, I understand that everyone has hated bureaucracy for as long as they've existed, and so has politics. Accordingly, cutting red tape is always a very popular political endeavour. I am aware that most of the population will in the beginning hardly shed tears about cuts in public administration or cuts in government officials. However, I would warn everyone not to sit up for this ancient demagoguery. The downsizing and bleeding of local and regional administrations can have very serious consequences. It should also be clear that these consequences will not be faced by Fidesz party leaders exploiting the public administration for their own purposes. The powers of government officials at the head of government offices, such as the temporary transfer of government officials, the imposition of overwork, the imposition of ad hoc tasks not included in the job, ensure the immediate and consistent implementation of central instructions. Citizens and businesses dealing with matters will face the consequences of cuts and austerity. They and the entire Hungarian economy will suffer further decline in the quality of public administration in the long term. The 2013 closure report shows the real situation in which the transformation with this bill is based. Several times in the accounts, it was stressed that both the government windows and the government administration system themselves were in difficulty, and it was necessary to maintain the operation of a very tight management system. New integration is not based on professional rationality, but on political considerations. The heads of government agencies, the government commissioners, in the interest of the concentration of power in Orbán, are finally occupying and overcoming professionalism. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party does not give its consent and vote, but strongly rejects this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-16-221	As KDNP fraction is not present [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties: Why not? It's disbanded. It's gone.]] That's why I'm not even gonna ask you if you want to talk to him. I therefore give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-12-16-222	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I will try to express our views in a concise and meaningful manner, as far as possible. My colleague, Gergely Bárándy, was right about a lot of things, and I must say that this issue would be accessible in a professional way. [[15.50]] However, we do not like to see mines placed in your legislation, disguised as professional, and the operation of government offices being transformed and integrated into administrative bodies so that they can also provide an easier opportunity for abuse. In this case, and especially in view of the experience of the last five years, we must think that these processes do not happen by accident. If we look at the general justification of the bill, it is obvious that general slogans are used as justifications: efficiency gains, implementation of the government's territorial responsibility, efficiency, effectiveness, reduction of bureaucracy, customer-friendly administration, to mention only the main ones. Of course, it can be said that, but good, who does not want a cheaper operation, who does not want efficiency to increase, who does not want to see the decisions of certain or administrative bodies closer to the citizens. It's hard to argue with that. I do not want to argue with the principles that have been well formulated, but with the way you are trying to achieve this; in many cases, the last five years have shown that, in the background of the fine principles, those have not always been implemented, or what we can consider to be integration or efficiency gains, has often meant an increase in abuses. For example, the explanatory statement also states that single purchases, such as central vehicle management, are an important area, by the way, in parentheses, but I do not believe that this is the most likely issue; car management is not the main problem, which should be resolved mainly towards citizens. But you say that these were significant savings, but we wanted to see that if they had already been able to show such great glory in this area, you would say that it could then have been supported by numbers. I think that my fellow opposition Members would very much like to see that these were indeed supported, indeed effective measures, and that if you showed how many billions could be saved with this new system, that they combined certain operations and purchases, then you could say yes, then we could even bow our heads. But that's not what we saw. Moreover, this is mainly, so after the adoption of the budget, I think it is a bit comical to say that a single and transparent budget will be set up, so that if these administrative bodies are brought under government offices, their budgets will be made more transparent on this basis, for everyone. Well, I'd like to signal to Mr. Secretary of State and the two government representatives present. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervenes.]] "We would have two-thirds of the opposition, Mr. Secretary of State, before you tell us how many of us we are - but the point is that when we discussed the budget, we discussed Hungary's budget, we raised the problem of the fact that, let's say, in the case of police headquarters, the county police offices or even universities, these items have unfortunately been explained in detail - here the detailed explanation, let's say, how much the ELTE has a budget and how much the National Assembly intends for this purpose, so let's take this into account - so, unfortunately, these items have been made very large in Hungary's budget. So the reference here to the fact that in the future the operation of government agencies and their budget will be more transparent, I feel that it is not justified. They could refer to the fact that if they had explained in detail, not only this year's budget, but also last year's budget, how much they were devoted to not only the county government offices, but also the institutions under them, or even the district offices, this could have been added to the budget. But moving on to what is being integrated, for example. In the case of environmental and nature protection inspectorates, one wonders whether the expertise that has been accumulated there can be transferred to the government offices in such a way that it is not damaged and can be carried out equally efficiently and with the same expertise or with at least such expertise; this raises questions in me. And, for example, my fellow Member Schiffer, I know how he is going to address the subject, and I would not go further on this point, which is precisely why, but I am quite certain that the integration of mining stations is completely unnecessary. You are referring to bringing people closer to their day-to-day affairs - well, you don't go to the mining station every day. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who is he?]] You're one of them. [[Defiance.]] Well, there may be people here in this Chamber or in the National Assembly who may even have relatives involved in mines. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: This is a bad joke.]] But I have to say, it may be a bad joke, Mr. Secretary, but I haven't even been to the mining station as a lawyer. I know what it is, and I know how it works, and it may be my fault, but not only do I, but the average citizen doesn't get in direct contact with the mining station or the mining captain. Or those entrepreneurs who have to move a little bit to move these things around with a settlement, I don't think that's such a big problem. So the integration of mining stations is difficult to explain. Of course, you may be able to explain this in detail, but I will tell you what our explanation is, and you will probably deny it, but the point is that I do not see a reasonable explanation. Then - and I draw attention to the fact that the aim is still to make access to services easier for citizens - is to take over part of the duties of the Immigration and Nationality Office. Well, I don't really get it either, but the justification is not enough detail as to what we would like to bring closer to citizens in terms of immigration matters. Mr. Secretary, I'd like you to explain this. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He was in the expozee.]] You may be able to convince me, but it's not one of those things you run to every day, especially when you get citizenship. Yeah, the expo had a lot on it, but we couldn't get an explanation. In the case of land offices, on the one hand, I have a concern that the land administration system is a closed system, it requires considerable expertise, it can have enormous implications for the possibility of error, even in terms of its volume, the violation of the law can be enormous if it does not function properly, and the system of land offices has, by the way, been modernised a lot lately, and I think that people can handle these tasks broadly. They may not come into contact with this as often as the day - to - day business in district offices. On the move, what could possibly be the reason why you're trying to do this? I believe that my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, is not far from the truth when he thinks that we need to give some sort of truth here, and unfortunately, we can see a breeding ground for abuse. I could also say that they want to create a one-gate system that is not a one-gate for clients, but a one-gate for abuse. So it is enough to call one person - perhaps that is what my fellow Member said. Yeah, it's enough to call one person, and from the land office to nature conservation, the mining department - how interesting, isn't it? - and it's possible to solve everything through cases involving the mining department. It's enough to pick up the phone, and you don't have to call someone else at the head of the land office, or maybe look for contact details with the mining captain, they don't have a problem with that; it might take days to find the sewers. We need someone, say, to call the government commissioner, and he can instruct these so far independent bodies to act. And by the way, there's one downside that if we integrate everything, the expertise will definitely be damaged. I'm pretty sure of that. Right now, there's a trend in bureaucracy that the administrators don't dare to decide, but sometimes even the bosses don't. This is very painful, but in recent years, this practice has been strengthened to make a simple decision, even if the legislation is absolutely clear. Now, with the creation of these blenders, it's only gonna get stronger. I also do not understand why the law is supplemented by a written decision by the government commissioner to temporarily acquire employment-related employers' rights in respect of government officials and employees of the district office. [[16.00]] It makes sense only if the government commissioner - understand: political commissar, because it is not possible to say anything else, and it is especially difficult to deny that in the last term MPs, clearly linked to Fidesz, have been appointed by the Fidesz only as government commissioners in the spirit of the Fidesz, so the government commissioner - not only can he order this, we have often criticized that he may be involved in certain matters, he can take on certain matters, but he can also take over employer rights on the basis of this amendment; he can temporarily take over. I can't imagine at the moment what a natural, decent, bona fide attitude would require this entitlement if it was the government commissioner who was exercising control at the office anyway. But you are going beyond that and, beyond the hierarchy of office, I would like to exercise employers' rights directly for some workers. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It looks to me like they're making laws, then they realize they're missing out on certain areas. So the government commissioner can't go to the case manager Kovács Pista. Obviously, it's a fictional name, so don't go after Pista Kovács as she's in the joke, the example is just fictitious, but unfortunately it can happen. So they realized that they couldn't exercise employers' rights directly, but they had to instruct Pista Kovács' boss to do this or that. And maybe he's saying that he doesn't fire or discipline Pista Kovács, because, let's say, his sin isn't too great, maybe he doesn't carry out an instruction that comes from above and pushes the legal framework. In that case, you may temporarily assume the employer's authority. Unfortunately, this proposal must not only be fair, it must also be seen. In this case, the government will open another doorway that I believe will not improve the administration system. Or if it can be shown in certain areas that it may work more effectively, that is, of course, good, and we are pleased to do so, but it opens up a lot of opportunities for abuse that should not be. Believe me, we would very much have liked the government to operate as a whole system of administration independent of politics or party politics or daily politics. But it's really hard to imagine that if you appoint even active Members of Parliament for these positions, it's hard to say that they're not tied to politics or attached to Fidesz. [[To intervene:]] And most of all, they're connected to the Prime Minister - that's right. As long as we see this system strengthened in the country, we cannot support these proposals, especially at a time when we see that Fidesz MEPs and Fidesz leaders are getting richer, they cannot account for the goods that are officially on their names, and how much they may not yet have. And in a system like this, it's like you're asking for trust to give us an extra license, and we're definitely not gonna abuse it. Even if the experience of the last five years proved that there was no abuse, it would be difficult for us to do so. Unfortunately, based on the above, we can't give our consent. We believe, as a closing point, that the last bodies that have worked without a political commissar have been integrated, or that it has taken more phones to intervene in cases where appropriate. Unfortunately, these last bastions bleed to death, and, as I said, the real one-gate system will be implemented, just not for the customers, but for the Prime Minister and his circles of friends. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-16-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. Following the LMP Group, the LMP indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. A total of 15 minutes are available for the LMP Group. I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, the fragmented administration system that was present in Hungary after the change of regime could in many cases be rightly criticised. But what's up ahead, and what's happened in the last four to five years, is really the top of everything. That is exactly the opposite extreme, where the Hungarian state administration held in the early 1990s. They are making little balls out of government offices, and I wish to correct my fellow Member Staudt only in so far as they are not creating a one-gate, one-phone system. The Commissars have been appointed head of the administration, in a way that they probably didn't dare in the communist system. Open party politicians sit in the leading positions of the Hungarian state administration. They're not particularly ashamed of that. This is how button printers who voted in favour of the Fundamental Law and public-law bullshit were paid. They got a well-paying client job. From this point on, the Hungarian administration is politically easier to manage than it could be held in hand in the '80s. That's the thing. Today, the government will be easier to move under the influence of this law than, let us say, János Kádár and the Central Committee of the MSZMP could move it. The situation is that, of course, there is truth in what our fellow Member Vigh has said. He's been gone since then, so the Fidesz faction is down to one. Of course, public administration, public administration, must be brought closer to the people. It's just, when it comes to bringing an administrative task, an administrative service, closer to the people, it doesn't matter that we're talking about a mining station, we're talking about an immigration office, or we're talking about a family support system. Therefore, it is quite simply irrational to manage the entire administration in a homogeneous way, regardless of the characteristics of the sectors. The only thing that can be seen from this concept is that they represent the guiding principle that only Fidesz, and as in your party, the rule that everyone's existence is in the hands of Viktor Orbán, this rule is ringing throughout the Hungarian government administration. When I say that it is not possible to manage the entire administrative system in a homogeneous way from the point of view of what territorial division and what integration is recommended or even counter-proclaimed for effective functioning, I think it is worth looking at what is being carried out by administrative authority, the administrative system. There was a Prime Minister here in this room, who took over the Prime Minister's seat four years ago by ending the world of private interests overtaking public interest. I think that this statement is exactly as true as what he said a year ago, not to listen to what I'm saying, but to what I'm doing. For the past four years, I'm pretty sure private interests are ahead of the community interest. You know, Mr Secretary of State, when we hear that public administration or administrative control, it is not bureaucracy that should be considered. It is not the tax forints that need to be considered to maintain bureaucracy, but, above all, to think that there are Community interests that the community must pursue in relation to private interests. If Viktor Orbán really was in favour of community interests, he would not destroy, for example, the environmental and nature conservation organisation system. There would be more money for the Consumer Protection Authority or the Public Health Service. All this bullshit you're doing here, it means you're cutting the community's barriers to greedy capital. There should be no environmental and nature conservation organisation, no consumer protection, no public health organisation that could be a barrier to fidesz oligarchs or multinational investors with you. That's what I'm talking about. And one more thing: in this bill there is a rather shady rule of the 9. Article 39 of the Nature Conservation Act, which rewrites it with a loose move. §8 of the EC Treaty. So far it has been the year LIII. law, the Nature Conservation Act required, on a compulsory basis, that if an investment made either by the Public Machine or by the Market, or by other buddies, has a direct impact on protected natural areas, then the nature conservation authority must be required to act. You are now amending this rule and, with a feather stroke, virtually nullifying the nature conservation authority system. [[16.10]] It is said that the nature conservation authority is only involved in the cases specified in the government decree. Now, the fact is that this rule is against the law, and it is against the law because there is a decision of the Constitutional Court of 18/1994 which, on the basis of the constitution at that time, forbade the reduction of the level of protection that had already been achieved, a number of ombudsman's decisions confirmed that. The fact is that the Fundamental Law, which we have rightly and often criticized, happens to have gone even further in the interests of future generations than the relevant pass of the constitution that we have ever had. So this demotion of the nature conservation organisation system is obviously and seriously in violation of the Fundamental Law that you have imposed on Hungary, by the way. And the intention is very obvious, because it is precisely the nature conservation and water management system that cannot be divided as, say, the social, building management system or mining stations. Quite rightly, there was a tradition in Hungarian environmental management law that tried to follow the river basin principle, which tried to follow the principle that the Carpathian Basin itself is an organic ecological system, which, although bordered by limits, cannot be established on an administrative basis, thinking with a head of state administration about how the powers and territorial competence of an environmental, nature conservation or water management body should be defined. You are now integrating all environmental, nature conservation and water management into this baby ball. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: There is no water issue!]] However, Mr Secretary of State, in recent years, the environmental authorities have been very uncomfortable, whether in the case of Roman-coastal dam construction, various loggings or large investments. Orbán announced the programme of reindustrialisation, it is clear that he wants to remove all obstacles and push me out of the way of the reindustrialization madness. Your prime minister does not mind that if our natural values fall victim, it does not bother him that virtually all environmental controls will cease before megaloman investments, it does not bother him that if such megaloman investments happen to result in the fatal contamination of drinking water, the soil. One thing should be noted: public administration is not merely bureaucracy. Perhaps a responsible government or a responsible government representative - if he were still here - should not go down to this tabloid level. Viktor Orbán has announced that you will put Community interests first over private interests. This proposal, on the other hand, means that some people's private interests, some private use, some large capitalists' private use, profit will be put to the forefront of natural values, natural interests, and profit will be given priority to the interests of future generations, which is what this proposal is all about.
u2014-12-16-225	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, who is another lead speaker at the LMP. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is mildly comical that we are here before Christmas, and the pro-government benches are empty, there is a fidesz MEP in there, and we should be debating him, because the opposition seems to be in a similar position to this proposal. I just don't understand why they're doing this, bringing a debate here at the last minute, and then not showing up at their own debate. I believe that this is unacceptable, and I say that they are not screwing with us, but at all with their constituents, who have sent you here to defend the honour of the munter in precisely these situations, in this case they are defending the indefensible. I'm going to pick up where Andrew left off, and it's unacceptable that - we've been watching this movie for a while now - the bleeding out of the green authority. It has already been pushed down our throats that she was placed in the position of a false language examination, a blessing-educated director-general in charge of the institution - I'm talking about Katalin Tolnainé Szatmári - and she was held in office. I would add that this is a very important office, a place where we should face the government a lot, and precisely because of future generations, because of environmental values. You have not respected this, and you have constantly cut the rights of this institution by means of priority investments and by amending the nuclear law. The restrictions came, the lockdowns came, they were practically constantly demoting this office, and now they're practically completely plowing it; that's what the law says. In this law, the professionals who worked there are now virtually government officials, and they would be expected to contradict the government. In what cases? We all remember going out to the House: they made Kossuth Square a stone jungle here on taxpayers' money; there are the Roman-coastal trees, there is the Roman-coastal dam building - all areas where such an authority would have a very serious task of protecting that affected area from destruction. That's what you're bleeding out completely. Plus, I can't say enough that the structure of the transformation is completely irrational. Dear Secretary of State, You just yelled at me, said it wasn't about water. Yes, the Orbán project was the one who operated on water from environmental and nature control, yes, it was you, but regardless of the river basin principle, these areas were organized and operated because of this... [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: It's true now!]] Yeah, that's right, and that's why it doesn't make sense to put them under county government offices, which, on the other hand, has a lot more of them, each county gets one. Starting from this point on, this is completely irrational, and indeed raises constitutional concerns. As such, the independent green authority is the most important institutional guarantee of the right to a healthy environment. If they make this institution a government office, then constitutional law will no longer prevail, and the constitution will be violated, as we say. The other is that according to our information, the intimidation of the office's employees has already begun. We have information that you communicate that there is no need to overwhelm environmental and nature protection, because the government's industrialisation and investment plans must not be disrupted by all kinds of official pranks. Dear Secretary of State, I think you need to be very distracted. The job of an authority is to control the government's activities in this regard. I find it absolutely impossible for you to remove the independent green authority from the path of government abuse in this way. By the way, I would add that there was an independent green authority in Hungary even before the change of regime. Exactly how many decades do you want to go back in time about this? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Article XXI We live in the century, where environmental and natural problems are only increasing. You don't want to lead us back to a time when they haven't been this intense. Be kind and consider this, because under no circumstances can we support this change. And what they're doing with the employment institution system is completely incomprehensible. Every time they touched this organization, people got hurt. The termination of the National Labour Inspectorate is remembered by several people, practically from the moment this oversight function was merged into the government office, it did not improve the situation. The number of labour inspectors has been reduced, resources withdrawn from the system and controls have been reduced. The situation has not improved for the past four years. You had one thing to do: to examine the impact of the restructuring that has been carried out in recent years. That should have been appreciated, because this bill is about you moving on this path. But how do they know if they're on the right track if they don't appreciate the impact of what they've done so far? I do not believe that, when the State Reform Committee met on 4 November, it would have revealed the lessons of the past in this respect, but rather that I think that it is simply that you want to centralise, whatever it takes. The Possibly Other Politics stands up to be precisely a more effective, more human-centred and better regulation, but it will not be implemented this way. We're looking at the exact opposite. Now there is a system in which people are already playing ping-pong with people, sending it back and forth between the labour center, the local government and the government office. I think we should have an institution that can accommodate these people and settle all their problems there, but that's not what you're doing. It just became official today that the National Labour Office would be terminated. I think it's a testament that you don't care at all about what happens to people. So far, it has not been the National Labour Office that has prevented labour centres from operating effectively, but, for example, that they have not received enough money to carry out their duties. By beating up this office, they will practically make sure that no one is able to give the government feedback that their thinking about employment is completely wrong. There is no job creation and accordingly there are no real programmes to change the country's structural problems. And the remodeling of the family support system is quite simply, really amazing. You are transferring it from the MÁK to the district offices, which means that until 1 March, you will only want to turn around 400,000 customers into a completely different system in Budapest. I'm sorry, but in recent years, we haven't been convinced that there's such a coordination capacity in the government and in the government's close offices that we can do that. I think it's the people who are going to get hurt again. In addition, I would remind you that tens of millions of forints of EU money have recently been spent on modernising MAK's customer windows. What about these refurbished places, exactly? Plus, what about the employees? So what do you tell them before Christmas? They say they'll offer them new jobs, but if the M.A.A. has less to do, where will these new jobs come from? In addition, they said in the M.A.K. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that it was supposed to be an impact assessment. Where is this impact assessment, Mr. Secretary of State? [[16.20]]
u2014-12-16-227	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member has not indicated that he wants to speak [[Intercoms from the opposition: Where are they? Yeah, where are they?]] I can only say this because it is not present, so two-minute speeches will follow. András Schiffer, LMP asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. What I really don't understand is why they're not consistent in this supercentralization policy. If all the authorities are to be worked up in a single small ball government office, I think we should also stop this clowning called the Ministries. We need to shut down all the ministries, just enough of the Prime Minister's Office - don't we? Even so, János Lázár is slowly a super-minister, the ministries have been no longer fulfilling their function for many years. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt and Dr. Zoltán Kovács intervene.]] They'll consider it, yes, I'm very curious about that. I am very curious about how this is going to work, as well as government, Mr. Secretary of State. Since the elections, there has been no meaningful governance in this country. And one of the reasons for this is the structural problem that, since the second Orbán government, ministries have been simulating the task that the Fundamental Law is installing on them. The preparation of substantive legislation has not been carried out in the ministries in recent years, but who knows where; and besides, a chancellor and the Prime Minister now exercise substantive supervision over the administration system, rather than the wallet. In fact, in a sense it is not possible to talk about wallets either, since this is something called the Resource Ministry, but not the Ministry, it is quite certain. Thank you.
u2014-12-16-229	Thank you very much. As there are no more two-minute words, now we have announced speakers. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, who was the first to apply. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-230	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. With regard to the restructuring of the administration, all I've seen in the last five years is that when you touched this story, it was always a problem. I could give you a lot of examples: Bernadett Szél also mentioned the question of the audit offices involved in the field of labour affairs, the issue of the office, its reorganization, the implications of competence and staff and much more. However, I would not start here, but there, in addition to Mr Secretary of State, with great respect, among the walls of Parliament, Mr János Pócs Fidesz, who alone honours the debate on the part of the governing party, on the part of the governing parties - yes, a unanimous applause, yes. So, the point of the matter is, when, and when, in line with the restructuring of the administration, there is so much interest on your part, I once again assume what I said in my previous sentences that a lot of good can't be expected from all the things you're putting on the road. Especially when the Secretary of State says in his introductory thoughts, in his expo, that 2010: we are in power. I think that's not what public administration is about, or shouldn't be about that. That's supposed to be about duty. The Secretary of State is likely to confuse the concepts, confuse his daily practice with what he would otherwise have to continue. Because you can't really talk about service, and you can't even talk about a state of service based on the experience of the last few years. The State of Service, which I approach with a small detour, cannot call itself the State of Service, which, for example, brings down restrictions on the social front in 2015, for example, as you know very well, the exception of nearly HUF 70,000 million from the system, can not be called the State of Service itself, because the services also require a financial background. Services without a financial background have zero equivalent or negative content. But in terms of debauchery, what you call a service may seem good. Or I'll give you another example by reducing social resources, say, for NAV services, you know, the National Tax and Customs Office. A multitude of services or services of a type that lead to bans or types of services - let me say, another kind of services, Mr Secretary of State - which is about what we have discussed today under a law that creates a situation for businesses that if the NAV takes a decision that is not too promising and encouraging for the enterprise, then the company would appeal in vain, before the appeal is assessed, whether it can take over its supply of goods and many others, the company may be destroyed; then the appeal may result in a year or two and the company will no longer be able to operate and operate again, because it has practically ceased to release its people. Now, these are the services you provide for people and society. Of course, the state of service, which, to say, is now not only lurking around corruption, but could go further on this path, where it leads, a multitude of services of this kind and many ways are available, can be seen and felt in recent years. I think that everything you do in this regard is nothing more than a country destruction. There is a lot more to mention here, and it is also mentioned, either in line with their recent decisions, not open on Sundays, from closed on Sundays to, so to speak, blocking and ending the term of early retirement. Secretary of State, consider the concept of the State of Service, what it means in reality, what you are doing and what it should mean. This, according to my values, carries a kind of service, a service in the direction of the concentration of power in Orbán, to satisfy it - it carries it thickly in itself. If that is the case, then this is the way to go, I just think that sooner or later this journey will bring you bitter soup, bitter pills. Look, it was January 2011, if my memories didn't deceive me, when the integration of government agencies, i.e. the integration into government offices, began to be brought to life. This concentration of power has confirmed and demonstrated this contradiction in recent years, and in a sense it would also have given us the opportunity to detect errors. You didn't get to do that. Now, when 2015. CHAPTER III With effect from the 1st of October, they intend to expand this process, whether from the environmental and nature protection offices mentioned by my fellow Member Schiffer, through the mining offices to many others, from the outsourcing of tasks from the Hungarian Treasury through the Immigration and Nationality Office or from the outsourcing of some of the OEP's treasury tasks - the line could be continued - then I think they are not on the right track. I'm going to open it, not in every detail, but I'm going to open it up in certain places, why I think that way. For example, with regard to the Hungarian Treasury, and when they want to rearrange the processes for family support, except for the State Treasury and packed within the framework of district offices, and they say that they are making this activity service-friendly, this service, you are not telling the truth. Oh, that's not news anymore? We will find ourselves in the walls of Parliament every day. I'll tell you why not; just to be aware of it, or if you're not aware of it, you can use it at least inside, within your own interests, in connection with your internal disputes. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, not because what was in the MÁK, within the framework of the Hungarian Treasury, was a task and transferred to the district offices, this activity was practically operational at the level of the municipalities. The framework of the district offices overrides the municipalities. The government office is above the district offices. The MAK took this question in summary. In other words, you break it to the level of the district offices, while these things were also possible from the level of the municipalities. You are not opening and providing a service space for people, but you are concentrating precisely on them, closing those roads. [[16.30]] It's like, you know, they say he's a doctor; we leave brain surgery to the dentist. You are able to do this, you are able to choose such methods of procedure, and at the same time you think they are doing good. Even though I don't think they think they're simply doing what they're doing on the basis of their desire for power concentration. You know, Mr. Secretary, I think what you're doing is really just centralization. Not the higher level of professional care, no! It is about serving and enforcing political interests. About what my fellow Member Bárándy spoke plastically. That if the figures at the appropriate high level of power raise a phone, the intentions and wills that will be formulated at the end of the phone line will be properly implemented. It doesn't matter what the story is. Whether the story is about issuing permits, imposing fines or not imposing fines or whatever else, political interests are placed on the primary stage, and this, I think, is inappropriate. It's totally inappropriate. Not only is this not appropriate, but it is an abuse of political power over administrative bodies. It has already been said today that they are putting the process into the hands of political commissaries, and not professionalism will decide for the benefit of the people what will happen in the coming period. This is fundamentally inappropriate in our view. It is unthinkable, because special tasks are washed together in such a way that it is almost unmanageable, the merging of these surfaces is unacceptable. Uncontrollableness is also felt because mega or giga organizations are called to life at the level of which, without any referrals, properly control cannot be achieved. I therefore think that what you are doing is not about the person, it is not about the client, it is not about the interests of the people and the customers, but it is against the process in which we should move. Once again, I think it is a very bad way for political considerations to guide your thinking. But to give you a specific example, here is the National Labour Office. I'm going to open up the issue of the National Labour Office for you a little bit, so that it's clear to you. Obviously you are not a politician in this regard, you do not necessarily need to see this area, but I will help you to see this issue through. Whether Orbán, Lazarus, or any political player of the government, refers to their desire to take the processes in the direction where service-friendly activities take place. For example, this office, as you say, is not a well-trained bridge between employers and unemployed people. I just told you the Ministry of National Economy's creed in a sentence. What do you do? The National Labour Office is crushed, the employment health service, the work hygiene service is assigned to the medical office, the OSH, the employment part is transferred to the NGM apparatus, the training area is assigned to a national vocational training and adult training office. You know, when you talk about nationalism, I always think about what happened when the Labour Market Fund changed, you turned it into a National Employment Fund, and the resources in it decreased by ten billion forints. I don't think this is the way to go. But in terms of the job placement, which, as it were, carries the heavy puzzles, the only thing left the driver's licenses for the county employment centers and the offices at the district office level, even the things of public employment were moved to the Ministry of the Interior. You know, Secretary of State, when you're building up on a decade-long, decade-long scale into a service system that provides the services you're using to a multitude of people who, in a sense, are hungry for the help hand, it's not a mistake, it's a crime! It is simply a sin because people who are in this unacceptable, unthankful situation, losing their job opportunities, simply will not know when, where, and why, or could be used for certain services. The story is simply that you don't want to offer services, you don't want to show us the system of services building on each other, but maybe you're already trying to make sure that these services can't be reached by individual people or users. Well, it's not a service-friendly activity, it's exactly how a person is excluded from the customer's services. Once again, these are all unacceptable steps. Especially in the area where, most of all, a helping hand should be given to people in need of assistance. That's not what you do, that's not what you've done all these years. Think about it when someone has lost their job opportunity and you collect contributions from employers, workers, as you have done in previous periods. On the other hand, what are they doing? Not one third or one quarter of them are guaranteed that people who have lost their jobs can catch up with these resources, simply because you can only think in statistical images and want to manage processes in terms of public employment at all costs. And my last sentence is, once again, that this is not a service-friendly activity, this is a concentration of power, which is not in the interests of the people, not the interests of the customers. We should think about that and change that. I suggest, Mr Secretary of State, that you consider these and act accordingly in the future. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2014-12-16-231	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer asked for the floor on a case-by-case basis. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-232	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, The fact is that, in the spirit of the Act on Parliament and the provisions of the House Rules, Parliament's debate is about the debate between Members of Parliament. Right now, the ranks of pro-government factions are empty. With all due respect, I would like to make a point of order to the President to order a half-hour recess, in case there are any pro-government representatives, and we are able to continue the debate on the bill in substance. Thank you.
u2014-12-16-233	Thank you very much for your proposal, I do not consider it a point of order. [[János Pócs is entering the Chamber.]] Otherwise, all such offers or suggestions should come true as soon as possible as they have been, since a member of the government has already entered the room, so his demand has already been met. However, before I can give the floor to a normal applicant, on behalf of the Prime Minister's Office, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Kovács requests the floor. So now it's his turn. Here you go. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Finally we have a debate! Dr. Zoltán Kovács: I see you're cheering! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Unusual phenomenon!]]
u2014-12-16-234	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to state a few facts before we go astray in the further debate. One: the water system is not in the government administration system. I'd like to tell that to the LMP representatives. The other: those organisations with atypical competence, such as the environmental authority, have indeed not been part of the government administration system so far, but will continue to operate under the same rules of competence and competence in the coming period. As far as the procedure is concerned, everyone is making assumptions as to what kind of ordering system will go through this system, the government's administration system: this has not been the object of an objection. After all, decisions were taken by the so-called administrative bodies through the regulatory system, on the basis of legislation. It won't be any different. But if anything happens, every citizen in the system of redress has the opportunity to appeal to an independent court outside the system of public administration. Therefore, this system will be terminated at the court if, where appropriate, there is a breach of law. Therefore, the assumptions that have been made here with regard to the system of instructions are not true, since there is a system of redress in the Hungarian administration that repels any decision that has been misguided, or, if so, repeals it, and the rest, and the rest. That's what I wanted to tell you in chief. [[16.40]] As far as the system of the Hungarian Treasury is concerned, I would like to say to the fellow Members - if you would pay attention - that right now, the Hungarian Treasury system must go to the county centre for the family support system. Now the difference will be that you only have to travel to the walking chair, which means that the same service, the same IT system, will be used by the government office, and we will therefore bring the service that was in the county seat closer to the citizen. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]]
u2014-12-16-235	Thank you very much. We will continue with a speech asking for a normal word: Mr András Schiffer, as may be the case.
u2014-12-16-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable two-thirds majority! [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] First of all, Mr Secretary, I would like to start by saying that we may have a little bit of a time frame here. We have been denouncing my fellow Member that this recent change, which is in this proposal, will result in water management and environmental and nature conservation management being separated. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: He's been apart before.]] Environmental, nature conservation and water management is currently in an integrated management system organised by the river basin. That's what we talked about. And one more thing: the difference, isn't it, is that the environmental authority system currently has more or less professional control. Government agencies have no professional leadership, political commissaries have been appointed there in recent years. They didn't hide it in particular. Moreover, it is worth interpreting this whole situation as a whole with the relevant legislation. For example, here is the law from March 2006 presented by another Minister for Development, Bajnai Gordon, on priority investments, and this was voted by the then governing parties and Fidesz in great agreement. Since then, the key investment law has not been abolished, but has actually been put to the top, which is included in it. At present, the key investment law provides for the possibility of carrying out official procedures under political direction in the case of investments declared as priority. The circle is closing now. The administrative authorities which would represent a serious Community barrier to profit hunger will also be integrated into government offices governed by political commissars. The situation is terribly simple. It is one thing that my fellow Member, Barondy, referred to, that we do not know exactly how many public service jobs fall victim to this transformation. I think, Mr Secretary, that it is not enough for you to nod from the State Secretary's seat that impact assessments have been carried out. You are bound by the legislative law. The Parliament had an obligation to demonstrate what would make this organisation more appropriate and effective, which is also in the proposal; and it should also have shown how many posts in the public service would have been lost. When protecting jobs for public administration, we are not just talking about jobs or workers who are carrying out these administrative tasks today. When a drop-off wave takes place in public administration, it's not just the families where the seeker is an official. When the public administration is dismantled, it is very easy for the Community interest to be damaged. If we put together the mosaic, this bill, the changes that the Ministry of Interior has made in recent years in the key investment law, and we miss Viktor Orbán's outbursts about his reindustrialization plans, then the picture comes together. The thing is, in recent months, the new oligarchs have been designated to replace the Public Machine. They have concluded the pacts with multinational companies, under the protection of the key strategic partnership agreements, and they want to simply implement a reindustrialisation plan that they want to remove all ecological and social barriers. That is why labour inspectorates are being dismantled so that the workers' rights - what is left in this country at all - cannot be ironed in your oligarchs or in the multi-cons; that is why they are beating up and integrating environmental and nature protection supervisors into a government office managed by a political commissar, so that ecological barriers cannot be imposed against insane investments. That's what this plan is about, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-237	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr asked for two minutes, MSZP. Here.
u2014-12-16-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Just so everyone's clear and clear, it's not right - to put it mildly - what you're saying. It is simply not correct because, for example, for the family support administration of the MÁK, the county treasury, no one had to visit the county treasury - they didn't have to - because, you know, there is in Hungary, if I remember correctly, 3173 municipalities, nearly 3,200, the administration of cases, the launch of cases was open and could happen to anyone at any time within the municipality's framework, in the same way as in the case of government windows where the case is being opened. You know as well as I do, you can open 100-200 thousand government windows where you can start a case. After all, you'll end up starting a case where the case is handled. Within the framework of the municipalities, it was possible to initiate and launch these processes, so the case could be launched in the same way as in the case of government windows: it was not necessary to travel to the county treasury centre for individual customers to carry out their family support cases. So we shouldn't deceive people, we shouldn't suggest things that aren't right, and we should provide services that actually bring people to life in the interests of customers. This is the case, Mr Secretary of State, and I would like to say once again that it is not a matter of seeking a concentration of power, it is not a matter of meeting political needs, but, in contrast, it is in the interests of the people, the customers. Only you should learn what duty is. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-239	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In this case, as no further speeches have been made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-16-240	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I would like to begin by saying that, in practice, the reform of the administration, which started in 2011, has never been in the crossfire of political debates; neither locally nor anywhere else, even in the election campaign, so the established government and district administration system has not been attacked in any way, so to say. And the way a state develops its enforcement system has been, and will continue to be, a sovereign right of the current government. The administrative authorities, which are integrated, are of a small scale compared to the previous one, and this has not been a problem in the Government Office system either, since all two organisations are integrated, and the rest are entrusted to the Government Office. I do not want to deal with the assumptions raised here by the fellow Members; the test of pudding is eating, and the practice will develop this. If this is happening in the system we decided to do, then I think you deserve a mea culpa. As far as savings are concerned, every year I recommend to the fellow Members that the closing report be read, and there you can read what savings have been made. And I would also like to inform Mr Barándy that until 31 December of this year, government agencies will meet all their obligations, so government debt will run to zero, so everything will be paid out of its revenues. [[16.50]] The environmental authority has appeared several times. There will still be no change in this respect, as the atypical system of organisations supplying several counties is adapted to the water catchment area that my fellow Member Schiffer has objected to. [[Dr. Schiffer is talking to András Schiffer's fellow Members.]] I'll thank you if you listen. The Hungarian Treasury - I continue to say, Congressman - had to travel, since a separate customer service office was set up in the family support system, even if it shakes its head that it does not. I looked at this myself, and you can see it. [[Nándor Gúr's intervention.]] And people have traveled in to get the support systems. I'm not talking about starting a case, I'm talking about what they got from the family support system, and they're going to go to the end of the world anyway, because they need it. Now you don't have to travel to do this, but the district centre, which is much closer to the citizens, will carry out this task. In addition, there are government windows in the government system and some 260 government windows are created. This will mean 260 customer contact points for citizens where these cases can be opened, and, where appropriate, implementation will be carried out at the level of the same government windows, with an extension of about two thousand of your business partners, which was also mentioned in the Expoze: in the premises provided by local authorities in connection with the municipalities, with appropriate IT tools, local application and local administration is being carried out in the state cases to which the county had to go. As far as professional autonomy is concerned, there is still the possibility and the system that has been exercised by government administrative bodies, which, on the outside, will continue to act as administrative authorities for all kinds of procedures, so that the system will continue to function as administrative authority in the outward procedures, as I have told the LMP representative. That is what I wanted to suggest; if you read this in the bill, you will not make such a statement. Parallelism will be eliminated, as many of the administrative tasks that I think the new system is trying to eliminate have run side by side. Congressman Staudt has suggested that the government commissioner has the right to transfer employers. There are situations of life - for example, to tell you - where a district office may not be able to perform all tasks. For example, when Nokia ceased working for thousands of workers, a number of workers were transferred to the local employment agency to manage the affairs of citizens who could not have been provided by a labour agency alone. This will also provide an opportunity in the future for the single district office to work with administrators who can be transferred and where there is a greater need to carry out the task, they can be transferred within the single office, i.e. from a customer's point of view. You have always looked on the side of the structure, the concentration of power, and we have made our presentation from the side of serving citizens, creating a friendly public administration, and we intend to do our job accordingly. Types of territorial bodies which otherwise do not carry out official law enforcement activities, such as natur parks, remain outside the government system. The KLIK remains outside the government system, the GYEMSZI remains outside, so only the tasks of the law enforcement agency will be included, whether we look at the BÁH or OEP's regional office, which is organised in a regional organisation; today it will carry out county or district tasks. As far as our colleagues are concerned, we expect their work, as they have been in the public service, both for the district and for the adjutant and for the offices. But given the fact that the fellow Members are not particularly interested in what I have said to them, in this respect - András Schiffer is standing with his back and talking to his better fellow Member - I am finishing because the procedure they are pursuing against me is unworthy. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[János Pócs applauds.]]
u2014-12-16-241	Thank you very much. I assure you, Mr. Secretary, I watched you the whole time, so I heard you when you finished what you said. This was the final item on the agenda of today's sitting. It is also worth paying attention to the submission of amendments, so that they do not complain unnecessarily later - Thursday at 4 p.m. There's a possibility. In view of the fact that Parliament has decided on the urgent negotiation of the proposal, it is expected that decisions can be taken at the first meeting of the spring session. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Lukács, Mr Jobbik, has applied for a speech after today's agenda. I give you five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Tell me the past, and I'll know the future from it. - Confucius. When the end of the year approaches, it is natural for everyone to sum up their thoughts from the past year. You can look into what I've done this year, what I've achieved, what others have done this year. This is the year 2014 as I saw it: The year began with a surprise: someone, according to Árpád Kásler, wiped out a branch on Lehel Road. At that time, everyone was waiting for the Constitutional Court's decision on foreign exchange issues, since then it has appeared unnecessarily. The campaign started in January, and on 18 January it was revealed that the first election of the year would be on 6 April. So when the campaign started, the Hungarian team started in the spirit of this: it is true, not to Rio, but only to protect the Hungarian final castles. Meanwhile, Németh, a black belt, fought through the smallest settlements against the hidden, hidden coppers. In February, it turned out that it was worth making a so-called fake couple for the state's money. It was Valentine's Day again. True, this romantic period had little good for left-wing parties, rather than a happy wedding dance, the various forces ran around each other. In the parliamentary campaign, we learned that the Fászy party is the new nuclear bomb, and in fact, Pityu Bunner, if he founded a party, and with Little Count Jolly and Suzy, he would go through the countryside, not just two-thirds, but 101 percent in the elections. There was such a peace procession in March that Rákay Philip's meter also freaked out. Suddenly, many fidesz politicians also realized that they actually live in a larger house than they have been remembering for years; it must have been the decreasing volume of rent that caused the size of the luxury apartments in Budapest to grow. The stakes have also increased by one: it has become known that large amounts of money are packed in a plastic bag at MSZP, and even in Austria, one of the main MSZPs stores money in bank accounts. We've got the bad Wels case and the symphony camping, African black-lettering. The election came, and the next one was not mathematical. We also learned in the elections that what is 20 percent in the electoral districts and nationwide is 11 percent in Parliament. We learned that in the countryside the second force became Jobbik, in 140 settlements the couple became second. The winner took everything: the most macho parliament was established, with just a handful of countrymen. But there wasn't much to breathe, there was the European Parliament election. There was news of many things: Gábor Wide, one of the richest Hungarians, would build UFOs, perhaps in order to save Attila Pataky; they plowed Kishantos; they handed over the micro soccer arena on the Highway, with more seats than the village's inhabitants. On May 1, everyone had a May, even Gyula Thürmer, the eternal survivor of the modern political circus. Then the new Parliament was formed: many people said vows, many said words disguised as oaths. In June, the ad tax started to register, but it's government versus RTL Club war. They quickly rewritten the municipal law before the third election. Foreign exchange still hasn't moved forward according to the Curia's decision. We have learned that tax cuts can be made in favor of Andy Vajna, but the same does not apply to ordinary people: there is still a record VAT. The U.S. Secret Service wiretapping scandal continued ringing in the month of July. America can grow old at a rapid pace because it is very curious about us, you. We have become smarter because of age specificities, they don't go anywhere on foot after dark because of older citizens in rural areas and not because of the escalating crime. [[17.00]] Orbán talked about himself and his illiberal desires in Tusnádfürdő instead of the Hungarians, since then this word has become a hit in the unorthodox way. Summer was cucumber season, and political vegetables continued to grow. Many have gone on vacation, yet others have flooded our borders with hundreds of numbers in the night, day, summer, and ever since. Escape tsunami washes the sealess borders of our country. But there was no shutdown, in September, the air was back to campaign mood, and the clubs, their hidden party memberships, the strange wealth growths came back. Fidesz also reaped in the fall, even though if they had talked about their large-scale plans, the Internet tax, the M0 or the new municipal taxes... But at least we learned again that Jobbik became the second force, and Budapest blushed in the heat of the election. Ozd, Törökszentmiklós, Tiszavasvári, and so on, he's become a better man. Then came the autumn big factory delicacies. Now everyone from the newborn to the old man knows that Ildikó Vida can't play a game from America, the coat of arms of my profession [[Defiance.]] But it also means that many distant relatives in the Lazarus family can be fed up with lending, especially if they buy a 70 million-dollar apartment for the child. But there's never enough urizing, and Lajos Kósa didn't go rocking in the Pecsa, but he traveled 17,000 kilometers to New Zealand for it. Um... The banning scandal is raging, and it is now well known that you can fight raggrass with a pen, printer and jewelry, because this is what the Ministry did with public money, but we also learned that the move of the Prime Minister's Office to Castle will only take the money first, and then it will bring it. Luxury government, luxury Fidesz, luxury explanation, that's for sure. Well, here's what we're talking about. I think we've had this year, but we've got almost three weeks left. So I talked about the past, and the question is, can you see the future from it? Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-16-243	Thank you very much for the subjective summary, we've learned a lot from it, 15 seconds more than we could have. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's all it takes.]] I could totally do that. That's why I didn't break it. So now you will be given the opportunity to speak with some delay, Mr László Kiss, MSZP. You have the floor, please.
u2014-12-16-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think it's the third one. I'm not the only resident in the district with a ragweed allergy. But I'm not the only resident who's never been a victim of this allergy this summer. That's interesting because B/806. A report on food chain surveillance and the use of food chain monitoring fees has been presented to the House, and there are also branches of this in connection with the removal of ragweed that are worth talking about. In 2013, the municipal parlagfű notification system was developed on behalf of the FVM, which, according to the report, effectively supports the official procedures for areas infected with inland parlagfű as of 2014. The source of the development was provided by the FVM to support the implementation of public protection against ragweed. In November 2013, Nébih organised and organized a national series of 20 lectures for the municipalities, in which they presented the operation of the ragweed reporting system. The success of this series of lectures is well demonstrated by the fact that 500 out of 3200 municipalities registered in this system, which were the municipalities that considered this government project to be of minimal importance, while the latter did not reach 2700 municipalities. Information material made out in 28 380 copies at the title "Parlagfű kisokos" for schoolchildren. This has reached about 900 primary schools, so it can also be said that the non-scene number of primary schools received this material. The Nébih helped to raise public awareness of the dangers caused by the ragweed during the Hungarian days in Cluj and by participating in the Szivor festival. As a subjective user, I think that, whether in July, August or September, as an allergic reaction to the threat of ragweed, I have learned pretty much everything about it, because thanks to the lack of government measures, many allergic partners are not only the third. I was in the district, but in the country, I was in pain that I hadn't seen before. Perhaps it would have been more useful to devote resources to this. Given that the health problems caused by ragweed - as I have already said - affect a significant number of the population, a number of questions arise when you read this report. Where can the registration currently be? By what means does Nébih think that more municipalities should participate in this system? Or do they make it mandatory? How effective is a system in which 500 out of 3200 municipalities are registered? What tools does the government use to protect against ragweed instead of the amazingly scandalous tools already revealed? It is important to inform schoolchildren, and it is also important that this programme has reached 900 schools, but is this appropriate information? Is this the right way to fight for degreasing? How useful is it to take part in the Hungarian days in Cluj or at the Vidor Festival for Nébih, when we have to fight the ragweed in Hungary? How can this be inserted into this goal, how can it be integrated into the operation of the municipal ragweed reporting system? These questions arose when I read this account, and it would be good to have an answer to them. Of course, the removal of ragweed will not happen because these accounts facilitate it, but will happen if, for example, the tax resources provided by Hungarian people are spent on what the government needs, for example, for the removal of ragweed; it will happen if not fake conferences are organised with all kinds of money, but actually for the removal of ragweed. I propose to the government - although I do not see a great deal of interest at the moment in the direction of deflecting ragweed; I hope that in 2015 there will be a greater interest in this subject - that you consider these points, because I do not believe that we are few people who do not want to endure the same pain that the government has made in this summer. At the same time, I wish you all a blessed Christmas and a happier new year with no rags. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-16-245	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member, MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-246	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Humility and love are essential qualities for those who are leaders. The citizens, especially if they are Catholics, should not be indifferent to politics - emphasized Pope Francis on Monday, September 16 at his Holy Mass in the chapel of St. Martha's House on Monday morning. He invited those present to pray for the authorities. In the daily gospel, the centurion humbly and confidently asks for the healing of his servant, and in his letter to Timothy, Saint Paul, we pray for the leaders. These were the beginnings of Pope Francis when he spoke in his sermon about the ministry of the authorities. A leader must love his people, for a leader who does not love his people cannot govern. At best, he can discipline, clean up a little bit, but he can't steer. The pope meant David, who loved his people very much, who, after the sin of the census, told the Lord not to punish my people, but me. So the two virtues of leaders are love and humility for the people. You can't steer without these. Every person in the lead must ask you two questions: do I love my people so that I can serve them better? Am I humble and listen to the others, the different opinions, so that I can choose the best way? Without these, no one will be a good leader. The leader who loves his people is humble. On the other hand, Saint Paul encourages leaders to pray for all in power to lead a calm and peaceful life. Citizens must not turn away from politics. No one can say I don't care, they're driving. No! I'm responsible for the way they drive, and I have to do everything I can to steer well, and I have to participate in politics as I can, as the Holy Father put it. Politics is one of the highest forms of love, according to the church's social teaching, because it is the service of the common good. So I cannot wash my hands. [[17.10]] We all have to do something! - warned Pope Francis. There is a habit of saying bad things about government and gossiping about things that aren't going well. When we watch TV shows or read newspapers, they always say the wrong thing, they just disagree,' said the Holy Father. The leader may be guilty - as King David was - but I too must contribute to the leadership with my opinion, my words, and my correction, because we all have to be involved in building the common good. We often hear that a good Catholic does not get involved in politics. That's not true. This isn't the right way. The good Catholic participates in politics, offering the best he can, so that the leader can govern. But what is the best we can offer the leaders? Prayer. Saint Paul says: Prayer for all men, for the king, and for all who are in power. One might say: . But Father, this is a bad man, he must go to hell...., However, the answer is:, pray for him to be able to drive well, to love and serve his people, to be humble. The Christian man who does not pray for the leaders is not a good Christian. Can someone ask the question, "But Father, how can I pray for a man who is not a good man?" You must pray for him to repent. You must pray for him. "I am not saying this, but Saint Paul," added the Pope. So let's do the best we can, give ideas and suggestions, but let's pray first. Let us pray for the leaders to govern well; to move our country and the world forward; to make peace and build the common good," concluded Pope Francis on Monday morning. In closing, I can say this: I ask everyone at Christmas, let us say a prayer for the leaders to govern well next year, so that it can finally be good for children, families and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-16-247	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the holidays approach, we have the opportunity to consider what has happened this year. And to do so, I would like to help the pro-government representatives with the messages of Pope Francis, which I will quote from the Vatican summary. The corrupt wealth of the powerful ends with the poor paying the price without receiving what they need and have the right. The only way to overcome the sin of corruption is to serve others, which cleanses the heart,' can be summarised as the homolicity of the Pope's Mass on Monday morning. Corruption is a very sad story, although it is an ancient phenomenon, and it is still one of the most obvious sins," said Pope Francis, who linked his thoughts to the reading of the Mass on Monday morning, which tells the story of Naboth's vineyard. And I would like to note here that if anyone were to find a resemblance to the measures taken by the Orbán government, it must be purely accidental. So King Achab wants to expand his garden a little, so he asks Naboth to sell him his vineyard. But Naboth resists because he doesn't want to part with his legacy for generations. The king resents this rejection, but his wife Jezebel is setting up a trap for Naboth: by the accomplice of false witnesses, he is put before the court, which condemns him and has him stoned to death. And Jezebel hands the grapes over to her husband, who takes possession of them as if nothing had happened. Pope Francis commented on Naboth's story as follows: "All this is repeated today among those who hold economic, political, or spiritual power. We read so many times in the newspapers: this politician and this politician were brought before the court because his wealth grew wonderfully. He was brought to trial, and they brought this and this entrepreneur to justice, because he was miraculously rich, or exploited by his coworkers. They talk a lot about a prelate who has become very rich, and thus left his pastor's duty to care for his belongings. That's how corrupt politicians, businessmen, and church people will be. There's a lot of them everywhere. The truth must be told: corruption is indeed the most obvious sin of those who have authority over others, whether in economic, political or spiritual terms. This is the most obvious sin, for when one has authority, he feels powerful, almost God, the Holy Father pointed out. Otherwise, man becomes corrupt in his own way of safety with prosperity, money, power, pride, and beyond that, he can even kill. But who's gonna pay for all this? - asked the Pope. The one who brings you the bribe? No, it's just a middleman. Corruption is actually paid by the poor man. If we're talking about a corrupt politician and a corrupt businessman, who's paying for this? They pay for medicineless hospitals, careless patients, uneducated children. They are the modern Naboth, who pay for the corruption of the greats, the Pope stated. And who pays for the corruption of the Prelate? Kids who can't cross, who don't go to Bible studies, who aren't cared for. Corruption is paid for by patients who are not visited. Prisoners in prison who don't have a spiritual caregiver. The poor pay for it. Corruption is paid by the poor, financially and spiritually poor. In contrast to all this, the only way out of corruption is the service, emphasized Pope Francis, to overcome temptation, the sin of corruption. Because corruption comes from pride, pride, while service comes from humble charities that come to the aid of others. At the end of his speech, the Holy Father called upon those in the chapel to offer this Mass for them - and how many of them are there! - who are victims of corruption, who pay for the crimes of political, economic and spiritual corruption. May the Lord be close to them. He must have been close to Naboth at the moment of his stoning, just like he was to Deacon Stephen. May the Lord also be with us so that we can continue in the way of our witness. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I propose to the pro-government representatives to digest this message during the holidays. And allow me to wish all the citizens of Hungary a peaceful and happy holiday. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Amen!]] Thank you.
u2014-12-16-249	Thank you very much. He has applied for a speech after the agenda, Honourable Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-250	Mr President, Dear House, The Advent period is a time of quiet looking into ourselves, but the events of the past weeks do not necessarily prove that Hungary's responsible decision-makers would have done so, or that they would all have done so. Without exaggerating, Jobbik's programme refers to the situation of stopping the Hungarian population loss as the most important issue in Hungary, and at all, that the emigration disaster that threatens our country should calm down in order not to exacerbate our already very catastrophic demographic situation. It can be seen that even in order to survive, more than two children per family would be born on average. Hungary can maintain a 1.34 indicator only with cracks and cracks. Based on the reports of the Home Map between 2001 and 2011, Békés County lost 10 percent of its population during the period considered, the value of Nógrád, Borsod and Tolna was around 8 percent, and the depopulation of the capital has now become a well-known problem. It can also be seen that while there are organisations fighting amazing battles for Hungarian mothers to save Hungarian fetus, such as the Alfa Association led by Imre Téglásy, these organisations do not actually receive a penny of budget support. We have mentioned it several times, but I will say it many more times, there has been a budget period in recent years when one of the prostitutes' advocacy organizations has been able to obtain higher revenues from applications and other sources, millions higher than the said Fetus Rescue Alpha Association, which has issued an amazingly tragic certificate on the state of mind of the country. We must say that there are programs that thousands of Hungarian compatriots owe their lives without exaggerating, thus supporting artificial insemination in various forms, which Jobbik called for during the budgetary debate. Unfortunately, we found deaf ears on almost every issue, yet we do not give up on continuing to fight for every Hungarian child born. [[17.20]] To facilitate home creation, a public home-building and rental-building programme could also help to bring many Hungarian children into the world, since many, after the lack of money, indicate in the second place the reason for not having children, there is no place to live, there is no place to have children. Once again, that's what you're adding, and that's what the amazing emigration is all about. In addition, the families concerned, who would expect Hungary to reproduce and continue our continuity at all, face the highest VAT rate of 27 per cent in Europe, face the fact that there has been no VAT reduction for basic foods and, most serious, dramatic, they also face the fact that there has not been a reduction in the VAT on articles needed to raise children, a reduction of at least 5 per cent in recent years. It can be seen that if the government - the current, the previous and the following - put even one such measure under the Christmas tree every year, it would allow thousands of children to be born at the annual level, we could move away from the deadlock. After all, there seems to be a little more people born within the statistical margin of error and a little less people die - which I personally am very, very happy to see - but it also seems that a systemic shift has not been able to be carried through, and tens of thousands of more born children would be needed every year even to keep Hungary's population at a level. A very catastrophic and disappointing statistical data could have been encountered by the more thorough news readers in recent weeks, according to which this year there was a period in Hungary where more refugees arrived in Hungary than the number of Hungarian children were born, and the government of Hungary is also responsible for keeping these refugees here, but it does not ensure that those who can fill the Carpathian Basin can come into the world at all, or receive the basic life chances and opportunities without which productive living cannot be undermined. Therefore, my request is that at least one similar measure should be placed under the tree every year, and those Hungarian children who have not been given the opportunity to do so should be given the support of the Alfa Alliance and other highly public benefit organizations. At the same time, I must also say that I believe that all Members - not only pro-government, but also opposition - have the duty of taking the lead in a personal example of a dog and making it a little easier for those who are without, who face difficulties, to celebrate Christmas in a fair manner. In this spirit, therefore, I wish every single citizen of Hungary a blessed, peaceful Christmas. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2014-12-16-251	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak has applied for a post-meeting speech. Here.
u2014-12-16-252	Dear Parliament, More than a year ago, Jobbik contacted all the group leaders of the Parliament with the request to join his self-limitation in the case of parliamentary alcoholics, after László Kövér unfortunately swept off the better proposal of the House Committee to end this practice, that alcohol drinks can also be consumed in Parliament. I think this is a serious issue, and from time to time this issue emerges in a wide range of society, this question is why it is possible, perhaps as a single workplace in Hungary, that alcohol drinks can also be consumed. It is clear that such drinks can be consumed not only at representative events in the elegant Hunting Room, but also at the cafeteria anytime you can drink beer and wine, it is also part of the official drink menu. In fact, in the neighbouring dome hall, in the room of the Holy Crown, MEPs often drink during plenary sessions, often before voting, so the question arises: if, say, a car cannot be driven under alcohol influence, then why can it be done with the country? Why can decisions be made here in Parliament and run a country under the influence of alcohol? This practice is unacceptable, and I think that, in order to preserve the dignity of the Parliament, or rather to create it, let us now put it this way, it would be necessary to introduce this ban. If this suggestion in the House Committee has unfortunately not found understanding ears, and László Kövér refuses to ban such drinks from the buffet - not even representative events, but from the buffet - I think it would be time for the factions to use self-limitation. Jobbik has already decided at the parliamentary meeting that we do not drink alcohol at work. I would be very pleased if, after more than a year, compared to the letter to the faction leaders, other parties or at least the Members would volunteer to join this self-limit. Now, when society is more alarmed by a drug test, with hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren branded as criminals, it has to be said that, in the case of politicians, this may, of course, be justified in the case of drug testing, especially in the case of politicians returning home from foreign luxury trips. However, it cannot be accepted that, while talking about drug testing, it has become a completely common practice for parliamentary alcohol abuse and should therefore be dealt with in the first place. But if drug prevention is deemed necessary, it would be necessary to raise its annual budget support to HUF 960 million at the beginning of their previous term, since only HUF 355 million will be spent next year, after the proposal for a better amendment to this issue has been voted out. And finally, the question arises: when a schoolboy can find the drug dealers, how can the police still not? They couldn't clean up in two weeks, four years. The police can't even do this schoolwork, they can't do their job that much, and that's what they're supposed to do. And to you, honourable Members, our esteemed two fellow Members, who are still here in this Chamber, this is an opportunity to take a vow, even now, at the end of the session, that if your group does not even respond to such an initiative, you will undertake this kind of self-limitation, even in order to protect the dignity of Parliament, or rather to create it. Thus, at the end of the year, it is necessary to account for the many omissions of Parliament, perhaps even for our daily operation. They should not only be talking about the remuneration of Members, but, above all, about what other privileges there are, let us just think about immunity or the accumulation of political jobs, because it is unacceptable in market conditions to take on a full-time salary without any meaningful work. Therefore, I think it is time to put an end to these privileges, such as parliamentary alcoholics, alcoholism at work. If they show great restraint in such a way, then, but only then can we ask with a calm conscience that God give us a future of destiny, a better future, and wish everyone a merry Christmas. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-16-253	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai applied for a speech. You have the floor. Here.
u2014-12-16-254	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor on a matter of national importance after the agenda. Today, Parliament has made several important decisions. The most important thing for us is that he has declared the Eger castle a national monument. In February 2013 I initiated this decision because it is a symbolic decision, it is a symbolic thing, just as the Eger castle is a symbol of a symbol, a national unity, a Hungarian success, a fighting spirit and a desire to live. Last year was the Gárdonyi Memorial Year. Everyone has read the Egri stars, everyone has seen the film, and the István Dobó Castle Museum in Eger is the country's most visited rural museum. In February 2013, when we initiated this decision, we then discussed this issue with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Prime Minister Péter Boross with the President of the National Memorial and Cedelete Committee. This decision is also important and forward-looking - perhaps I can also say that it was an old debt to the Parliament - because at the moment there is a very serious renovation in the Eger castle, reconstruction and also tourist attraction development, which is accompanied by the complete renewal of the Szép-bástya and the revisiting of the armory. So the Eger Castle became a national memorial place, it actually became a national memorial place today, because I believe that it has been a national memorial place, only the Parliament has not said so. I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who are pro-government and opposition, who have supported this decision today, which is very important to us. Thank you very much for this decision, on behalf of the Eger castle defenders, and I wish as many people as possible to come to the Eger Castle and visit the István Dobó Castle Museum in Eger. Thank you very much for this decision and I wish you all a blessed Christmas. Thank you so much for listening. [[17 .30]]
u2014-12-16-255	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, Member Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-256	Dear Parliament, If we travel across the country, we can see in almost every settlement how much has changed in the last five years. The settlements are cleaner, more orderly, the streets, the parks, the main squares, the churches are renewed. With special respect to the second largest settlement of the Jászség, my own city, Jászapáti, I would like to highlight and thank the government for its support. I do so with the recognition that last week the Jászapáti body of representatives celebrated the 25th anniversary of the declaration of the settlement as a city. It is a great pleasure that the city was able to celebrate this great anniversary in a worthy way, since not only the people but also the settlement could dress in a new dress. With the special support of the government, our church, the main square, the park, the schools and kindergartens have been renovated. We have built a new nursery; in the main square of the city, in the place of the Soviet monument, the statue of King St. Stephen and Happy Gisella reminds us of the unity of the family. For the safety of residents and built values, a new CCTV system takes care of the Yasapátians. In addition to this, the number 31 main road passed through the city has been renewed from more than 10 billion forints, European circular traffic was built in the centre of the settlement, and the road between Jászapáti and Jászszentandrás can also be renewed. The biggest gift of the 25-year anniversary ceremony is that children living in the city tell each other that it is good to live here. For this sentence, we owe thanks to our grandparents, our parents, the people in front of us, but not least, for these improvements, to the government. The country's leadership has proven that all settlements and all people are equally important. In the spirit of these thoughts, I wish you a blessed, peaceful, merry Christmas and the blessing of God. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-16-257	Thank you very much. Mr László Varga, MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech. Here you go.
u2014-12-16-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to speak after a traditional agenda, and it may surprise you in this festive atmosphere, because many people have wished for a merry Christmas. However, I would like to say for the sake of a social group who are also very important, I hope, for many, I am quite sure. During this Christmas period, we all have the opportunity to look at the legal background for them. With a surprising turn of events, I would like to mention Hungarian football lovers, Hungarian fans after the agenda, as the autumn season ended in Hungarian football. I am doing this after the agenda because I believe that sport policy is becoming increasingly important in your policy. Today, too, very quickly, we have adopted a piece of legislation tabled just a day ago, and you have adopted it more precisely, because we have said our concerns about this. There are rules coming and going, and this government is spending tens of billions building football stadiums, various sports facilities. However, the sad situation is that less and less people are interested in this, and less and less people are in the match. While four years ago the average number of viewers was 3812, the sad situation in the second-to-last round was that only 1668 people were interested - less than half of the audience - about Hungarian football, the NB I. Fidesz politicians run football clubs, and these new facilities they build for these teams are often hurtful about emptiness. And where there really is a need for change, for development, let me talk a little bit home, I think about Nutmeg, Miskolc, there hasn't been a scrape-off in years. Thus, ten billion are spent on prestige investments, while a significant part of the fans do not regularly go to football matches on the basis of a measure. A lot of people just wave at me, a lot of people say that this thing is gonna change, but it doesn't look like it. The reason why I thought of the post-meeting comment at this meeting was because the Prime Minister made a surprising statement in the online version of one of the tabloids about an Internet visitor. He said, "We can't assess how much extra viewing will result in the upgrade of the facilities, because the card system has just been introduced, which is a huge mess, and the fans are resisting. I'm not happy about it, but if that's what the MLS thought, I'll adapt to it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The MLSZ refers to the Sports Act, which says that from 1 July 2013 you can visit the matches with name-named tickets - otherwise that is true - and in this context, it is easier to use a mandatory card. I would not talk about how unreasonable the elements of this mandatory card system are, I did so personally when the Parliament decided on the possibility of its introduction. That's what I thought would happen. Well, you can see there's a point between the Prime Minister and the MLS. However, the week when the Parliament adopted the budget, the week when Parliament decided on countless very serious social restrictions, when we have to say before Christmas that very many, millions are hard to live in this country, tens of billions cannot be spent this way. That's my point. You can't spend these ten billion on congo stadiums. I therefore propose to all of us that, after the end of the session, after the holiday period, we rethink the legal background here. It is clear that conflicting statements are being made, and the few who still insist on Hungarian football are becoming impatient. I consider that, all in all, respect for the Hungarian fans. They represented a significantly higher level in Europe than our Hungarian football has often been in recent years. At the time when they indicated that football standards should be the same as those of the fans, they did not expect that unfortunately the audiences would fall so low. This is unacceptable. I suppose that's what you think. I wish all of us that this situation would change during the winter period, with the end of the session. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-16-259	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first Spring Session is expected to take place in the second week of February 2015. When we meet, it's up to the Speaker. In any case, I wish you and everyone who monitors our work within and outside the borders a blessed, peaceful Christmas and a happy New Year. The meeting's closed. Goodbye. [[The meeting ended at 5:38 p.m.]]
