u2014-10-14-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and all those who will follow our daily work through television. The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Ádám Mirkóczki will be notaries of my assistance. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Erzsébet Schmuck from the LMP Group asked for the floor:. Who takes responsibility for the money distribution of the MNB? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-14-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Recently, the LMP called on the President of the Central Bank, György Matolcsy, to clarify the suspicious spending of the MNB, to give the competent committees of Parliament an account of what he will do with the money he has entrusted, and if he refuses to do so, to leave his position. Yesterday, the Economic Committee rejected the inclusion of two separate representatives' proposals in the context of the MNB's spending. One motion, submitted by opposition members of the Committee on Budgets, initiated an SAO inquiry into the purchase of hundreds of billions of real estate and support to the foundations of the Committee on Budgets, which has been running for months, and the other was an LMP initiative? I'm afraid it's past tense now? , with the amendment of the Central Bank Act, he wanted to limit Matolcsy's spending and proposed the termination of the MNB's foundations. As a reminder, the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank prepared the report on the activities of the MNB last year, which was adopted unanimously, i.e. the majority delegated by Fidesz agreed with the report. The report found that the legal basis for György Matolcsy's unprecedented spending cannot be derived from the Central Bank Act. The body to check the legal operation of the MNB found that it was only 140 billion HUF, to date 140 billion HUF There's no legal basis for spreading money. To this end, the governing parties pull their shoulders and vote against Matolcsy's hearing first in the Committee on Budgets, then in the Committee on Culture and finally in the Committee on Economics. You pro-government people have proved that even the laws you make do not apply to you. They've proven the law here, the law there, they can do whatever they want, what their immediate interests require. You believe that HUF 340 billion can be spent in this country without legal authority, if it is done by your man. You think that spending 200 billion forints on teaching György Matolcsy's unorthodox economics is okay even if György Matolcsy hasn't bothered to include his thoughts in writing, even if we don't know who's going to teach him. You can ride offshore if the chairman of the central bank is András Simor, but if the president is György Matolcsy, it doesn't matter which offshore knight has the 14 billion forints that György Matolcsy paid for the luxury palace Eiffel. None of this is of any interest, and it doesn't deserve the National Assembly to look into it. The important thing is not that, but that the nation's money allows them to create 39 board and board positions with greasy tributes to make more of the nation's money into private pockets. You are responsible for György Matolcsy's rampage, you put him in position, and you made sure that Parliament had no chance to ask how this could happen, and you are responsible for the fact that since May, the Hungarian National Bank has not even had a statutory supervisory board. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-14-2	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[András Tállai: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-14-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In democratic states, such as Hungary, the independence of the central bank is a fundamental issue within the meaning of the Fundamental Law. In Hungary, as in other European countries, this is regulated by the Central Bank Act, and this is in line with the European Banking Directives, as the European Central Bank has also approved the regulation of the Hungarian Central Bank Act, essentially the functioning of the Hungarian National Bank, so I conclude that the institutional independence of the Hungarian National Bank is guaranteed by law, and we believe that this is the case. The first question is how unique and how unique the role of the Hungarian National Bank is in Hungary. I assure you that this is not the case, so I would like to give you European examples: for example, the Austrian central bank supports educational foundations and programmes, and even organises them with tens of thousands of participants. Similarly to the MNB, it creates foundations for scientific purposes and provides publications, information and advertising space to increase confidence in the institution by the public. But the Dutch central bank is also the co-founder and main sponsor of a higher education institution, which is a funder and participant in a number of retail and professional training programmes. In the same way, interestingly, the French central bank also excels in its efforts to develop financial culture, and we can also observe a parallel between the MNB and the French central bank between its public thinking and social objective and its activities. So to show that this is a unique thing in Hungary, and since György Matolcsy invented this, this simply does not correspond to reality. As regards the question of who and how to control and supervise the Hungarian National Bank, unlike you, who claims that if the State Audit Office does not control the National Bank of Hungary, this is a mistake. The Central Bank Act clearly states that the National Bank of Hungary can be controlled by two organisations, the State Audit Office? So it's your job and your responsibility, and you're checking it? The other is the National Assembly, to whom he reports every six months. At the request of the President of the National Assembly, the President of the National Bank of Hungary must be informed, in addition, the Parliamentary Representative may address a question to the President of the National Bank of Hungary, as was the case at the parliamentary meeting yesterday, and György Matolcsy, President of the National Bank, answered the parliamentary representative's question. And it is not true that the Committee of Parliament cannot report to the President of the National Bank of Hungary, because the Standing Committee for Economic Affairs and its President may request that the President of the National Bank of Hungary be obliged to report. However, I would like to stress that the independence of the National Bank of Hungary must be guaranteed in all countries, and neither a opposition party nor any other party nor even a government can interfere with its activities. I think that's something to be careful about. I think that the international examples of the practice you have raised prove that it is not unique in Europe, and it is typically the task of the Hungarian National Bank, and its control activities are clearly regulated by the law. You have no reason to worry about the operation of the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much. [[9.10]]
u2014-10-14-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Sándor Burány, spoke before the agenda at the address of a distorted economic policy. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-10-14-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In an hour or two, we will be debating a lot about the year 2013. Allow me to remember this year in a comment before the agenda, because 2013 was not only a unique year according to mathematical rules; this year, indeed, things of such magnitude have happened that this year has proved to be an unparalleled year from an economic policy and social policy point of view. Dear House, If we look at the year we had in 2013, first of all, it must be stated that 2013 was the year of increasing taxes. Although the Orbán government has formed a government with the promise and declared purpose, it has taken up government to reduce taxes, this endeavour has failed, and indeed the opposite has happened. In 2013, we paid more taxes than in 2010, and we actually paid more, more, in total. In 2013, we paid almost HUF 6900 billion more tax than in 2012. We can therefore conclude that 2013 was a year of increasing taxes. If we look at the next characteristic of this year, I regret to say that, despite all the efforts, 2013 was a year of falling earnings. It should be noted that, although a number of measures were taken in 2013 to prevent real income from falling further, if we look at it in a multi-annual comparison, we have to say, unfortunately, that in the longer term this effort has failed. We claim that 2013 was the year of falling earnings, because, overall, real income was nearly 1 percent lower than it was two years earlier in 2011, despite the efforts made in 2013. In fact, this is the year when it turned out that the government's efforts to promote family-friendly politics also failed with regard to family taxation. If you look at the statistical data, you can see that, compared to the two years earlier, the loss was about 0.5 percent for families without children, the same loss for families with one child was 1.6 percent for families with two children and 1.4 percent for families with two children. In other words, advertising family-friendly politics, most families with children suffered greater losses over two years in practice than families with no children, with a greater reduction in real income in these families than in families with no children. If we look at what else characterizes 2013, it can be said that it was a year of brutal austerity. This was the year when the government withdrew the equivalent of HUF 1000 billion from health care, education, pension systems and social care. If we look at the characteristics of 2013 we have to say that 2013 was the year of rising, increasing public debt and weakening forints. I would also like to note that the weakening of the forint enabled the Hungarian National Bank to spend the unprecedented and insane spending that was mentioned in the previous comment. And I would also like to say that the independence of the central bank should not give anyone an exemption for unreasonable management and waste of public money. If we look at what marked the year 2013, then we can conclude that it was the year of a hasty and unpredictable economic policy, because the budget submitted has failed in a month and a half and the Parliament has amended the bill of government or representatives seven more times on the budget. Probably only because the Parliament took a summer break, so it couldn't change the budget every month. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. 2013 was the year of the state pyramid game, and the point is, the lower someone is, the more the state takes from them, in order to [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That the higher you are, the better you're gonna be. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause from the benches of MSZP and LMP.]]
u2014-10-14-6	On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It was an interesting speech, because in less than half an hour, Parliament will really start to negotiate the closing date of the 2013 Budget Act for several hours, so it is possible to express the opinion. This is what Mr President has chosen to say in his speech before the agenda. Contrary to you, we do not see it that way, as you say, because we see that 2013 was a year of stability in terms of budgetary balance, since Hungary was released from the excessive deficit procedure after nine years in June 2013. Your speech is very interesting, because you are not faced with your own political activities, either, that while you have been a member of the governing party for eight years, you have not once been able to meet the expectations of the European Union, you have failed to meet it, and you have not been able to bring the budget deficit below 3 percent of GDP. But I think that your specific findings do not hold up either, because, for example, what is wrong with the fact that more taxes have been paid into the budget, while, by the way, personal income tax has become one-key, 16 percent, and has decreased significantly. This is not because of what you are saying, Mr President, but because more and more people in Hungary are paying taxes and paying taxes on an increasing income, which is why more people are included in the budget, and otherwise there is an increase in demand and hence an increase in consumption taxes in the budget. So your finding that more taxes are correct is just an explanation, the background of things is too oppositional. It is also not true that we can talk about falling actions in 2013. It is very interesting that you have acknowledged in your speech that the government has taken a number of measures to increase the actions. The report states that gross average earnings increased by 3.4 percent in 2013 and that net earnings have increased significantly through your idea of super-grossing. This was 4.9 percent in 2013. Overall, real wages increased by 3.2 percent in 2013. I do not know how it is possible for you to make it out that it was the year of the fall-off actions, by the way 2013.But the Member is also wrong about the fact that we are talking about increasing public debt. Just at the end of 2013, the government debt was below 80% of GDP. Well, we can talk about growth in those eight years while you've been steering! Government debt increased by more than 30 percent compared to GDP and the debt ratio increased by HUF 12 000 billion. The Fidesz government has stopped growth, and it is true that we can talk about a reduction in government debt to a smaller extent, but still a reduction in government debt to GDP. I think that you see the country's budgetary and economic results in 2013 through distorted glasses or distorted thinking. [[9.20]] But even if you were right that there is an enormous tax increase in this country, that incomes are falling here, and public debt is skyrocketing, the government would certainly not be able to produce such economic results that even the IMF recognises that Hungary is on the right track. But you know what, the best valuer was almost 6 April after 2013, where the Fidesz-KDNP government and Parliament were again given two-thirds majority by voters. Think about that, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó applied for a speech from the KDNP Group entitled "Hungary's Sports Great Power" before the agenda. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Professor Wolfgang Berringer says that sports is the key to the way societies operate. So the key to sport opens the doors of societies, and many things become visible through sport. What did we see in the country in 2010? We have seen that only 5 percent of the adult population played sports and there are a lot of obese, overweight people. We have seen that in the period of governing the socialists, in terms of the number of gradually decreasing physical education classes, our children have in many cases become obese and overweight, and children have played sports only during physical education, at least 75 percent of them have done so. This only happened two or three times a week. This recognition, which, through sport, came to our attention from a sports-friendly government, the Orbán government, clearly triggered the creative will to do what was necessary to change, to remedy the problems. After the work of the past four years, we Christian democrats see that a number of decisions have been made that have led to an increase in the willingness of the adult population to play sports from 5 percent to 15 percent, to a triple increase, and to the most dynamic development of the Member States of the European Union. We've introduced everyday physical education. At the moment, thanks to this government decision, about 890 thousand children play sports at least every day of their physical education. The government's goal is to ensure that all Hungarian children play sports. We Hungarians are indeed a great power in sport, because in the history of modern Olympics, we stand in the eighth place in the line of nations with 168 gold medals, 148 silver medals and 170 bronze medals, and we are second in number of souls. Just looking at the performances of Hungarian athletes for the past two and a half months, I would like to inform Parliament that it has enriched the country's treasurer with 26 gold medals, 21 silver medals and 28 bronze medals, i.e. a total of 75 medals. That's a huge athletic achievement. In the last two and a half months Hungarian athletes have achieved this result at World Championships and European Championsships. That's a huge achievement. Congratulations on behalf of KDNP for Hungarian athletes. In addition, the government has made a number of decisions in recent months in order to develop, build and ensure conditions for sport by the government. We welcome this from KDNP. There are HUF 6 billion in this year's budget for school and gym building, 23 school facilities and 25 gymnasiums will be built as a result. In Nyíregyháza the government builds a sports hall in Bujtos, in Mosonmagyaróvár a multifunctional sports hall, in Újbuda to the great pleasure of the people of NewBuda building a sports citadel, the Tüskekcsarnok is expanded with two swimming pools, and the children of NewBuda can learn to swim, because the, all children learn to swim, we have also launched a program; it is a huge achievement. The Győr Arena, swimming pool is built, Pécs basketball academy is supported by the government, Csepelen rowing center and kayak-kenu center, which may also be able to host a new Olympics. In Sopron, Körmenden, the government is planning to expand the sports hall, and the government is building an athletic center in Miskolc and Szolnok. These are huge-scale changes, which support the entire spectrum of sport, intelligent sports development concepts. Allow me one more thought at the end, and this is about last weekend. The Spar Marathon race broke the record for the denominators, with 24 450 runners participating in the streets of Budapest. It's been a great experience. We took part in it ourselves. Under the leadership of Zoltán Balog, the Ministry of Human Resources is now traditionally represented at this leisure port event. I ran 11 kilometers in a changer run myself, Minister ran, and even a number of fellow State Secretarys. I think it is very, very important that money and subsidies for recreational sports have also increased over the past period. We ran with visual and disabled runners. So sport is an important tool for developing a strategic sector, a well-functioning society. We are pleased that the government is also using serious subsidies for sport. We want to build a healthy nation with a healthy spirit through sport. And I think that if we put the sport nation as a goal, I feel that this is an objective that everyone can support, because sport has an important value, and this is fair play, fair sport, fair play and sport? As the professor of history quoted earlier was correct? indeed, we can improve the functioning of society. This is the government's goal and KDNP fully supports the government in this regard. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to answer. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. What about Almageddon? Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, with the title of an ever more serious crisis, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There is only uncertainty about the crisis in the apple market. There are conflicting news, rumors, information, misinformation, which will not only help market players to find their way forward, but also make it significantly difficult. It is certain that no concrete, meaningful, practical action has been taken. First of all, a subsidy of 4.9 billion and then a grant of 3.2 billion was announced, and the latter had already been excluded from concentrated storage aid and production aid. On the other hand, this situation could not be unexpected, since professional organisations have indicated in good time that, on an EU average, surplus production is expected to be at least 20 percent, but in the domestic market at a much higher rate than in previous years. Then a brilliant idea was born that you thought was brilliant, but in reality it was inexecutable, unenforceable, which you announced at the Nyíregyházi Agrárkamara on 30 September, among others, István Jakab with a big deer-flat, that Magyar Kereskedőház Zrt. for sale, 20 forints/kilograms, 35 forints/kilograms, they want to buy the dietary apple. They didn't say that it was a net or gross amount, nor did they say that they would buy apples for this much, whether or not they were delivered. However, even if this were to be done and implemented, it would still not cover the cost, since it is possible to produce a kilo for at least 25 forints, and it is possible to produce good quality eating apples for at least 40 or 50 forints. So it's still not enough to survive. And now I'm going to tell you why it's impossible and why it's unenforceable. On the one hand, it is almost certain that a measure contrary to EU competition law is a measure where a State-owned operator acquires large quantities at a fixed price. I would like to tell you that the Economic Competition Authority has launched investigations into the melon price cartel for much less. We are very critical and sceptical towards the EU, but as long as we are members of the European Union, we must take note of whether we like it or not, that certain rules, such as competition rules, must still be respected. So this idea of yours is also impossible and unthinkable from the point of view of EU competition law. On the other hand, if the Trading House Zrt. Buying above the market price, it is likely that there will be serious losses. Where is the billions of forints in the budget that the state will be forced to swallow in this case? Then, from Trader House Zrt., the other market participants will probably not buy, since they will not buy a product of uncertain origin, of quality. This Secretary of State may smile, but the smile will freeze on their faces, because the farmers may finally be destined for demonstrations, demonstrations, half-way or full-track road closures in Szatmár and several parts of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, because at least 40-50 percent of the apple-growing areas are located in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and the county that is already in a serious situation is most affected by this state. On the other hand, in their blessed activities, they failed to claim the agricultural-environmental support of 13 thousand farmers for the next year, amounting to HUF 72 billion, and they failed to claim the part of the EU's 125 million withdrawal or non-harvesting aid in Hungary, which, by the way, you declared a few weeks ago that the unscrupulous and dishonest Polish farmers were responsible for this. [[9.30]] So even when they can't find those responsible in domestic political or professional circles, they can't admit that you're to blame. Then they're going to blame it on the Poles, making completely false statements. On the other hand, it is very interesting that, when you were in the opposition, the price of money below HUF 30 was considered treason by the then and present leaders of Magos to be treason and spit in the face of Hungarian farmers. I don't know what they're calling it. And I wouldn't help farmers, let alone help increase or increase their ability to assert their interests, with various threats, whether by putting tax authorities or other means of administration on the table, blocking, curbing, paralyzing the self-organizing capacity of farmers. They're trying to stop these farmers from going to the streets. So when you were in opposition, you fired, heated the farmers, and now you're trying to paralyze them. But if all is true, perhaps in the near days around Mátészalka and Chenger the still water will finally move, and farmers will dare to stand up for themselves in this form despite any threats. These sinful omissions are your responsibility. It is high time Minister Fazekas resigned, it is high time the leaders of Magos resigned, and it is high time the Fidesz leaders of the Chamber of Agriculture left! Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-14-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr István Nagy, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-14-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to begin by rejecting the sentences that say that the farmers will finally protest, and the farmers will finally protest. [[István Apáti: Let's hope so!]] As if the most important goal was to show the farmers. I believe you want to make political capital out of this. [[István Apáti: Who is forging?]] However, let us look at how the apple situation in Hungary started today. I have to say that this is not a bad problem, but this is a very good problem. It's a good problem that there's plenty and there's no shortage. Because if there's plenty, it's always a lot easier to handle than it would have been if it hadn't been. How does it come together that there is an abundance at present, and from what source? There are several components, since there are more crops not only in Hungary, but also in the EU, because 12 million tonnes can be expected due to favorable weather conditions, and Hungary has some 40 percent more produced this year, so 780-800 thousand tons of apples are expected. The truth is that this was accompanied by another very serious situation, namely the Russian embargo, which has two consequences. It has a direct and has an indirect effect on this. The direct effect is that obviously the amount of exports that could have gone to the Russian market will now remain here in Hungary. The indirect effect is that from other countries, the consequences of the embargo, the apple may appear in Hungary. He mentioned the Polish farmers. Let me say that I have personally had the opportunity to negotiate with the Polish Minister for Agriculture, who has assured me that they can solve the Polish apple issue in their own jurisdiction, since they solve the Polish apple issue by cider production, and they do not actually burden the European market, other countries. What about Hungary? He mentioned that Hungary missed the EU 125 million case. Dear Member, I would like to tell you that this is not the case at all, since the 125 million quota has been over-claimed. The European Union realized that it was advertised according to the wrong methodology, which the Polish farmers naturally struck, and not only the volume of exports but also their entire apple production was declared. In Hungary, 226 producers submitted this request when the European Union closed this framework. With a new call and a new methodology, the European Union has announced another apple quota, this time in the order of EUR 165 million. This means for Hungarian producers that there is a demand for 725 tonnes of apples and pears, 570 tonnes of plums and table grapes and 3 thousand tons of additional crops that we can submit. Therefore, Hungary may apply for aid for a total of 4295 tonnes of product, i.e. a quantity well above the actual Russian exports, for which it is not necessary to compete with other Member States. What can the country do when there are many of something? We draw attention to the need to consume this surplus. This is why the agricultural portfolio launched a marketing campaign, which started with a slogan "Smiling Apple" that hides domestic sunlight. But I would like to present a very simple solution. After all, the Hungarian apple consumption was 30 kilos per person per year. Today, 15 kilograms. This means that if every person ate four apples instead of two apples a week, then there would be no apple question, and there would be no need to talk about it now. It should be pointed out that in the apple there are very good opportunities that need to be taken advantage of. At the 24 locations of seven chain stores, 52 apple tastings were announced. The Ministry of Agriculture bought an apple worth two million forints, which was distributed through the eco-menic charity service. We organised apple markets on purpose, and the National Chamber of Agriculture, together with the municipalities, announced apple sales and direct apple sales. In this situation, because we have consulted apple producers and interbranch organisations many times, the National Trading House Ltd. has come. The opportunity the government welcomed. Last Saturday he started the acquisition; we very much hope that he will succeed on the basis of market considerations. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-14-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Fidesz Group, MEP László Kucsák applied for a speech before the agenda:. What measures does the government take to protect young people? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-15	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, All the news that basically told the parents that their children were not safe in freshman camp at higher education has given rise to a great deal of emotion. They may even become victims of crime and may also be affected spiritually, emotionally, not only by their interests but also by their specific value-destroying and damaging. Parents feel even more justified because, as one case shows, their child may become a victim by perhaps not knowing about it much later or never. Many questions are raised in a parent who is concerned about his or her child, either in higher education or in any way, in a young person who has become a victim. The first thing that arises in the parent is that if his child has applied to the higher education institution, everything that happens on behalf of the institution in relation to student law is primarily the responsibility of the management of higher education institutions, not the responsibility of student self-governments. It is the responsibility of the institution's management who organizes the camp, and if it is the student council, what happens in stork camps. Management is responsible for controlling the activity there, protecting the physical and mental health and dignity of young people. Second, the responsibility of those who are the actual organizers of the camp is raised. Cases have a legal dimension, criminal implications, and important ethical issues. One of the questions that arises is where and what records why students are responsible for such a camp. Does anything record it, and if you're not properly, whose responsibility is it? Should public procurement be carried out, and who will conduct it? Do you have to keep accounts of revenue, expenses, and who does it, who controls it? Does anything state what kind of conduct the HÖK should follow in connection with the conduct of such a camp, and in which case what action obligations do the organisers have? If not so far, it has become necessary, in connection with events that have come to light, to record in the legislation and internal rules of higher education the cases where the student has become unfit for his intended profession. [[9.40]] As a educator, young people should not be dealt with as students who seriously violate the rights, dignity, or accomplice in hiding them. A lawyer is also unfit and uncredited by a person who transcends the law and ignores the rights of others. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that this summer the Office for Government Control conducted investigations in four higher education institutions in connection with their management, and that the Commissioner for Educational Rights is also investigating the issue of stork camps in recent years. Important questions therefore await a reassuring answer. What measures has the Government taken or intends to take to clarify the responsibility for what has happened? What steps would you like to take to ensure that such cases do not occur in the future? Do they consider the legislation, the requirements within the institutions, the role of student self-governments in higher education to be appropriate in relation to the issues raised? And if not, what measures would you like to take? Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-14-16	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd like to pick up where the congressman left off. So there is a comprehensive investigation in progress here, and the Commissioner for Education, the Education Ombudsman, continues to do so. He sought out all university leaders for two purposes: on the one hand, the mistakes that could have led to such terrible crimes, inhumane acts, and, on the other hand, the good practices in other universities where we managed to keep stork camps under civilized conditions, at the right level and in safety. If we are talking about creating high-quality higher education in Hungary, then it is unthinkable that in the three days prior to the starting date of high-quality higher education, students will not meet their university students, future teachers, seniors, then not? so to speak? participate in high-quality programmes for quality higher education, but are they forced to do things or are they involved in things that, at their own discretion, would be avoided from far away by their own moral senses, but here they are making them sing songs, so communal? Do I quote you? They play games with them, which they would not do on their own good taste, and they are far, far beyond the limits of common good taste. So if you want to build quality higher education, is it also the threshold for entry? I'm not talking about admissions, I'm talking about stork camp, is that the first step they take in college? This can only be a qualitative step. In addition, if you look at the impact of this on the whole character, obviously this is not a three-day event that will happen once, it will be closed, but obviously what happened there will also affect the years to come. Who, who had been in stork camp at his own time, obviously remembers that he met the people he had mixed up with there, he may have been involved with them for many years, so it has a very big impact beyond the university years. In order to deter everyone from committing such and similar crimes within stork camp and outside stork camp, this is why we have created Europe's strictest criminal code, which protects several groups: in addition to children and older people, it is women who receive increased protection. In many cases, offences committed to their harm are classified cases, which is why they are far more severely punishable than in other groups, taking full advantage of the fact that children, minors, women and the elderly are particularly exposed to many crimes. We can also see that these stork camps are often very underorganized, even directly sharpened for purposes beyond the limit of admissibility. Obviously, many of us have seen, heard, read various things about the initiation rituals of other countries, such as English Colleges; they may be to test human performance, but they are not to violate human dignity; in hundreds of years there have been more generally accepted initiation ceremonies, these are not those that have occurred in these cases, which are quite simply crimes. Unorganization, the fact that there is no one responsible for a program, creates a field that can be exploited by those arriving with similar sanda intentions, not to mention that if programs are directly moody that obviously resolve inhibitions, then similar unscrupulous people can feel more at home in such an environment. That is why it is important that we remedy this situation by either amending the law or possibly amending some legislation, and that any young or older 18 - year - old who enters these stork camps can feel safe, and that parents let their children go with a sense of security. If the programmes are not responsible, it is not clear that the university, as an institution, has the responsibility of either the student self-government or the person concerned; these are often washed-up, unclear categories. If you do not have exactly who is responsible, then obviously everyone will allow these events to get out of hand much better, as you do not feel that either as a university leader, rector, head of student self-government, or as a concrete organizer of the event, you will have to account for your activities or omissions later, and you can be held accountable for this. This is why it seems that the institutions, the student authorities, sometimes take responsibility for themselves, sometimes pass on each other, so that they cease or suspend the function of student authorities or certain student authorities as officials, and that is why universities are looking for exclusion from the university as a possibility of a very strict sanction. The round table of higher education on 9 September? What happened in our ministry? We have revived the Student Responsibility Sub-Committee because, in addition to rights, there is a need to include obligations and responsibilities in the legislation. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We hope that the Ombudsman's inquiry and the round table on higher education, this subcommittee, will help to develop these amendments. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. In the debate on the closing accounts and the related State Court of Auditors report, I would like to present the keynote speech of the KDNP myself. As is known, if the Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision only if the Parliament has agreed to do so before. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will allow me to continue to lead the meeting when negotiating and deciding on the proposal. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013 will now follow. a general debate on the implementation of the Act and the related report on the 2013 discharge of accounts, on the monitoring of the implementation of Hungary's 2013 budget until closure. The bill is T/1143. and the State Audit Office report is T/1143/1. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Budgets to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 40-minute time frame, who tells the expo from this platform. I'll wait for the Secretary of State to come to the stand. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-14-19	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, Members of Parliament. In 2013, the government continued its structural reforms announced at the beginning of the government cycle, with the main objectives of reducing high public debt, improving the country's competitiveness, increasing labour market activity and increasing the country's growth potential. The results of government's economic policy and disciplined fiscal management are recognised by international organisations and investors. This is shown by the fact that in the summer of 2013 the Council of the European Union terminated the ongoing excessive deficit procedure since the accession of our country to the EU. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of September, following the submission of the 2013 closing bill, the Central Statistical Office together with the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of National Economy prepared for the first time the autumn EDP report on the balance and debt of the new ESA 2010 government sector. [[9.50]] This includes macroeconomic and general government data compiled on the basis of new standards, since the methodology for compiling national accounts, the former ESA 1995, has changed since September 2014? in a public sense, ESA. 95? The ESA has been replaced by a clearing system for 2010. The new methodology follows changes in the economic environment, taking into account new research results and users' needs. I would like to present the new methodology data in my Expos. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. In 2013 positive economic trends, strengthening and strengthening economic growth were observed both in Europe and in Hungary. At the same time, the extent and structure of the expansion in some regions differed. In particular, Hungary's most important external trade partner and export market, Germany, achieved a low economic expansion last year due to weak external trade balance and falling investment. In view of this, it is a particularly positive result that Hungarian foreign trade has shown dynamic growth and export performance has increased significantly, to which the rise in the production of vehicle production capacities built in previous years has contributed greatly. Hungary's gross domestic product increased by 1.5 percent in 2013. A number of factors have played a role in the turn of growth: the rise in investment, the dynamic performance of agriculture, the recovery of external economic activity and the government's actions have contributed to the recovery of the economy. It is evidence of the long-term sustainability of economic growth that the balance of payments shows a massive surplus and the budget deficit remains below 3 per cent. The structure of growth has become more balanced; while net exports have been the main driving force in previous years, domestic demand has already contributed positively to the performance of the economy in 2013. Investments increased by 5.2 percent and household consumption by 0.2 percent. The recovery of consumption has been supported by several factors: increasing real incomes and improving consumer confidence through record increases in costs reductions and employment. Investment growth has been supported by both government and private development, thanks, inter alia, to EU funds, a declining return environment, the growth credit programme and the strong activity of the corporate sector. The substantial increase in investment is positive, since the capacity of the recovering producer and service provider not only promotes economic growth in the short but also in the long term. Growth is balanced also in terms of the production side of GDP, as both the production and service sectors contributed to the expansion in 2013. The 15.1 percent increase in agricultural production is largely explained by the low base due to drought weather in 2012. Due to the recovery of external demand and vehicle production capacities, the performance of the manufacturing industry has gradually accelerated. The construction sector has also grown dynamically, with the last growth in the sector growing faster in 2005. With regard to labour market developments, an increase in employment started in the summer of 2010. Employment at national level increased by around 60,000 people compared to 2012, while employment rates reaching 51,6 percent have been the most favourable in the last 15 years. There is also a positive picture in international comparison, the number of people employed in Hungary alone increased above the level of 2008 and the highest increase in the number of people active in Hungary as well. Employment has also been increased by positive developments in the competitive sector. The Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs supported employers in the employment of the most disadvantaged groups and the amendments to the Labour Code helped to move towards flexible forms of employment. Public employment programmes, which continued to boost in 2013, have also played an important role in the growth of employment, providing opportunities for those without jobs to return to the labour market. Gross average earnings increased by 3.4 percent in the whole national economy. In 2013, the introduction of the semi-superbrutto was the first to achieve purely the single-key personal income tax system, which resulted in an increase in net wage. In view of this, net earnings rose by 4.9 percent at national level, while real wages increased by 3.2 percent, thanks to a moderate rise in consumer prices. In 2013, the external balance was also positive. The current account reached a 4.1 per cent surplus in proportion to GDP. In particular, the surplus of exports from new automotive capacities in the trade balance resulted in a significant increase. In the case of income, the current account has been improved by declining interest payments to the rest of the world, as well as by the accelerated use of EU transfers for unrequited transfers. In terms of capital balance, the rise in support for economic and infrastructure development from the European Union explains the improvement. As a result of these processes, the country's net external financing capacity increased to a record high level of 7.8 percent of GDP. In 2013, prices also remained moderate; they recorded a low, 1.7 percent average price increase for decades in Hungary, which is due to several factors. On the one hand, the reduction in global oil and food prices and the low foreign inflation environment have slowed down price dynamics and, on the other hand, the introduction of measures to reduce costs in several stages has greatly contributed to the development of a low inflation environment. Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and facts, it can be concluded that the fundamentals of the Hungarian economy were strengthened and that growth was on a sustainable path in 2013. This was a good basis for further strengthening economic performance for 2014. Dear Parliament, The 2013 budget year was characterised by two processes. On the one hand, Hungary was still subject to an excessive deficit procedure in the first half of the year. In order to conclude the procedure, the government decided in spring on a measure to improve the general government balance. In this context, it adopted provisions aimed primarily at reducing the State's operating expenditure and not at affecting aid to families and private individuals. The second half of the year? After the over-deficit procedure has been completed? the measures, the recovery of the economy, savings and revenue for each item of expenditure have made it clear that the deficit target set can be met safely. The more favourable budgetary processes and the significant amount of risk reserve have allowed the partial lifting of expenditure-side measures. This could provide the necessary additional resources in a number of areas, such as the launch of the pedagogical career model from September, the financing of additional expenditure on flood protection and restoration, the creation of a self-force fund for the involvement of EU funds, the extra support for higher education, the extension of public employment and the reduction of hospital debt. [[10.00]] Some of the additional expenditure was covered by a 20% reduction in the available National Defence Fund, but the remaining part was not spent by the government. This is also due to the fact that the cash flow deficit of the central government has been reduced by HUF 200 billion compared to the modified statutory allocation. The general government deficit in 2013 amounted to HUF 819.9 billion, which is 2.7 percent of GDP. The balance of the local government subsystem closed with a significant surplus of HUF 112.9 billion instead of a deficit of HUF 15 billion in the 2013 Budget Act. This improvement is due, on the one hand, to disciplined farming, to cuts in operating expenditure and, on the other, to strict government control over borrowings. At the same time, the economic situation of the municipalities was significantly improved by the government's start in 2012 and the final closure of the government's debt consolidation in 2014. The 2013 deficit of the so-called government sector, according to the EU methodology, was achieved by 2.4 percent of GDP. The bill for closing accounts was presented with a deficit of 2.2 percent according to the old method. The target, calculated on the basis of the ESA. 95 methodology, which was 2.7 per cent, was caused by higher revenues from the central subsystem on the one hand and the significant budget surplus of the local self-government subsystem on the other. The fact that the one-off large cash-flow expenditure related to the cooperative integration did not increase the deficit according to the EU statistical methodology has also played a role in the underachievement of the deficit. Dear House, Hungary continues to draw significant amounts from the European Union budget, which in 2013 was close to HUF 1400 billion, thus exceeding the 2012 level by some HUF 300 billion. EU funds and related national contributions have continued to make a significant contribution to the success of structural reforms in the fields of health, education, employment policy, but also to the achievement of economic development and territorial and rural development objectives. In 2013, EU funds paid amounted to more than 5 per cent of GDP. The national strategic reference framework and payments for rural development in 2013 have accelerated thanks to effective government measures. At the same time, the successful implementation and completion of projects by deadline should continue to be a priority from both the institutional and the beneficiaries' side. In 2013, EU funds amounted to HUF 1584 billion were used under the various grants, including non-budget agricultural subsidies, and all EU funds were used for HUF 1967 billion. Our payment obligation to the EU budget amounted to HUF 272 billion, which is less than 14 percent of the funds used. Based on this, the net position of Hungary remains safe to say that the resources from the EU budget are well above the amount of our contribution. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me also talk about the management of the main parts of public finances. Each year, the management of central budgetary bodies is an independent topic in the debate on the bill. Briefly about their location. The programmes, tasks and grants presented on certain headings managed by central budgetary bodies and chapters were completed for HUF 6707.2 billion in 2013, which amounts to HUF 1640 billion, some 32.4 percent more than the 2012 performance. The majority of the growth was due to the expenditure of the institutions received from the municipalities. At the same time, the payment in relation to the current year-end expenditure allocation was 88,7 per cent. For full-time and part-time employees, we spent HUF 1266.1 billion on regular personal benefits and 1.8 percent on initial appropriations. Dear Parliament, As of 1 January 2013, the scope of the tasks performed by the municipalities and the way in which the funding was financed changed significantly. As is known, the district offices established at that time have taken over a number of notary tasks, local competences have narrowed considerably. The professional tasks of the schools were also carried out by the State. These institutions have been maintained by Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre and part of the social and child protection institutions have been received by the state. All of this fundamentally changed the system of municipal tasks, making it more pronounced that at this level it is essential to provide local public affairs, basic services close to the population, and that municipal resources should be allocated to these tasks. The transfer of resources necessary for the performance of the tasks concerned to the new maintainer is a natural consequence of these restructurings. This concerned not only the former normative subsidies, but also the system of revenues transferred to municipalities. The modified system of tasks was also linked to the restructuring of municipal funding. The former normative aid scheme has been replaced by new task-based funding, which takes more account of the level of spending of local public services and provides resources adapted to them. At the same time, it should be stressed that the transition to new financing took place at the same time as the introduction of significant reserves, which allowed the structural and specific problems encountered during the year to be dealt with quickly and effectively. Taking into account the above changes, the municipal revenue and expenditure system has been significantly modified. In 2013, local authorities had HUF 2335.4 billion in cash flow and HUF 2448.3 billion in cash flow revenues. The budgetary balance of this sub-scheme of public finances has improved further compared to 2012. In addition to the partial consolidation of the debt of the municipalities over 5 thousand, the repayment aid granted in the context of the consolidation of the municipalities below 5 thousand in 2013. While the majority of the 2012 budget balance of HUF 90.3 billion was due to the consolidation aid of HUF 73.7 billion, the same benefit was HUF 36.3 billion out of HUF 112.9 billion, which was also positive in 2013. Apart from this, a positive HUF 76,6 billion was created in 2013 in the municipal sub-scheme, which is a clear proof of the economical management of the local government. Local government debt continued to decline in 2013, reaching HUF 459.6 billion, which is about 43.1 percent of the previous year. In conclusion, the local government system has undergone a major transformation that has resulted in a considerable burden for municipalities, in addition to remedying the low efficiency that they have experienced in the past. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention the implementation of the 2013 budget of the two financial funds for social security. The Pension Insurance Fund closed 2013 with a revenue surplus of HUF 1.3 billion. The distribution of the social contribution tax, which is a major part of the revenue, was modified between the two financial funds of social security compared to the previous year, with the share of the Pension Insurance Fund being increased from 88,9 per cent to 100 per cent at that time. The rate of individual pension contributions remained unchanged at 10 per cent, but the upper limit of the contribution was abolished, so the payment obligation already applied to the entire contribution fund. The total revenue of the Fund was HUF 3016 billion, which exceeded the estimated value by HUF 168.7 billion. In particular, the development of the revenue surplus is explained by the positive development of the social contribution tax and, to a lesser extent, other contributions and contributions, as well as the contribution of the insured. The fundamental reason for the surplus of the social contribution tax, which is a major part of the revenue, is that the new tax types introduced in 2013, the specific tax on small taxpayers and the small company tax were chosen by significantly fewer people than planned. Wage measures in the public sector during the year have also contributed to a significant increase in revenues compared to the base year value. However, the actual use of budget support was not necessary as the Fund had a significant revenue surplus on the last working day of the year and was therefore transferred back to the central budget on the basis of the statutory mandate. The total expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund amounted to HUF 3014.7 billion. Most of the expenditure on pensions was estimated at HUF 2830.5 billion, which was only exceeded by HUF 8 billion. The pension increase was of the same size as the planned consumer price increase of 5.2 per cent, which affected nearly 2.2 million people. Given that the annual increase in the price index for the consumption of pensioners was 1.5 per cent, in 2013 the real value of pensions increased significantly by 3.6 per cent, if the impact of equity increases is taken into account, by 3.7 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen. The budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2013 was planned with a balance of revenue and expenditure. The performance was minimally different, the deficit was only HUF 0.5 billion. The total revenue of the Health Insurance Fund in 2013 was reached at HUF 1848.1 billion, which exceeded the planned amount by HUF 43.8 billion. Within the revenues, a contribution of HUF 768 billion was made. The insurance health insurance contribution from this group, of which nearly HUF 583 billion has been paid, as well as the health contribution, of which a significant HUF 25.9 billion has been generated in excess of the appropriations. The other group of revenues were budget contributions, amounting to HUF 966.1 billion. The combined weight of the third group revenue is 6 percent of the total revenue. In particular, most of the revenue came from the payments made by pharmaceutical manufacturers and distributors, amounting to nearly HUF 59 billion. The total expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund in 2013 was HUF 1848.6 billion, which exceeded the planned amount by HUF 44.3 billion. About 30 percent of the expenses, HUF 553 billion were used to pay cash benefits, more than 68 percent and HUF 1271.7 billion were used to finance benefits in kind. In terms of benefits in kind, it should be pointed out that healing-preventive care has increased by HUF 27.4 billion compared to planned. As a result of the government's action, the appropriation made it possible to implement the second phase of health pay planning in the amount of HUF 19.4 billion and to develop the financing of general medical, protective and dental care of HUF 6.1 billion. In addition, as in previous years, the government took action in 2013 to reduce the outstanding debt of suppliers of healthcare institutions by allocating consolidation aid of HUF 33.1 billion. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, I would like to say a few words about the findings of the State Audit Office on the accounts. The SAO has done extensive, careful work in monitoring the bill on the implementation of the 2013 budget, which I would also like to thank. The Court drew attention to positive changes in the legality, number and on-the-spot checks of the discharge document and to some minor shortcomings. The Court's audit assessed the data of the discharge bill as duly supported by the explanatory memorandum. The reliability of the budget bill as a whole was not affected by the amount of errors found in the accounts and accounts. The Court also noted that budget developments had improved in the year under consideration, that the management of the budgetary institutions had become more planned and that the accounts and the reliability of the accounts had improved. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. In the light of all these positive findings, I would like to ask you to discuss and adopt the draft discharge legislation on the agenda. Thank you for Parliament's great attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-20	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, With special respect, I welcome Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, and ask you to come to the stand to hold his supplementary speech on the State Audit Office report within a 40-minute time frame. I give you the floor, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In accordance with the legal obligation of the State Court of Auditors, the draft law implementing Hungary's central budget for 2013, our report was published in accordance with the legal requirements on 29 August. We have assessed its reliability and whether the financial statements and accounts underlying the bill do not contain any material error affecting reliability. We also checked whether the implementation of the Finance Act was legal and regular and that the audited organisations were properly managed with public funds. The objectives of the audit were to monitor the implementation of the objectives and tasks set out in the government programmes setting the management framework for 2013, which we published at the same time as our report, our analysis of the macroeconomic context of the 2013 budgetary processes, and we hope that this will contribute to the debate on the evaluation of economic processes, whether now or in the context of the planning of the 2015 budget. This study was carried out in parallel with the discharge report and analyses and evaluates the processes of the general government as a whole in 2013 in the context of the macroeconomic environment and in terms of its aspects, thus complementing the approach of the financial compliance report of the discharge report. [[10.20]] The purpose of our audit was also to assess whether the preparation for the establishment of a profit-based public finance and accounting system for transparency, regularity in cash matters was carried out at the chapters and institutions and whether the tasks related to the change of public finances in 2014 were carried out. This is a historic change, which is why we considered it important for the ladies and gentlemen representing to know the experience of accounting restructuring as we go along. The State Audit Office audited 97.3% of the total revenue of the 2013 central budget and 90,6 percent of its total expenditure. In absolute terms, the coverage increased by HUF 1000 billion in revenues and by HUF 1076.4 billion in expenditure, so the coverage of our control is reassuring and high reliability. We have fully checked the central management appropriations, the administrative addresses of the ministries and the overall 131 reports on chapter management appropriations, the separate state funds and the social security funds. Our audit also covered the cash flow processes of 164 institutions, the use of EU and related budget support. Dear Parliament, During our audit, we found that the implementation of the 2013 central budget was in line with the legal requirements, that the discharge bill was well-founded and that the data contained in the bill were reliable. Overall, the budgetary processes for 2013 were more favourable than the revised appropriations. Based on the aggregated figures for the implementation of the central budget, it can be concluded that the budget has been properly managed by unforeseen events. The system of increased reserves provided security and a secure anchor for dealing with the changes in the 13th year. The management of budgetary institutions has become more planned and the reliability of individual institutional accounts and chapter accounts has been further improved; this has been contributed to the development of internal control systems and their functioning. In recent years, with the focus on integrity issues, the State Audit Office has also supported the more reliable functioning of audited organisations. The amount of errors detected during our verification was HUF 3.1 billion, which remained well below 2 percent of the total expenditure of the central subsystem of HUF 17 410.3 billion and did not reach 0.02 percent. Compared to 2.9 percent last year, this year only 1.5 percent of the accounts and accounts were given qualified negative opinions. The National Earth Fund spending because of 5,5 percent of the chapter's expenditure? 937.4 million forints? was not accounted for in accordance with the relevant legal requirements. Among the accounts of the institutional titles, we provided the report of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights with a negative rating, as the establishment of the agency's reserve of appropriations did not comply with the legal requirements. Our discharge report confirmed that the financing of the central budget was guaranteed every day of 2013. The EDP deficit, according to the EU methodology, was below the target deficit target of 2.2 per cent of GDP. Keeping budgetary processes in hand has greatly contributed to Hungary's withdrawal from the criminal measures of the excessive deficit procedure in the European Union in June 2013. The deficit was shaped differently by the performance of some of the revenues and expenditure of the central subsystem. While the public assets payments were made in excess of HUF 90 billion, the contributions of the enterprises were HUF 300 billion, the general turnover tax revenues were HUF 144 billion, and the excise duty revenues were HUF 50 billion behind the planned appropriations. On the expenditure side, some subsidies were less than planned, for example, housing subsidies were HUF 50 billion, and the National Family and Social Policy Fund spending was HUF 83 billion less than planned. The revenue and expenditure of budgetary bodies and chapter management appropriations also exceeded the revised appropriations, with a total reduction of HUF 236 billion in the budget balance. At the same time, this is a natural consequence of the implementation of the budget, as the interim use of reserves appears mostly as additional expenditure on these lines. Interest expenditure was HUF 43.5 billion higher than planned, but it was compensated to a significant extent by the fact that interest revenues exceeded the foreseen rate by HUF 39.4 billion. The overall balance of the allocated public funds has also had a positive impact on the development of the cash flow balance of the central subsystem. The government's balance has been further improved by the local government subsystem, its positive salvo above the planned one. The remaining budgetary bodies and appropriations managed by the chapter have continued to rise following the trend of previous years and there has been no lack of work in addition to tight management. The use of reserves was 43.2 percent, and the original HUF 400 billion appropriation of the National Defence Fund was reduced by HUF 84.1 billion to finance the additional costs of certain programmes. Hungary's contribution to the European Union budget in 2013 amounted to HUF 272.3 billion; in 2013 the Hungarian budget planned the use of HUF 1425 billion of EU funds, which exceeded HUF 1583.8 billion, i.e. by 11.1 percent. As in previous years, the government has taken measures to speed up the use of EU funds. As a result, the budget for the operational programmes of the National Strategic Reference Framework was committed to HUF 8204.9 billion for the EU and related domestic co-financing by the end of 2013. The percentage of payments made rose from 40.4 per cent in 2007 to 61.2 per cent by the end of 13th. EU support for agriculture and rural development was committed to 98.3% of the HUF 1420 billion budget available for the New Hungary Rural Development programme by the end of 2013; payments reached 76.7 percent. The number of allocated public funds increased to seven with the Integration Fund of Cooperative Credit Institutions established in the last quarter of 2013. The new fund fulfilled its legal duty. The revenue of the Pension Insurance Fund increased by 9 percent compared to the previous year, due to the increase in the amount due to the social contribution tax and the abolition of the ceiling for the insured contribution. The composition of the revenue side of the Health Insurance Fund changed significantly in 2013 because the Fund no longer benefited from the social contribution tax. The budget contributions increased by HUF 372.6 billion compared to the previous year, which replaced the loss of social contribution tax revenue, thus ensuring the equilibrium. [[10.30]] Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In our monitoring, special emphasis has been placed on assessing the achievement of central budget revenue and expenditure. Tax and tax-related revenues totalled HUF 534.2 billion, 7.2 percent and different levels per tax type compared to planned appropriations. Only 79,4 per cent, 94.6 per cent of consumption-related taxes and 99,8 per cent of population payments were made. With HUF 46.6 billion, HUF 71.9 percent, small business tax, HUF 120.1 billion, HUF 92.2 percent for kiva, HUF 143.6 billion, HUF 4.9 percent for VAT and HUF 49.8 billion for excise duty, 5.3 percent less revenue than planned. In 2013 there was an increase of 6.1 percent compared to the previous year in the amount of tax and tax-related revenues, with a slight shift in proportion to consumption-type, so-called VAT, telecommunications tax, registration tax and financial transaction charges and taxes. In controlling tax revenues, we have identified errors that do not affect reliability in the operation of internal controls on taxes, tax activities and tax controls in particular. Positive: a 38 percent reduction in the number of undetermined acquisition tax cases over 211 days. However, there is still a phenomenon of delays and delays in tax charging cases. The limited number of errors found in tax activities and tax controls were linked to incomplete documentation and deadlines that did not comply with the internal rules. In 2013 the tax and customs revenue base amounted to HUF 2260.9 billion, which exceeded 5,7 percent in 2012. 30.2 percent of the backlog stock was only the backlog of the working taxpayers, which decreased by 4.5 percentage points compared to 2012. Out of the outstanding backlog of its taxpayers, the record shows that it was HUF 245 billion in 2013, which exceeded the 2012 amount by HUF 71 billion. In view of the large amounts, as President of the SAO, I have decided that this year we will carry out an extensive process of full control of the NAV, the tax office, as the change in its effectiveness may significantly affect the revenue trends, tax policies and the evolution of its tax level in the coming years, and, indeed, the issues of economic growth. This is expected to be published by the end of the year. In the case of institutions and appropriations managed by a chapter, 80 organisations have been evaluated for the design and functioning of internal control systems. Seventy-five percent of the control systems received adequate, 22.5 percent adequate, and 2.5 percent? the control system for administrative and chapter management appropriations of an organisation? non-compliant rating. Of the 18 organisations partially qualified, 14 were first checked in 2013. In 2012, 15 percent of the institutions and chapter management appropriations received inadequate ratings. The improvement is shown by greater attention being paid to monitoring activities, continuous and ad hoc monitoring in the framework of operational activities, as well as internal control. In the framework of the audit of the accounts, we assessed the integrity situation of 167 organisations by means of a questionnaire survey, the evaluation of which has also been carried out. During the audit, the SAO's advisory role took place with a focus on integrity issues, which contributed to the more reliable functioning of the audited organisations. Based on the built-up controls and risks, more than a quarter of the organisations have been certified as "excellent", nearly half of them as "appropriate" and a quarter of them to be developed. It should be noted here that both internal controls and integrity control improve qualitatively the assessment of the quality of management if problems are not found by an external audit body, but are constantly managed and prevented by framework managers and institutions throughout the year. Emphasising prevention, I think, is also a key issue for all of us in terms of sustainability of consolidation of the future. Our control is extensive? as I indicated? the implementation of the tasks set out in the Minister of National Economy's regulation relating to the establishment of a profit-based public finance accounting system, with appropriate content and deadlines. In principle, 17 percent of the audited organisations were unable to meet the prescribed deadline of 31 March 2014 due to shortcomings in the established IT system. The inventory related to the transition was not carried out by three organisations in accordance with the rules for those audited. Despite the difficulties and problems associated with the transition in the course of the audit, we firmly believe that the results accounting contributes to a more accurate accounting, creates the possibility of economic accounting among the budgetary bodies, and that the development of the Hungarian accounting and information accounting system can contribute to the standard of accountability requirements in the European Union, and catch up with this higher quality requirement. Dear House, As I referred to at the beginning of my expo, we carried out an analysis of the macroeconomic context of the 2013 budgetary processes in parallel with our discharge check. The SAO's statutory task is to support good governance and the work of the Fiscal Council by carrying out analyses and studies in its responsibilities. In addition, almost two years ago, in the parliamentary debate of the 2011 discharge, you, Members of Parliament, made a demand for the SAO to assess, in addition to monitoring the implementation of the budget, the macroeconomic processes of that year. In view of this, last year we decided to carry out an analysis of the budgetary context of the year in addition to our report. For the second time this year, we have done this work, which is now in your hands, you can use it in the debate. Is the purpose of the study provided to Parliament and downloadable from our website? and this should be discussed separately, since this is not an audit report? In line with the SAO's advisory role, the SAO will review and evaluate the macroeconomic environment and conditions most affecting the evolution of budgetary processes in parallel with the preparation of the discharge bill and the related report of the SAO, as well as the further links between budgetary processes by means of budgetary analysis. The study analyses not only the 2013 processes, but also tries to describe the factors that led to fiscal consolidation and the factors that made it difficult. By analysing forward-looking processes and risks across public finances, the Court also aims to provide a better basis for the 2015 Budget Legislative. As a result, we are not trying to influence the priorities of economic and budgetary policy, but rather to reduce the risks of ways and methods of implementation. [[10.40]] Contrary to our report, we are not making any conclusions in our analysis, but we are setting out questions and dilemmas based on macroeconomic data, and we are pointing out the macroeconomic contexts of budgetary processes. Our aim is to raise awareness of the risks and to draw attention to certain contexts and impacts. I would like to highlight some of these. The economic policy objectives of 2013 were essentially structured around four main priorities. The first is fiscal consolidation. As I mentioned earlier, EDP methodology, i.e. the deficit under the EU method, remained below the target of 2.7 per cent of GDP, is 2.2 per cent of GDP, the 11th best indicator in the European Union out of the 28 Member States. The second is the start of economic growth. This was achieved by 1.1 per cent above the planned 0.7 per cent, which was the 9th best indicator in the European Union in 2013 of the 28 Member States. The third priority is to increase the number of employees. This indicator reached 1.7 per cent above the 0.5 per cent target, which was the 4th best in the European Union last year. The fourth is the reduction of the debt ratio. The debt ratio calculated under the Stability Act decreased by 0.3 percentage points, so the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law was fulfilled. The government debt calculated according to the European Union methodology was 79,2 per cent at the end of 2013. In comparison, the average of the European Union was 88.9 per cent, including the average of the debt ratios of the euro area countries. In conclusion, in 2013, the main macroeconomic indicators created the potential for a sustainable budget and development. For a summary review of macroeconomic developments that have a significant impact on budget revenue and expenditure, public finances and debt developments, most of the key indicators provide information on a significantly improved macroeconomic environment. The main shaping factors were the improvement of external economic conditions and a more balanced structure of growth, thirdly the economic impact of government measures, and fourthly the positive expectations of economic operators. The redistribution shall be the transfer of income from the holding between economic operators. State redistribution is a very controversial topic throughout economic literature, but also in economic policy, which is why I believe that this analysis can provide important additives for this context. This measure is therefore revenue centralisation, i.e. the ratio of general government revenue to GDP. This shows, in everyday language, what the role of the state in the life of a country is, in fact, and how the size of the state's task changes. In 2013, the budgetary balance was shaped so that the centralisation ratio was 1 percentage point higher and the redistribution rate was 1.2 percentage point higher than in 2012. In this context, it was important that EU aid increased by 45 percent, by HUF 495 billion compared to the previous year, and that the redistribution rate in 2013 was 0.7 percentage points higher than the EU-28 average? Where, by the way, 49.1 percent? and agreed with the value of the euro area. In this respect, Hungary belongs to the group of countries in the middle of the European Union. By comparison, in the Visegrad countries the rate of redistribution was lower than in Hungary, in Slovakia 38.7 percent, in Poland 41.9 percent, in the Czech Republic 42.4 percent in 2013. This is the competitive group of countries within which Hungary's assessment is also described as a competitive disadvantage in terms of more sensitive interest and costs by creditors and analysts, whether in Hungary or abroad. That is why we think it is worth putting it in its place and putting it in the debate, at least with our analyses. During the presentation of our audit, I pointed out that in 2013 the tax and fiscal revenues of the central budget increased by 6.1 percent and HUF 392.5 billion compared to the fact-2012. In addition to an increase of 2.8 per cent in the population, the actual increase was due to a loss of 0.4 per cent of the payments made by the entities and a 9.5 per cent increase in taxes related to consumption. This difference is a good indication of the accelerated trend that the tax structure has shifted further towards consumption related taxes. Their share of tax and tax revenues increased from 52 percent in 2010 to 54 percent in 11 and 57.2 percent in 12 and 59.1 percent in 13 respectively. The use of EU funds is also of paramount importance in terms of macroeconomic and national economies. In 2012, the level of EU funding was only slightly higher than in 2011, whereas in 13 the performance of the 12th year amounted to HUF 495.2 billion, the already mentioned HUF 1583.8 billion from EU funds. At the same time, domestic support for EU funds for 2013 entered in the 2013 budget was increased by HUF 77.7 billion, thus increasing the actual expenditure of the central budget compared to 2012 and the deficit had to be managed, with this increase. In the first half of the year, the appropriations for structural support managed by the chapter were much lower than expected, as some operational EU programmes, such as transport, environment and energy, are temporarily suspended for social renewal, accounting for the costs submitted to the European Commission and thus the transfer of EU funds has not been fully carried out. However, during the second half of the year, negotiations with the European Commission led to the recovery of the rates and the transfer of suspended EU funds took place between October and November. With regard to the use of EU funds, we should point out from the point of view of risk management that structural projects, especially those under the priority national strategic reference framework, have such a high degree of time volatility and deviation from appropriations that they pose a high risk to the achievement of the annual budgetary process and development policy objectives, while the use of resources obviously helps economic consolidation. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In compiling our analysis, we have also applied new aspects and perspectives. Such is the fact that rather than the revenue-side approach that has been used in most macroeconomic analyses, we have placed great emphasis on examining the expenditure side. [[10.50]] In 2013, the overall increase in budget expenditure deteriorated the balance of the government sector in 2013 compared to the previous year 2012. On the other hand, the increase in expenditure has had the positive effect of increasing direct public demand by 0.7 percentage points of GDP, thus contributing to the expansion of domestic demand on the market.In 2012 and 13, the main characteristics of functional structural changes in public expenditure are also instructive, so let me say something about them separately. In 2013, the proportion of public expenditure increased to 16.8 percent, compared with 15,1 percent in 2012. This is due to a large increase in the share of general public service expenditure by nearly 2 percentage points, resulting from an increase in expenditure on legislative and enforcement bodies and financial and budgetary activities and services. Another important point is that in 2013, the proportion of funding for welfare functions decreased to 56.7 percent compared to 58.9 percent last year. Within welfare expenditure, the share of social security and welfare services decreased by 2 percentage points in 2013 compared to the previous year, while the share of education decreased by 0.1 percentage points and the share of healthcare increased by 0.1 percentage points compared to the previous year. Thirdly, the share of expenditure on economic functions increased by 2 percentage points in 2013 compared to the previous year, indicating the economic activity of the government, the country in this area. The increase in share was particularly high, increased by 1.3 percentage points. This can be seen in the transport and telecommunications sectors and, to a lesser extent, covered other economic activities. In the fourth area, it is worth considering the proportion of expenditure on debt management. In 2012-13 it was a stable 8.7 and 8.6 percentage points, but it is worth comparing, on a scale equivalent to the total expenditure on health in Hungary, which will otherwise represent similar ratios and burdens in the budget planning and implementation process for many years. Our analysis also looked at the financial balances of local authorities. The revenue surplus of the municipalities in 2013 was HUF 112.8 billion, which is 0.4 percent of GDP. This is HUF 22.5 billion higher than the revenue surplus in 2012 and is HUF 97.8 billion more favourable than the revised budget by 0.3 percent of GDP. In 2013, the expenditure of the municipalities developed close to the planned expenditure, with a difference of only 0.8 per cent. Taking into account the measures taken in the local government sector in 2013 and in the first half of 2014, taking into account the effects and significant structural changes, the improvement in budgetary discipline in relation to the local government system providing outstanding balance performance is at low risk that the situation of municipal management has stabilised as a result of the reform measures implemented, and the favourable fiscal balance of the municipalities can be planned safely over the longer term. If, of course, there are well-founded improvements with funding sources? Think, in particular, about EU support, but also about investment from credit. Even bangs? and municipalities will also be able to pay attention to another area in order to make certain loss-making activities and tasks remaining in their area eligible for funding. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that with the work of the State Audit Office, the report and the analysis, Parliament has been able to make a substantial contribution to making an informed decision on the adoption of the closing accounting bill and to facilitate the better foundation of the 2015 budget bill. Our discharge report shows that Hungary was able to manage its budget in 2013 as well, in a disciplined and sustainable way, thus contributing to the consolidation of the economy. Our analysis can also serve as a useful starting point for budgetary planning. Using our experience, alternative solutions, substitution options that can base on more efficient budget planning and regulation can be more widely identified on both the expenditure and revenue sides. In addition, the study can contribute to the development of conditions for the development of a sustainable development budget by reviewing and evaluating macroeconomic processes and the environment affecting the budget, presenting the main risks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-10-14-22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the keynote speaker, followed by the speech of the first independent Member in a 15-minute time frame, followed by the speech of the minority advocates invited by the committee representing the interests of nationalities in a 15-minute time frame. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches under the rules of the House. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, for the speeches to be held in the 30-minute time frame, in the first place, to come to the stand and hold his speech from there. I'll wait for Congressman, Mr. notary, to rise above me. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-14-23	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President of the State Audit Office. First of all, it's a personal thought. In 2001, I had the opportunity to discuss the closing report here in Parliament for the first time, and we did this work with Mr András Tállai. There are significant changes compared to that; we could and could say that the 2013 closing bill is one of the least exciting legislative proposals in recent years. I would like to summarise the reasons for this, both Mr State Secretary and the President of the Court of Auditors have already said that the Hungarian Parliament has for a very long time not dealt with the discharge law that is so well-founded and so few things that are going back to work, since the government of national cooperation and Parliament, I can say, have done a good job in planning the budget for the previous year and in implementing it last year. It can be said that the 2013 budget of the Republic of Hungary has been implemented in a legal and orderly and transparent manner in line with the State Court's report. Security, predictability and transparency can be said to be his most important virtue. The 2013 management has successfully contributed to the implementation of the management principles set out in the basic law through consolidation. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, we must also consider as a novelty that, compared to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period, the closing accounting law did not have to apply retroactively to the budget law or other sub-schemes. It is a special pleasure that the State Audit Office also gave a positive assessment of the implementation of the budget in its report. Those who have been here in Parliament for the last 25 years know precisely that the State Audit Office reports have not always been so positive. [[11.00]] It is also a great achievement that without a greater correction, the flexibility of internal reserves and the transfer of internal reserves to processes have managed to keep the budget figures. The bill is the 2011 XCV on public finances. Law 90. § 1 (1) provides for the implementation of the closing accounting provisions. According to the relevant provisions, the bill on the implementation of the budget must be submitted by the Government to Parliament by 31 August within eight months of the budget year, and the State Court of Auditors shall also be sent two months before submission to Parliament by 30 June. These obligations were fulfilled by the Ministry of National Economy or by the Government within the deadline. It should be pointed out that, following the parliamentary submission of the bill, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office published on 30 September the GDP and GNI data compiled on the basis of the new methodology applicable from September 2014 and the national account data of the national sectors. The new methodology was used for the first time in the 2014 Autumn EDP report in meeting the reporting obligation for the purpose of determining the excessive deficit. On this basis, the macroeconomic and budgetary parameters set out in the reasoning of the draft discharge law submitted were also modified. This material, this bill, already contains the revised macroeconomic and budgetary figures. Thank you very much to the Ministry for this amendment. About the changes in brief. From September 2014, the methodology for compiling national accounts changed, and the Member States of the European Union switched from the previous SA 1995 settlement system to SA 2010. The new methodology follows changes in the economic environment, taking into account new research results and users' needs. As a result of the change, the fundamental macroeconomic and statistical indicators for the previous period, including the value of GDP, have also changed in order to ensure comparability. In addition, the methodology for deficit and debt calculation has been amended. There have been three major changes affecting the Maastricht deficit and debt under the EU methodology. First, the change in sector classification rules, which entities are within the government sector, the new management of the clearing of assets for lump-sum transfers to TB, and the change in the settlement of swaps. The text of the bill is the same as on the financing of the 2013 budget, on issues related to the rules of implementation , discusses the management of public debt. The bill contains provisions on the implementation of the financial appropriations for the social security funds. Does the bill include the expenditure and revenue of the central budget, the approval of the deficit? Is Annex 1 to the bill related to this? , the accounts of local authorities included in Annexes 2 to 7, as well as the commitment framework appropriations for Union programmes and their fulfilment, as set out in Annex 8. A few words on the evaluation of economic and budgetary policy processes linked to the closure of accounts. In 2013, the government continued to achieve its economic policy objectives announced at the beginning of the government cycle, including keeping the budget deficit low, reducing public debt, improving the country's competitiveness, increasing employment and increasing its growth potential. Of course, he felt that after the global economic crisis, the high foreign exchange debt of households had become a barrier to the recovery of internal demand. With the government's actions, it reduced the burden of hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-credit families. Among other things, the introduction of end-payments, the remaining exchange rate barrier and the establishment of the National Asset Manager. The draft 2013 budget was amended in autumn 2012 as the external conditions for growth deteriorated significantly as a result of the prolonged debt crisis in Europe and the decline in the global economy as a whole. However, following the slowdown experienced in 2012, the economy of our main external trade partners again increased in 2013. In addition to the recovery of external demand, the development of growth has been facilitated by the rise in the production of capacity generated by automotive investment in previous years, while new investments have also increased the capacity of the manufacturing industry. As a result of these effects, the gross domestic product increased by 1.5 per cent faster than the assumed 0.9 per cent of the budget in the autumn, based on the September data reviewed by the HCSO. The growth of Hungarian exports of 5.9 percent exceeded its market share in 2013. The rate of growth of imports was the same as that of exports. As a result of these processes, foreign trade has continued to make a positive contribution to growth. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The number of employees increased significantly in 2013. The number of people employed in the private sector increased by 0.4 percent, while the growth of the public sector by 4.6 percent is linked to the higher number of public employees. The unemployment rate decreased significantly by 0.7 per cent and declined to 10.2 per cent compared to previous years. The increase of the minimum wage of 5.4 per cent and the guaranteed minimum wage of 5.6 per cent at the beginning of the year encouraged wage increases and kept inflation expectations low throughout the year. The average gross earnings in the national economy rose by 3.4 percent compared to last year. Inflation was also significantly lower than planned, with prices rising on average by 1.7 percent in 2013 according to preliminary data. The significant increase in the real economic surplus was also reflected in the current balance of payments, after a 1.9 per cent surplus in 2012, a 4.1 per cent activity was created in 2013. A few words about fiscal processes. The 2013 budget year is decided by two processes. In the first half of the year, Hungary was still subject to an excessive deficit procedure. To close the procedure, the government in the spring? Although you disagreed with the Commission's macroeconomic forecasts? has decided on measures to improve the general government balance. In this context, it adopted provisions which did not affect families, aid to individuals, but aimed primarily at reducing expenditure on public operations, so there has been no restrictions on the population that have been experienced in the past since 2010. The first step of the three-step series of proposals was close to HUF 93 billion, i.e. a cut-off and a cut-off of 0.3 percent of GDP. The state was saving up on its own expenses. As a second step, the government sought to offset the financing of one-off investments by realising revenues. To this end, by amending the 2013 Finance Act, it established an investment fund, under which one-off investments can be financed only from the sale or exploitation of one-off State assets. In order to ensure that the target deficit target can be achieved even if budgetary developments become unfavourable due to unexpected unforeseen events, the government decided to take further measures to improve the balance of public finances in the long term in order to maintain economic growth and financial stability. [[11.10]] The first part of this is the increase of the transaction fee and the level of the telecommunications tax. In the second half of the year, after the completion of the overdeficit procedure, it became clear that the deficit target could be maintained with certainty, thanks to the measures, the recovery in the economy and the savings and the concession revenues generated by the extension of the right to use the spectrum for each item of expenditure. The improved budgetary processes and the significant amount of risk reserve have allowed for a partial lifting of expenditure-side measures. The general government deficit in 2013 amounted to HUF 819.9 billion, which is 2.7 percent of GDP. I would like to remind everyone here that here in Parliament, abroad, they did not believe in every forum that this deficit target could be kept at 2.7 percent or even believed that it could be kept below 3 percent. However, the most important sentence was that Hungary was released from the excessive deficit procedure; the work that the government had done had to be recognised, of course, with the help of all Hungarian people. Within the central sub-sector of public finances, the budget deficit of HUF 985.3 billion was much lower than planned, mainly due to higher tax revenues and good management. The HUF 51.7 billion surplus of the allocated state funds was created in 2013 by the Research and Technology Innovation Fund of HUF 27.1 billion, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund of HUF 19.8 billion, the National Employment Fund of HUF 3 billion, the National Cultural Fund of HUF 1.1 billion, the Integration Fund of Cooperative Credit Institutions of HUF 0.5 billion, the HUF 0.4 billion surplus of the Bethlen Gábor Fund and the HUF 200 million deficit of the Wesselényi Miklós Price and Internal Water Protection Compensation Fund. The balance of the allocated public funds was thus established in 2013 at an order of minus HUF 7.4 billion. Social security funds closed 2013 with a surplus of HUF 800 million, consisting of a surplus of HUF 1.3 billion from the Pension Insurance Fund and a deficit of HUF 0.5 billion from the Health Insurance Fund. In 2013, a surplus of HUF 112.9 billion was created in the local government subsystem of public finances, which is about HUF 127.9 billion more favourable than the planned deficit of HUF 15 billion. The significant improvement is due, on the one hand, to disciplined farming, to cuts in operating expenditure and, on the other hand, to strict government control of borrowing. It should be noted that the economic situation of the municipalities was significantly improved by the government's start in 2012 and final closure of the government's debt consolidation in 2014. You know that this has developed in at least three steps. First, by fully taking over the debt of the municipalities of less than 5 thousand, then by taking over the municipalities of more than 5 thousand between 40 and 70 per cent, and at the beginning of 2014 by taking over the remaining municipal debt. A few words on the issue of public debt, ladies and gentlemen. When assessing public debt, we need to separate the debt ratio calculated according to two methods. According to the provisions of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, the 2011 CXCIV on economic stability. Law defined the definition of public debt. However, the government debt calculated according to the EU methodology, the debt calculated on the Maastricht basis, differs at some points from the government debt under Hungarian law. The Gstv. Government debt is a concept supported by accounting concepts and data, while Maastricht debt is a statistical category, mainly a product of statistical data collection and, to a lesser extent, of the processing of accounting data. The most important part of both debt indicators, with these differences, is the debt of the budget. This increase in 2013 was mainly due to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates and, on the other hand, to government debt transfers not yet included in the plans at the end of 2013. At the end of the year, the actual exchange rate against the exchange rate of EUR 296.90/forint was HUF 291.29 at the end of 2012, which increased the value of the foreign exchange debt at the end of the year. In June 2013, a debt transfer of HUF 593,3 billion was made to the settlements above the 5 thousand mentioned above, which significantly increased the debt of the central budget, mainly the foreign exchange debt of the central budget and, to a lesser extent, the debt of the forint. At the general government level, this debt transfer did not increase public debt, as debt went from one sub-scheme to another. In 2013, the central budget's cash-flow debt was nominally HUF 1278.6 billion, an increase of 6.2 percent compared to HUF 20 720.1 billion in 2012. About half of this increase, HUF 593 billion, is explained by the above-mentioned debt transfer, without which the debt increase is less than the lack of the central sub-scheme for public finances. The debt ratio calculated according to the European Union methodology decreased to 77,3 per cent from the previous 78,5 per cent. Thus, it can be concluded that the government debt has gradually decreased in the last year, and that interest expenditure and, indirectly, debt levels have been mitigated by the initial interest rate reduction of the Bank of Hungary's 2012 base rate reduction. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude my speech with a few statements. In particular, according to our findings, 2013 was the year of economic turnaround, which could have been the result of the simultaneous implementation of four main priorities. The first point is budgetary stabilisation, persistently low budget deficits below 3 per cent. The country has been removed from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004 and the current account has closed with 4.1 percent in 2013. Our primary balance, the balance calculated without interest payments, remained positive, HUF 331.5 billion. [[11.20]] More economic growth than expected? which was 1.5 percent? it was mainly due to an increase in investments, and they were not due to credit, as we could get used to under socialist governments, but primarily from own resources. In addition to the government's economic policy, a positive external recovery has also contributed to the turn of growth. Both the automotive industry and the manufacturing industry contributed significantly to the increase in exports, with around 5.9 percent; low inflation, 1.7 percent, which was also due to the reduction of costs. It has been said several times, but we must also say here that the use of EU funds has improved. The government also left more money than people with single-key personal income tax, which mainly strengthened consumption. Point 3 is an increase in the number of employees in the competitive sector, as I have already mentioned, by 0.4 per cent and in the public sector by 4.6 per cent; the reduction in unemployment rates, the increase in gross average earnings by about 3.4 per cent and the importance of the action plan for the protection of jobs, which has already contributed to the maintenance of more than 800,000 workers' jobs this year. Point 4 can be summarised by reducing indebtedness. The government has recognised that one of the barriers to economic growth is the over-indebtedness of the population. In order to reduce this, a number of measures were taken last year by the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier and the National Asset Manager. In addition to households, the government also supported local governments and the government's debt ratio decreased from 78.5 percent to 77.3%. It should be noted here that the EU average is 88.9 percent and the euro area has a similar debt ratio of 95 percent. Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr. President. On this basis, the Republic of Hungary In addition to the opinion of the State Audit Office, the draft law on its closure in 2013, it strongly recommends that the Fidesz-KDNP fraction be negotiated and adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-24	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, is coming to a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr President of the SAO, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, If it is to be summarised in a sentence or two that the year 2013, which is reflected in the closing accounts, was actually what year, then I must say to you that, unfortunately, it was the year of increasing taxes; secondly, if we look at the development of real earnings and real incomes in a multi-annual perspective, in spite of all the positive trends in 2013, in a multi-annual perspective? it was the year of income and earnings coming down. If we look at the budget presented and the closure report, which reflects the implementation of this, it was a year of brutal austerity. The only thing I agree with the Fidesz lead speaker before me was, yes, the year of rising public debt, I might add? Did he mention that? And it was the year of the weakening forint. Finally, it was the year of a hasty and unpredictable economic policy. The essence of these social and economic changes is that Fidesz introduced a kind of state-of-the-art ponzi scheme in Hungary, which is that the more someone finds themselves at the bottom of a pyramid, the more money is drawn from it, and the more high-income people at the top of the pyramid get more benefits. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let's look at the findings in detail. First of all, the Fidesz government has promised to cut taxes. However, he did do the reverse of this: after 2010, he introduced more taxes than he had abolished, much more than he had introduced, about thirty new tax codes, but not only has he multiplied the tax races, we can not only observe a multitude of tax types, but unfortunately, as a logical consequence, we can also observe an increase in the tax rate. If you look at this in summary, the government collected nearly HUF 6900 billion more tax in 2013 than in the previous year of 2012. It has already been said whether this is the result of what processes and whether it is right for the government to say that it is not about the increase in the burden of some people, but about the fact that more people pay taxes in the country, and this is actually something to be happy about, which is why more taxes have been introduced into the budget, which they also do not deny. If we look at the facts now, then unfortunately, this statement is not true in this form, because it is the one-key tax that Fidesz introduced? And over several years, have you continuously developed the elements of your previous personal income tax? Most people didn't bring a tax reduction, they brought a tax increase. Fidesz today is proud that more people pay taxes in Hungary than before. But why should you be proud, ladies and gentlemen, that those who earn minimum wage and did not have to pay taxes at the time of socialist governments, because we exempt them from tax tax in the form of tax credits, were taxed by Fidesz? Why should it be welcomed in pro-government lines that if someone has paid zero percent personal income tax, then they will now pay 16 percent personal income tax? Ladies and gentlemen. A lot of people earn minimum wages in Hungary, most people earn minimum wages in the competition sector, or pay in the wage band around it. These people have increased their taxes per person compared to what they had to pay under socialist governments. These are processes that are undeniable. The Orbán government has also brought a tax reduction, it is true: in the highest income range, as I mentioned earlier, the people at the top of the pyramid have had a serious reduction in their taxes. This would not be a problem in itself, but partly by raising taxes on low- or medium-income earners, the government has created this, and that is what we consider to be harmful, particularly unacceptable from a social point of view. I must also tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that while the government declared a family-friendly policy, in the meantime? If we look carefully at the numbers? we can see that the development of real earnings has not been at all favourable for families, and that, overall, the statistics have shown these negative trends: the real income of families with one and two children has decreased more in terms of the two-year period than that of families with no children. Compared to 2011, in 2013, when we look at all the people, their real income was nearly 1 percent lower. If we look at this by family type, I have to say that while for families with no children, real income decreased by about 0.5 per cent over two years compared to 2011 with annual averages, this was already 1.6 per cent for families with one child, while for families with two children, the reduction in real income in two years was about 1.4 per cent. [[11.30]] So, while the government was talking about supporting families, in 2013, taking into account the trend over the last two years, most of the families? because most of the families have one or two children? her real income was reduced at family level. I have already mentioned, Mr House, that 2013 was also a year of brutal austerity. The government is now proud that the deficit figures have been met, and we have received praise from Brussels on this issue, which is otherwise correct. I would quietly note that before that, the government declared a fight for freedom against Brussels, and in a few months' time, it took pride in changing its position to meet EU standards. It's not wrong, I'm just suggesting that you weren't aware of these effects before. In order to meet these goals, brutal restrictions were required, in 2013 some HUF 1000 billion were drawn from the support of areas as important as health care, education, pension systems and social care systems compared to previous years. We can't be proud of that. I must also say that all of this has been achieved by increasing public debt. In this respect, the fidesz keynote speech was also a partial confession, which admitted this, although he added that different methods can be used here. Yes, there are ways. Domestic practice seeks to determine the trend on the basis of a one-month government debt indicator, and therefore the government does not hesitate to use different tricks in order to show a real reduction in government debt compared to the previous December in one month, in December. Unfortunately, public debt is of such a nature that it is not a single month's data to be taken into account. Even though the government is tricky, even though it is holding back payments for a given month, it doesn't change the general trend, even if it cuts down the amount of money in the treasury single account to a much smaller extent in December. The general trend is what the November, January, February and March data reflect, namely the fight against public debt, the Orbán government has failed. Whether we take into account the aggregate number of sovereign debt or the development of the various indicators of government debt, we cannot talk about a declining debt path, on the contrary, the Hungarian debt is greater than ever before, greater than at the beginning of Viktor Orbán's government, and the ratio of government debt to the performance of the economy, even according to the recent statistics of the Hungarian National Bank, shows an increasing trend. For the last time, this indicator may have been as bad as it has been in 1994. This rising government debt, as has been said before, is partly due to the weakening forint. My fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, referred in his speech to the fact that the forint was weakened. It has indeed weakened, and in 2011, 2012 and 2013 we could still guess why. The reason is that the government and the Hungarian National Bank simply leave the forint to their fate, or the underlying intentions will be behind it. Now we know, because neither the various members of the government nor the President of the Central Bank himself hide that they do not have any price targets in mind. It follows that there is a strong suspicion that the weakening of the forint is the result of conscious economic and monetary policy, not only did the government and the central bank leave the forint to its fate, but it intervened with its own means in order to weaken this forint. The Hungarian National Bank's potential goal has recently been revealed, since the Hungarian National Bank must be normally loss-making, like all central banks in the world and in many countries of Europe, since we are not talking about a profit-oriented economic enterprise, but rather about an institution whose primary task is to protect the forint, to curb inflation, to create price stability, and that is more important than that of the institution that is profitable or loss-making. In short, this trend can be summarized, this link is that if the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is loss-making, the majority of people and the majority of businesses are profitable, while in reverse cases we can say that if the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is profitable, Hungary will pay the price. This is exactly what happened, the forint has been weakened, and it is paid by the whole country, partly by the increase and swelling of foreign currency loans, as it is due in HUF, and partly by the unfavourable development of government debt, and the debt is to be paid by all of us, perhaps even our grandchildren, and certainly not perhaps, by our grandchildren. And this profit, which came from the weakening of the forint, was an excellent opportunity for the President of the Central Bank to introduce wasteful farming that has never been done before, and to spend hundreds of billions of forints on personal allspaces and passes such as the purchase of luxury estates and the promotion of a specific educational program. In 2013, as the forint weakened, the profits of the central bank rose thus, and it is now quite clear what caused this, ladies and gentlemen. If we are talking about how predictable this budget was, and this is economic policy, well, I have to say that in 2013 the country had a hasty and unpredictable economic policy. Let's start with how this all started. György Matolcsy said that the Hungarian road is a fairy tale, which will be successful within a year, and the print of this is the 2013 budget. The government also added that it considers stability to be so important that in 2013 it will otherwise submit the country's budget in a completely unusual way already during the summer. Yes, but since then we know that this has not been preceded by any calculation, or, if so, these calculations can be discarded, because the budget we adopted in December is hardly similar to what the government has submitted in the summer. In fact, there has been an unprecedented case in which the Government has sent to the Fiscal Council a binding opinion other than what it has finally submitted to Parliament. The decision of the Budget Council of 16 July stated that, since the submission of the draft budget law for 2013, Parliament has adopted a number of proposals which significantly modify the revenue and expenditure side of the budget and the tax system in several cases. As a result, the number of corners voted on by the budget differs fundamentally from the draft budget law examined by the Council. And as for the fairy tale, what seemed like a fairy tale to György Matolcsy was, in many cases, a nightmare for people. Fidesz likes to call 2013 the year of turnaround, which is undoubtedly true from the point of view that, while in 2012, Viktor Orbán and his government had a serious fall in economic policy, this decline stopped in 2013. [[11.40]] But if we look at the modest growth that the economy produced in 2013, what it feeds on, then we can see that the most important component of this is the performance of agriculture. If we look at the performance of agriculture, it is quite clear that in 2012 an unprecedented weather and an unprecedentedly bad agricultural production occurred, while in 2013 a favorable weather resulted in normal agricultural production and in much better agricultural production compared to 2012. So this turn of events is not primarily of an economic policy nature, which the government claims to be a turnaround, which is mostly a change in weather. Weather change and consequently a better agricultural production. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. The budget submitted by the government in the summer and adopted by the Parliament in December, after a month and a half, has already had to be amended. In fact, the Parliament changed the budget to various proposals seven times in that year. So when my fellow Members say that we have fulfilled the deficit target, I say that we have, but please add that, among other things, because the original untenable numbers have been corrected several times. In fact, not only the original untenable figures have been corrected, but Hungary's budget has been amended for the sake of new ideas on the way. That is all, but not predictable and transparent economic policy. The only reason the government and Parliament didn't change the budget every month, ladies and gentlemen, is because there was a summer break, which is why, after all, the Parliament has not touched this adopted law twelve times. In fact, if we look at what the government has created funds for, because it has new ideas, then there are some very scandalous issues among them. One of the amending budgets, this House, has become necessary because the government has made an eye on E.ON's natural gas wholesale. He didn't just look at her, he bought her. This was one of the reasons why the budget was amended. It is now clear that this was a completely wrong purchase, which is a source of serious losses. It is now clear that the declaration of intent, the preliminary agreement, has been concluded without taking into account very serious risk factors. Even after the announced intention, expert analyses have shown that the purchase of this branch carries hundreds of billions of HUF risks. Viktor Orbán and his government were not bothered by this, he was not interested. However, after several lawsuits, the government was forced to issue these background calculations to the press. It became clear that the purchase of E.ON's natural gas wholesale could lead to a loss of up to HUF 600 billion. In particular, due to the risk that Hungary will have to transfer the price of a certain quantity of gas as a result of the agreement with Russia, even if it does not request its delivery. This could lead to a loss of hundreds of billions of forints. It is typical that this agreement that was concluded before the crisis has not been renegotiated. However, it would be justified, and this is a risk factor which cannot be passed without a word, which made it clear that one of the amendments that led you to change the budget that you have already adopted is against the interests of Hungary. It could mean hundreds of billions of forints in losses. And what God does, one of the beneficiaries of this treaty is the Gazprom, the president of which was recently received by Viktor Orbán. More and more questions arise about these negotiations, and more and more doubts arise as to whether these agreements are appropriate to the interests of the country. It is certain that hundreds of billions of forints of losses do not correspond to this interest. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. 2013 is the year of successively modified budgets, 2013 is a year in which the government has introduced a particular piloting game, and the essence of this policy, this piloting game, is that the more people are below social incomes, the worse they are, the more taxes they have to pay; the more people are at the top of the pyramid in terms of salaries, the more discounts they can expect. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, is unacceptable whether this process is reflected in the 2013 discharge or not. Given that this is unacceptable to us, this bill will not be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-14-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, lead speaker of the KDNP Group, will be taking the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-10-14-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mr László Domokos, President of SAO Sometimes you feel like you didn't spend 2013 in the same country. It goes without saying that the opposition's task is to hold a mirror to the government and to present all the changes and measures that it considers to be wrong, which could be a problem and a problem in the country's life. This speech, described in extremely dark colors, also shows that 2013 has brought terrible suffering and hardship to the people of the country. But, honourable Member, macroeconomic figures are stubborn things, they are facts, and the facts, as I have said, are stubborn things, and clearly indicate that 2013 was the year of economic and budgetary turnaround, and this is largely supported by the bill on the agenda and by the Court of Auditors' report on the implementation of the accounts. The expozee and the President of the State Audit Office are very detailed, and I could say that the remark was unusually detailed and almost comprehensive. If you don't mind, Congressman, I am also obliged to respond that the President of the State Audit Office is one of the members of the Fiscal Council, and in this respect, I believe that in this capacity, all the negatives that you believe were typical of the year behind us would have appeared in his speech in the sense of ambition to be objective. I see that the country's management, budget was characterised by security, predictability and transparency. As a result, last year Hungary was once again able to stand on its own two feet. Then, after a decade, we got off the bench of shame, as in July 2013 our country was removed from the European Union's excessive deficit procedure. [[11.50]] This is primarily the result of the consciously planned and managed fiscal policy that started with the change of government in 2010. The Fundamental Law created by the Parliament and its first fundamental law, the new Court of Auditors law, have brought responsible public financial management to a constitutional level and has finally closed the period of economic policy based on indebtedness. And the guarantee system built into the Stability Act, which prevents the country from being indebted, ensures that we are not once again in a vulnerable situation, and that no one else decides on the fate and future of our own children and grandchildren, the Hungarian people. For the past four years, it is safe to say that the country has taken control of its fate, which, above all, had to be swept in front of our own house and put in order. Was responsible budget planning and implementation necessary? As the President of the SAO has said and confirmed in detail in several places? Accordingly, but at the same time, public financial controls had to be put on a new footing. I think that these may have been one of the most important steps of the new Parliament, which was established in 2010, since the state of state finances basically defines a country's room for manoeuvre and opportunities for development. In addition to the government's economic policy programme, the planned and innovative planning of the current central budget, its orderly implementation and, as a third pillar, regular and comprehensive monitoring of public finance users have established the basis for reducing public debt, launching economic growth and thus increasing employment. It is clear from the bill, the expoze and the report of the State Audit Office that the macroeconomic processes of 2013 confirm the correctness of the decisions taken after 2010 and also send a message to all Hungarians that the decisions taken here in Parliament affect their daily lives in substance. The macroeconomic indicators for 2013 all show that, thanks to a rigorous and well-managed fiscal policy, our country has left behind the years of the economic crisis and the bloody years caused by irresponsible fiscal management before 2010. As we know, and as I mentioned, the numbers don't lie, and the facts are stubborn. The decline in government deficits and debt ratios, the start-up of economic growth and the steady increase in employment show that Hungary is on the right track. The debt typical of the years before 2010 has attacked our country on several levels. The irresponsible fiscal policy, the drastic increase in public debt, the simultaneous indebtedness of municipalities, businesses and the population have affected the negative effects. Let's remember. In 2008-2009, even the threat of bankruptcy arose, so much so that the then prime ministers called a separate economic meeting and a budget meeting to the Hunting Room; there were several of us there, and we know very well that this was the first package of measures that tried to manage things in some form. With effective public intervention, with the continuous deleveraging of debt accumulated in the years before 2010, oil has for the first time come into the stalling gears, thanks to the tough and systematic work of recent years. The machine's working. In addition to reducing the debt of the central budget, it was at least as important to take over the debt burden on the municipalities and reduce the public's tax burden and reduce public utility charges in several stages. Ladies and gentlemen, It is simply not true that there was no real income growth in 2013, it is not true that there was no increase in employment, even if some of my opposition fellow Members were constantly trying to steal it into the public. It can be concluded that the government's economic policy measures and strict fiscal policy have led to an increase in investment, increased exports as a result of investments, more responsibility for farming, in all areas, in fiscal policy, and increased internal consumption. As a result of the reduction in overhead and inflation, real income did increase, as the Secretary of State said, not even slightly in 2013. Industrial production has definitely and noticeably increased and construction has become a driving force. As early as 2013, construction produced around 10 percent results. The production and service sectors have expanded, and yes, agriculture has also closed for a good year, despite the fact that 2013 was characterised by large waters, floods and heavy rains when one remembers. I know it's hard to remember for two years or a year, and it's nuanced by the human brain setting up the details, but the facts are still the facts. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Audit Office also found that the implementation of the 2013 central budget was in line with the legal requirements, the discharge bill is well founded and that the data contained in the bill are reliable, i.e. if they are reliable, their reality is correct and true. In addition, macroeconomic analyses show that in 2013 the main macroeconomic indicators created the potential for both a sustainable budget and development. On this basis, I highly recommend the adoption of the bill on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, while thanking the Ministry of National Economy and the State Audit Office for its work on this. Thank you all for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, has come to the floor. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On each occasion, closing accounts give us the opportunity to assess the country's economic performance over the past year, as we have economic data based on objective measurements that allow us to compare and show where we are going. Obviously, these data are often based on methodologies that hide part of the reality, but many things are clearly seen from the processes. It was an interesting part of the debate when MEP Lajos Szűcs argued for the stability of the budget here before me, saying that no one believed the Hungarian government that it would keep the budget deficit. Dear gentlemen, he did not hold the deficit under the original Finance Act, because this required extraordinary government measures, so what was originally written down in the Finance Act is indeed justified on the basis of the fact that no one believed the government that the deficit would be possible. In May, the government decided to block the amount of 0.3 per cent of GDP, in June it decided on 0.4 per cent of GDP in the form of closures, and this has been the case since 2010 every year. [[12.00]] I have to say that in 2011, 2012 and 2013, the Fidesz government amended its own budget more often than in 2010 the budget drawn up by the Socialist Government. Think about it. At a time when someone argues for the stability of the budget, and in May and June the budget must be touched, does that mean a stable state? Are the numbers contained in this budget bill believable? Was there a Budget Council for the country once? Of course, there is now, but his function has completely changed, his apparatus is gone? This Board of Budgets was led by a man with whom I disagreed on a lot of things, but I thought he was a well-prepared economist. In effect, the Government has abolished the Fiscal Council by removing György Kopits, the president of the Committee of the Regions, who is an international authority. Once again, I disagreed with him on a lot of things, and I follow a different economic approach than him, but there was no doubt that there was an apparatus, completely independent of the government, alongside the SAO, which did professional work based on sound calculations in order to be able to accept a budget on a sound basis. This year, the State Audit Office produced a material that not only shows us the results of the closing accounts, but also supported an analysis by the SAO. I would particularly like to thank President Domokos for this, as I myself said in the previous debates on the budget that the SAO has accumulated considerable expertise and expertise. This intellectual capital is capable of analysing certain processes and has put down a comprehensive and concise, truly high-quality analytical work on the table by the SAO President, which, I believe, helps all Members. I know it doesn't become a mass reading, it doesn't become a bestseller, because very few people are interested in similar writings, but anyone who cares, I think, has an important opinion. I'm very happy with this analytical work. It is also worth looking at the development of the public debt mentioned above. At the time of the economic crisis in the autumn of 2008, Hungary faced huge problems: a risk of bankruptcy, a drastic deterioration of Hungary's credit rating, a large increase in public debt, and the Orbán government started its activities by drastically reducing public debt. Six different fiscal adjustment packages marked the past years: Kálmán Széll Plan I., Kálmán Széll Plan II. It is worth seeing, for example, how unrealistic ideas and expectations were in the Széll Kálmán plan compared to the current state. How did we stand with regard to public debt? When the government took office, was Hungary's debt-to-GDP ratio around 82 percent at the end of the first quarter of 2010? 82 percent? And, ladies and gentlemen, how much now? It's over 85 percent. For four years, we've heard nothing but a decline in government debt, but that's not what math shows. Math shows that government debt has increased from 82 to 85 percent, that it has not been reduced, and here it is worth mentioning that this was done in a way that the government has been zealously engaged. The Széll Kálmán plan is worth looking at, and I did it. For this year, public debt should be between 65 and 70 per cent of GDP, instead exceeding 85 per cent. When we speak to the Prime Minister here in Parliament? I would have preferred the Prime Minister to come to the debate on the budget closing, as this is a very important bill for the country. [[András Tállai: He has always been here for the past 24 years! Always!]] Then the Prime Minister always says that, indeed, we will reduce and believe him that by the end of the year, the government debt will be reduced to different dates. Unfortunately, government debt increased over a four-year period. It is worth looking at how this increase in public debt has taken place. Last year was also about the fact that the private pension fund assets previously nationalized by force, which amounted to HUF 3000 billion, were burned by the government on the altar of debt reduction. This resulted in a reduction in public debt and, despite this, the overall government debt did not decrease but increased. What is 3000 billion forints? Ladies and gentlemen, 10% of Hungarian GDP. Only forced private pension fund assets alone should have been enough to reduce the Hungarian government debt by 10 percent of GDP. Instead, the government debt did not decrease, but increased. Government communication, which states the opposite, is untrue; it is not based on factual economic data. It is also worth seeing how the international investor environment has developed in recent years. The government is constantly portraying that there are huge problems all over the world, and Hungary is doing well. Now, in the municipal election campaign, the country was full of the upper arrows of the government's success propaganda on the billboards, and it is worth checking out how this international environment was developed compared to Hungary. Fed, the central bank of the United States of America, has announced a major economic recovery programme. He continued: $80 billion was pumped into the economy by the Americans. Of course, they could do this by spreading the currency of the United States of America, the dollar, as the world's most popular reserve currency, and the inflation reported by the issue of dollars. Whether you like it or not, everyone who trades in dollars kept their savings in dollars will pay for the US budget deficit. This was then reduced to $55 million a month later. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs says no.]] Congressman Lajos Szűcs doesn't understand why this is happening, but I'll tell you afterwards, I'll reassure the congressman. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] In any case, there is no doubt that a fiscal stimulus such as that carried out in the United States of America has a positive impact on emerging markets such as Hungary, according to all moderate economists. I mean, does that undermine central bank interest in the United States, and the yield premium that you have to pay? in emerging markets such as Hungary? in the premium premium premium price of public debt, it is increasingly decreasing and lower returns can be achieved. Hungary was able to profit a lot from this, so the overall investor environment was particularly positive for Hungary thanks to the US central bank stimulus, although, by the way, the government says the opposite: the situation has deteriorated everywhere, the international situation has been very bad, but we have done well. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not true in a noble simplicity. It is also worth seeing where there was a economic activity in the Hungarian economy last year, which sectors did well. The Hungarian economic growth, which is not in Hungarian hands, is not Hungarian economic potential, and on the performance of which the opinion of the State Audit Office also noted that the GDP contribution of these companies is significant within the Hungarian economy, but in spite of the large increase in GDP in Hungary, the increase in employment is very low. Noble simplicity because these companies employ so few people in addition to increased production that it is virtually non-measurable. We will certainly also include other data on employment growth, but in any case it is a fact: it is a risk for Hungary to base our economic growth only on foreign companies. [[12.10]] It is also worth looking at what percentage of GDP the budget takes every year, looking at these trends in the shorter term and in the longer term. Between 2000 and 2004, on average, the budget lost 43.2 percent of GDP, which increased to 45.6% by 2010; compared to 2010 this increase became 47.6 percent last year. And let's think about what's happening in Hungary. ! Is that what the government was talking about? Even when you were in opposition? That this Hungarian withdrawal level is too high would have to be reduced. In 2010, when György Matolcsy came to the Economic Committee for his first hearing, he also argued that there was too much withdrawal and that the government would drastically reduce it. Ladies and gentlemen. Here are the figures: in 2010, the budget took 45.6 percent of GDP, and last year it was 47,6 percent. There is a steady increase in withdrawal rates in Hungary. It is worth checking out how much our neighbors can farm. In Slovakia, 38.7 percent of GDP is withdrawn, in Poland 41.9 percent, in the Czech Republic 42.4 percent, compared to 47.6 percent in Hungary. It's a very high figure in this region, so? I'll add it to that? It is also extremely high in international comparison. It is worth looking at what has happened in sectors, education and health that ensure the re-production of labour. Prior to 2010, Fidesz politicians expressed from opposition that education and health are regarded as strategic sectors, that they want to support in particular, and that they want to provide additional budgetary resources, because socialist governments have underfunded these two sectors to such an extent that it is already a threat to life in the health sector and a significant reduction in the quality of education. It is also worth looking at what happened here: education expenditure accounted for 11,6 percent of GDP in 2010 and fell to 10.2 percent in 2013. The question is, does he want a knowledge society? build the Orbán government to reduce the budget expenditure on education. Let's be honest, it's gonna be hard. All of a sudden, one-third of the register of higher education is taken away by the government overnight. A multitude of educated heads, ladies and gentlemen? ! How will the withdrawal of the educated heads produce a great deal for the country? These are dramatic issues, which the government coalition must face. You've broken your own promise to the electorate, and you're doing this country a bad thing. Health care is a re-production sector, because it helps to keep the workforce active and able to work as much as possible? How did the rate of budget expenditure turn out? In 2010, we spent 9.1 percent of GDP on health expenditure, with only 8.7 percent in 2013. The proportion of expenditure has decreased here, even though the Orbán government has promised exactly the opposite. All we need to think about is price support for drugs, drastic cuts, virtually halving the price support for drugs. And, indeed, it is worth thinking, when the government talks about a pension increase on one side, pension increases actually happen, pension really preserves its real value, while on the other hand, money is taken out of health care, spending is reduced, and the patient pays more and more. What the government gives with one hand, it takes with the other hand double. And what is the cost of human life, we will pay for it in this way, by reducing budget expenditure within health care? It's dramatic. If you think about it, talk to your relatives, who are placed in various public hospitals, often take the bandages, the medicine themselves. Are we in such a dramatic situation, and yet expenditure in health care is falling? They're dropping. It is worth looking at how the use and drawdown of EU funds developed last year. If we compare the 2012 drawdown of EU funds, can you see that you spent nearly HUF 500 billion more of EU funds this year? You mean last year? the government. So this was a significant increase. If I look at it from the year 2010, the increase is nearly HUF 1000 billion. These amounts will always increase towards the end of the EU development cycle. This was the end of the EU development cycle, and these amounts also increased significantly in Hungary. This contributes significantly to economic growth. However, the question is how Hungary used these EU funds. If we look at the percentage of the EU's resources to boost the competitiveness of the economy, we can see that only 15.4 percent is being used to maintain and increase competitiveness in Hungary. This also typically flows into the manufacturing and service sector dominated by foreign companies, not to Hungarian businesses, and a significant part of this money costs various infrastructure investments that serve no other purpose than to develop the infrastructure necessary for the operation of the capital here in Hungary. About the same as when the British colonial empire built a road in India. It was not built to make it easier for the Indians, but to make the crops that were produced in the colony easier to deliver from the colony. This is why the roads and railways are currently being built in Hungary, so let's just think about the V0 ring: the government will take out a loan to build this railway ring for freight traffic for HUF 360 billion. This HUF 360 billion is charged to taxpayers, but it is important to ask where the Hungarian industrial companies are, which are pouring out the bulk of many tons of production. These must be transported, or we will build the infrastructure with the Hungarian taxpayers' money for foreign companies established here. I'm afraid that's what this is about. We can see the same with EU funds. It is also worth looking at how the budget's tax revenues have evolved. The Orbán government campaigned in opposition and campaigned to the government by reducing the tax-related expenditure of the budget, because the Hungarian people are overtaxed. It is worth looking at the 2013 budget: the budget's tax revenues increased by 6.1 percent. And with that? Now, is that where the nail comes out of the bag? actual tax revenues were HUF 534 billion lower than the government expected. Why would that happen? Every time the various tax laws were entered into the Economic Committee, or were discussed here in plenary in this House, we asked the representative of the Government to say where the impact studies showing that these new taxes would actually be collected. In one such case, we did not encounter impact assessments, although it would otherwise have been mandatory to do so. It is worth looking at these data. With a small company tax, HUF 120 billion was less invested in the budget than the government had planned. With HUF 45.9 billion from taxpayers; the government took less money than it wanted from the supposedly taxed energy sector by HUF 26 billion. 26 billion forints, ladies and gentlemen, plenty! [[12.20]] The credit institution's allowance, that's what's burdening the banks, came in 20 billion forints less than the government's plan. Shouldn't the government consider why banks tax less than we wanted to collect from them? You might want to take a closer look at this. If you look at the increase in the burden on the population, here's the checker known as the transaction fee, also known to the public. How did this tax start? It had an original rate of 1 000, increased to 3 000, and over the course of last year, the government doubled the amount of 3 000 to 6 000, thus increasing the rate of tax to a significant extent. What was government communication besides this tax? The fact that they will tax the non-popular credit institutions sector, the evil banks in Hungary, will collect these funds from them, because the Orbán government does not wish to go on the path of austerity. What happened? The government has thrown this tax on credit institutions, we have immediately contested, better Members, that if the tax is imposed in this way, the banks will transfer it to the general public without obstacles, because there is nothing against them, there is no law, there is no law to carry this ban through. What did the banks do? In their newsletters and invoice letters of December before last year, people have already been informed that the transaction costs will increase, which must be paid for the bank accounts, have been unscrupulous, and they have paid the transaction fees imposed on the banks with the Hungarian population at the same time. Who, then, is the real burden of these costs? The banking sector certainly did not, as it passed these burdens on to the Hungarian population. So what's going on? Is that what the government's campaigning with? And unfortunately, you can make a lot of people feel dizzy because they can't see through? That he's taxing the banks, he's collecting a lot of money from them, but he's just interfering with the banks, and in fact, the population is the real burden of these burdens. Moreover, Jobbik has developed several proposals in order not to pass on or tax the population in this way, and on each occasion the Government has unfortunately rejected these proposals. The situation is similar with the telecom tax, and in this case, the tax burden on businesses increased by 1.5 times, the telecom tax increased for them, and the official communication, of course, is that foreign telecommunications companies are taxed by the government, in fact the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises pay the charges, the money goes to the service provider and the government collects it from the service provider. It's worth checking out the state's groceries. Before 2010, very little, virtually nothing was known about the economic sectors in which the government would like to gain ground and what tools it would use in these sectors. I would have liked to have read in the 2010 Fidesz election programme about how they would want greater public involvement in the energy sector. There was virtually nothing to know about this, and it missed out on the nationalisation of private pension funds, for example, and many extremely important economic steps. It was worth looking at what happened: MOL shares were purchased by the government for HUF 500 billion, while we know virtually nothing about its strategic plans for MOL. Last year it was about E.ON gas companies being bought back by the government, based on expert valuations for nearly HUF 200 billion higher than these investments were actually worth. When we asked the government to explain why they paid so much money for these E.ON-NG companies, we didn't get an explanation. When, as vice-president of the Economic Commission, I initiated a meeting of the Economic Committee to find out whether this sales transaction was proportionate or not in the interest of Hungarian taxpayers, or whether these E.ON papers were above the price, the government rejected our request and could not convene the Economic Committee without the government's support. What could be done? I made a criminal report in this case, because I saw that if economic experts thought these natural gas companies were worth less, then the government could not pay 200 billion for these companies without criminal consequences. This complaint was also rejected by the investigating authority, no proceedings were initiated. Ladies and gentlemen. In this case, I have exhausted all the legislative options available within the parliamentary framework that could be achieved. I can't get the government to account because it owns two thirds, it's arrogantly sitting on the money, and it's spending taxpayers' money refusing to account for it; unfortunately, that's the case. It is worth looking at the development of employment in this area. Our employment rate? And I'm not talking about the unemployment rate, which is cosmeticated in a number of ways? Our employment rate with Cyprus in a dead race? For a very long time? in the OECD countries, the lowest, extremely few people work in Hungary, below 60 percent, if the public employment that the government has grounded is not counted here, and it is worth looking at one or two age groups that are particularly involved in this. A quarter of young people under the age of 24 do not currently have a job in Hungary, and if you look at older people, people aged 55-64, 38,5 percent have only jobs. This means that four out of ten people older than 55 years of age, but less than 64 years of age, can get a job. It's tragically bad. You can't say that the boom is on and how well the country looks, and look at it, and we're roaring. Only four out of ten people have jobs, and the situation is extremely bad. If we look at what the government has done to increase employment, we are primarily confronted with slogans, not with actual economic measures. The single-key tax system introduced by the government has proven to have no employment incentive effect, no more jobs. But what happened to the one-key tax system? With the highest income, 10 percent of employees received more than HUF 500 billion from the budget in the form of tax relief, while the tax burden on people with the lowest incomes increased significantly, and this increase in the tax burden was one of the reasons why emigration from Hungary accelerated and the country lost 500 thousand people. Jobbik is a national party that will speak on all such matters in the future, and, of course, later in the debate, we will deal with other budgetary issues even further. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-14-30	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to our next speaker, allow me to welcome my guests from Hajdú-Bihar County, the Sarret area, from Sárrétudvari, who are watching our meeting from the gallery today. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-14-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I must start by saying that Hungarian society paid a high price for the government's 2013 budget, because this budget was not about us Hungarian people. It was not about how there would be stable jobs, how there would be healthy and skilled workers in this country, how we would manage everyday life, but about how to pull more skin off people and how to move more public money into private pockets behind the government. [[12.30]] With nearly 150 amendments, the LMP would have carried out a total restructuring of HUF 800 billion in the 2013 budget. No amendment proposed by opposition or social partners, such as trade unions, was supported by the competent pro-government committee of Parliament. Hungary's poverty continued with the 2013 budget. The social divide continued, a quarter of young people are thinking about emigration, and small and medium-sized enterprises have given up their investment plans. The lowest lending and investment activity in Hungary is the regional comparison. While the tax burden has increased, the performance of the economy and the number of people employed in the competitive sector do not exceed the pre-crisis level. The government's 2013 budget shows that it has spent the money with two hands for its kind purposes, such as stadiums and other prestige investments, while it has not for one minute dealt with how the lower and middle classes, the victim of austerity over recent years, will recover. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The 2013 budget was based on cuts in recent years. It included the measures taken by all three Matolcsy packages, all previous tax increases and unfair tax changes, double the transaction fee, high VAT in international comparison, and even 40 different taxes, the abolition of the tax credit. 2013 was the year of tax maximization. They've never collected as much tax in Hungary as they did last year. Moreover, social and welfare expenditures have been radically cut. In recent years, some HUF 200 billion has been withdrawn from education and housing subsidies have been further reduced. Meanwhile, he spent billions more on government propaganda. Hungary has become a place where municipalities and Hungarian families have reached the limit of their ability to carry loads and cannot bear additional burdens. The government's 2013 budget is largely responsible for the dramatic rise in income gap between the rich and the poor in Hungary over the past four years. While the income of the upper tenths increased by 10 percent, the income of the lower layers decreased even more. The poor are growing, and the poor are getting poorer. Today, two thirds of the population live under poor financial conditions. The 2013 budget has made it extremely difficult to make a living in Hungary. With the austerity and the single-key tax, the increase in social differences accelerated by increasing the VAT rate to a very high level in the international comparison. People keep getting poorer, 40 percent living below the minimum living. The average Hungarian earns only 40 percent of the EU average in one month, while prices stand at 83 percent of the EU average. This is a serious process that is already undermining the performance of the Hungarian economy in the short term. The constant decline in domestic demand, the simply lack of money for people, is a significant barrier to economic recovery and employment growth. Small and medium-sized enterprises producing on-site services on the domestic market are simply not worth investing in and using extra labour. The successive governments have done little to ensure that the income of the majority of Hungarians is substantially increased, although this is in many respects a key factor in boosting the Hungarian economy. The LMP cannot support the closure of the 2013 budget, which continued the policy of social austerity and the gradual reduction of welfare functions. Since 2010, the Orbán government has made more than HUF 2600 billion in austerity, typically in the fields of education, social and health. The 2013 budget was a cut of 260 thousand forints for all Hungarian citizens, and it undermined Hungary's future in the long term. The government sees welfare expenses as luxury, a waste that only the rich can afford, and without the burden of which the economy will run. Well, it's kind of a reverse. Prosperity spending prevents people from maintaining their abilities in crisis situations and their human capital in a nasty way. At social level, it is much more expensive to let people, communities or public services become poor, miserable and degraded. After degradation, restoration is much more expensive or even impossible than to protect them from it. The policy of austerity, in addition to being inhuman, is therefore totally wrong. It destroys the foundations on which a socio-economic system is built. The government set the education system on a landing path, and in 2013 it drew another ten billion from higher education. The share of educational expenditure has fallen to a historic low. Government interventions affecting the education system, the permanent withdrawal of funds, are unacceptable to the LMP, as this will take away the potential for social ascent from young people. Today, in Hungary, 72 percent of the students' learning outcomes are determined by which part of the country they went to school. The same figure in Finland is 8 percent. Compared to this, there is no evidence of measures to increase equal opportunities for education and to promote young people's talent in the budget last year. In fact, even the real value of the child's food support has decreased; today, only one fifth of those in need receive a summer meal. As in previous years, one of the major losers of the 2013 budget was the social sector. The Hungarian state is giving less and less help to break out of their position, including hundreds of thousands of women and mothers. In 2013, the real value of subsidies continued to decline, the basic means of combating poverty, such as family allowances, children and children, are becoming less and less valuable. They have frozen housing support, the public health care framework, state support for institutions of the elderly, the disabled and the homeless. Social benefits responding to labour market situations were half as much as they were four years ago. The patients were also saved 8-10 billion on invalids. The budget also gave up support for a number of civil society organisations and foundations for social purposes. We still do not see the budgetary commitments that would show that the government would finally address the problems of people living in housing poverty. In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of young people who cannot move away from their parents, a noticeably fewer 35 - year - olds have their own apartments and houses than they did a few years ago. Like social policy, youth policy has been a victim of years of ongoing austerity. In the local government sector, it is estimated that the state will take 100-150 billion forints more than would have been justified. [[12.40]] The 2013 budget was a further step towards eliminating the essence and basic resources of the local government. In 2013, 8 percent of the remaining property and 60 percent of the vehicle tax were lost. We also find it particularly problematic that no impact assessments and mature concepts have been carried out on the system of task financing, so it is feared that instead of professional rationality, central budgetary constraints are decisive. The majority of municipal and state-owned utilities have suffered significant losses over the last two years, which they have not managed to manage. Typically, they lived up to their reserves, postponed their investments, and in many cases local authorities had to reach into their pockets and make up for losses. As a result of the government's money pump, government government budget support decreased by 38 percent in 2013 and was therefore constantly trying to obtain money, in many cases by borrowing. This situation is cumulative in Budapest, because the government openly undertakes to withdraw funds from the capital, not even giving money for the renewal of the life-threatening metro line 3. If we look at the loss suffered by Hungarian society, we can see that Hungary's current history has never spent so little on health and education in terms of GDP. Meanwhile, the government spent billions more on propaganda and spent more than ever on bureaucracy, economic expansion of the government. These are painful numbers, and they show that the Fidesz government is more important today, fixing its position of power today than the future of the country than investing in the future of the country. If we ask the Prime Minister of our country what the government should build from the taxes introduced in the plus, we can guess the answer: stadium. In 2013, the government could think of nothing but stadium construction. But if this money was spent on education, it would actually pay off every single forint in seven years. With educated people, we could produce high added value products and provide services. So the main challenge is not only whether we can keep the budget low or whether the country is able to repay its debt, but also how, in what way and how we are able to improve, and when we can make progress in terms of economic development, productivity and wages. Unfortunately, last year has passed by not seeing anything encouraging that could move investments in Hungary stable and surely from the extremely low level to which it has sunk in recent years. To sum up, it is not true that Hungary is performing better today, at most some governments are doing well for close entrepreneurs. 80% of people won nothing with a single-key tax, the consumption of households decreased, and small and medium-sized enterprises were often given only one compulsory cash register from the government. Employment figures are only improved by public work and no meaningful job creation has been achieved. The biggest tragedy of recent years' economic and social policy is the unprecedented income gap between upper and lower income levels. A third of the country lives in extreme poverty. Hungary's fairy tale of Matolcsy's national capital class became a nightmare, an oligarchy system. The price of bad governance is paid by workers with an average of less than EUR 500 per month. The government's ambitions have failed. The fight against sovereign debt is a failure. Employment has substantially increased only in the context of public work. We are lagging behind in terms of economic growth with regard to the countries in the region. No investments. The government is patching budget holes with a continuous tax increase. There's a steady outflow of capital from the country, rising offshore tax evasion. For credit rating agencies, Hungary is still included in the bóvli category. The euro exchange rate and public debt are skyrocketing and we are sliding down in our region. In 2013, the government debt-to-GDP ratio decreased only to a microscopic extent, from 79,8 per cent to 79,2 per cent, despite the cosmetics of statistics. In the past, the government designed this indicator below 70 percent, which has now slipped above 85 percent. There are a number of reasons for this, ranging from taking on too many loans to draining foreign reserves, to forint weakening due to lack of credibility. There were also promises that money from the withdrawal of private pension assets of HUF 2900 billion would reduce public debt. As long as the euro exchange rate is persistently above HUF 300 and economic growth does not start, public debt will hardly decrease significantly. With regard to the budget deficit, I would like to remind you that the pledging of private pension funds will improve the balance by 1.4 percent a year, but this will mean the recovery of the future. We are not saving you for a pension, it improves the balance, while overall the country's farming is deteriorating. It was recently reported that the new EU statistical methodology also required the re-accounting of the pension assets received by the State. For this reason, the large budget surplus of three years ago turned into a significant, 5.6 minus. In 2013, the burden on small businesses continued to increase. Double the transaction fee and telecommunications tax and 36 different taxes mean a great deal of extra burden for businesses. In addition to the mandatory cash exchange, Hungarian small businesses received almost nothing. To date, 1800 billion EU development funds have not been paid to beneficiaries. In 2013, around 90 per cent of the 2008 level, the value of all major indicators varied in terms of number of SMEs, employment and added value. This meant the loss of 32.5 thousand jobs in the period 2010-2013. We can also read more and more about the importance of startup businesses, i.e. young companies that promise innovative, dynamic and explosive growth. A recent OECD study shows that, in recent years, large job creators have not been the multinationals supported in several countries, but businesses under the age of five. Each year, even during the most difficult period of the crisis, the number of employees was increased, while companies older than five years of age overall were downgraded. That is, with all our strength, we should support new, knowledge-based innovative small businesses that can absorb the masses that have become unemployed during the crisis and keep young people at home. The Prime Minister should also take a look at these researches before visiting a community-based society and large-scale industrialisation for Hungary's future. The enforcement of aggressive central will and lobbying continued in 2013, along which the income concentration of the clientship became even stronger. [[12.50]] It is becoming more and more common with political relations, interference by those with influence in economic life, market ownership through state resources. When the government is able to cross the rules of the game at any moment with a pen stroke, it can change the basic conditions of the operation of the market segment, then a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise may rightly think that it is unnecessary to plan and invest too risky here. Furthermore, a large Hungarian company can rightly think that it would rather transfer its seat to Luxembourg, as it is more worth the tax. The uncertainty of private investment, the depreciation of Hungary as an investment destination, and the decline in legal certainty, represent a course of development for the country which, at best, does not help to catch up with Western Europe. To sum up, we've had another year thrown out. The investment volume of the Hungarian national economy in 2013 is practically at the level of 2001-2002, and neither the population nor the businesses have any reserves. In addition to the low purchasing power, lack of money and high state withdrawal, the reason for the lack of investment is basic mistrust, poor laws and all-equipped government policy. So it is no wonder that we are also failing in the fight for a million new jobs. György Matolcsy, as Minister of National Economy, visited a 100,000-person job expansion among small and medium-sized enterprises last year. Compared to this, labour market absorption has deteriorated, no new jobs have been created with lack of investment, despite state measures, the number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises is stagnating. There was no job creation in Hungary in 2013. You are magical with statistics, but the facts show that if we take public employment and the Hungarians in London out of this set, the number of jobs did not actually increase, but vice versa. This is also likely due to the fact that the government has planned the 2013 budget in such a way that it has not given a say to employees or social partners. However, they did not ask for anything big, just for the government to negotiate with the employees, establish a crisis fund to deal with mass redundancies, facilitate access to work for people with disabilities, increase OSH measures, tax exemptions of HUF 12 500 per month for eating allowances and holiday allowances. Nor does the new labour code help to increase employment, making redundancies easier, cheaper and faster. The job protection action plan was only good to cover the government's economic policy failure, that without state support the employment situation in Hungary is unsustainable. Several times today and yesterday, community service is an additional act. Public work can be seen as a new job, but it is actually a special form of unemployment. Public work can, of course, be an investment in the future when these people or their children are later returned to the world of work, but public work is currently not a productive factor. Plus, he's keeping people who do community service in poverty. Because at best, any of my fellow Members should try to make a living from 60,000 forints a month, to heat in winter, to eat, to clothe and to raise children. In 2013, the government did not spend one billion forints to support residential energy modernisation. Instead of investing in energy saving in social and family homes, the government supports the atomic lobby and continues the practice of tricking with CO2 quota revenues, which could be the main source of missing residential energy efficiency programmes. Just 21 months ago, the government launched its policy campaign known as the reduction of rent, which is now out of breath. The reduction of costs put operators in a position to fail to comply with technological requirements. One of the most plastic examples of this is the pollution found in the landfill in Cico, where waste water is discharged into the pond without cleaning. With the nationalisation of loss-driven utilities, the government is on the one hand bringing losses to citizens' necks, on the other hand, offering oily business opportunities to the oligarchs and offshore companies behind the government, as we have seen before in the energy sector. I must also refer to the related report of the State Audit Office. Major deficiencies in the management of state assets have been identified, not for the first time. The Hungarian National Asset Management and the National Land Fund are under way in the course of financial accounts and public procurement. The SAO revealed significant errors that it once again endorsed its report on the management of the National Land Fund in 2013. The other is the national inventory that we're going to rub under the government's nose until it's ready. 'Cause how can we trust the state to handle the common wealth it has with the care of a good host until we know how much that is? In 2013, there was no public-credit inventory of state assets held directly or indirectly. It's a omission that may not be accidental on the part of the political elite. After all, in a country where the wealth of the state and the management of public funds are inaccessible, it is much easier to mash public funds, move taxpayers' money into private pockets, open the way to corruption. As long as there's no inventory of assets, we can't talk about credible government management. In conclusion, the 2013 budget was another blow for the Hungarian people, which resulted in the acceleration of the lower and middle class slippage. The budget deficit has been kept at a level, but the population has paid a terrible price for it. The country has continued to be poor, the public debt has broken records, and public money continues to flow out of the country unhindered. Increasing government spending is financed by reducing social benefits. The closure of the 2013 budget is forced to be rejected by LMP, as with this budget the government side forced the country's budget for deteriorating quality of life. A new direction is needed in Hungary. Hungary could do better with an alternative economic policy. For this reason, last autumn we asked the government to withdraw the draft budget for 2013 and to submit a radically different budget, taking into account the proposals of the social partners, economic operators and the opposition. He didn't. Everyone can see the results. In order to halt further poverty in the country, the LMP strongly calls on the government to pay particular attention to the involvement of social partners, economic operators and the opposition in the planning of next year's budget. Not just the government, but the country. Thank you for your attention. [[István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai applaud.]]
u2014-10-14-32	Welcome, fellow Members. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. According to the decision-making rules, the first independent representative to apply may now speak in 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, who was the first independent to apply.
u2014-10-14-33	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The discharge law on the government's 2013 budget and the State Court's report on it are a victory report. This means that the Hungarian economy is shiny and flashing. According to the government, 2013 was a year of recovery. I think this report, both of which lie before us, is depressing and government camouflage. A means of profound concealment of reality is both. The previous Orbán government set itself three objectives for the economy in 2010. On the one hand, keeping the budget deficit in check, launching economic growth and, of course, implementing the radical vision of social policy that we all know, the complete transformation of income distribution. [[13.00]] The past years have been characterised by the government's attempts to achieve these three goals, which are in serious contradiction with each other, with obvious failure. It is impossible to achieve goals that contradict each other so much. Fiscal discipline cannot succeed if the economy is stimulated. It is not possible to boost consumption by redirecting income towards social groups that save it rather than spend it. And we can't succeed in creating jobs if we're inconvenient to investors with a completely unpredictable tax system. The government scheduled the start-up of growth among these objectives for its 2013 campaign. The 2013 final report before us demonstrates the full contradiction of the economic policy in Orbán and, as a result, its devastating effect. I would like to read three things from the bogus report to the accounts. First of all, there was no growth change in Hungary in 2013. The stagnation of the economy was only achieved by temporary campaign measures by the government. Secondly, maintaining a proud budget balance, maintaining a 3 percent deficit, was only possible if national competitiveness was severely weakened. Hungary's long-term growth potential has hopelessly deteriorated. In 2013, there was extremely irresponsible spending, basically with other people's money. Thirdly, Fidesz's fiscal policy sheds light on the reality behind the government's public social policy objectives. In 2013, the richness of long - leashed Fidesz entrepreneurs continued to grow, while the dramatic split-up of society and the further slip-down of the middle class continued. Let us first examine the growth goal. At the end of 2013, the Fidesz Propaganda began to talk about a turnaround in order to cover the catastrophic performance of the entire cycle. However, the Hungarian economy was in a recession except for its electoral hair, and at best it stagnated. In order to make Fidesz forget the obvious truth of the break-off as it approaches the elections, it boosted growth with short-term, one-time, unsustainable state incentives. After Hungary's creditors and the European Union no longer allowed the Fidesz government to release the budget deficit, the government used other but equally destructive means. First of all, the government has imposed penalty taxes on energy companies, banks, telecom companies. The discriminatory features have seriously damaged investor confidence, increased production costs, which have had a disastrous effect on growth and seriously undermined the chances of future growth. The critically low share of private investment is particularly alarming. The majority of today's investments were created by the State, which cannot generate real growth. The government also used the National Bank to boost apparent growth. The central bank losing its independence from the government has become a means of artificial pumping growth. At the same time, György Matolcsy's loose monetary policy, the continuous interest rate cuts have also reduced the forint. The Hungarian people living on the salary, the Hungarian people living on the forint, are worth less and less today, but the repayments of foreign exchange taxpayers are constantly increasing. In fact, in 2013 all indicators that would actually be able to support a positive economic turnaround, especially the potential growth rate of economic growth, remain persistently low in Hungary; according to the report published by the European Commission at the end of last year, the lowest in the region, 1.5-2 percent below all other competitors. In terms of long-term GDP growth figures, we also see that the long-term growth trend of the Hungarian economy remains below the regional average. This means that we are obviously in a break from our environment. Therefore, there was no growth turnaround in 2013. The growth potential of the Hungarian economy is low and is increasingly lagging behind our competitors. The Hungarian economy was fed only by the cord of the European Union. However, this is insufficient to ensure catch-up. The second is whether the budgetary balance in the fake report has actually been achieved. Well, we can say that the government managed to achieve the 3-percent deficit target on paper. However, this cost a great deal. Above all, the fact that public debt remains extremely high in Hungary. The government's struggle against debt was a spectacular and embarrassing failure. In recent years, even with 3,000 billion private pension fund savings, public debt has not been put on a downward path. Over the past few years, money has disappeared in debt struggles, while public debt is today as high as it was in 2010 or 1990, when Hungary was really in a very bad state. What an amazing waste this is! We are also very concerned about the accounting trick that the Ministry of Economy will use this year to meet the debt reduction target set in the basic law for a few new days. Another serious problem is that in order to achieve the deficit target, the government has introduced unpredictable, untraceable, fire-fighting-like economic policy measures. As a result, Hungary's competitiveness has fallen. The decline in international indicators, such as the World Economic Forum's competitiveness ranking, is also a spectacular indicator of how rapid changes in rules and unpredictable taxes have damaged the chances of growth in Hungary. Who would want to invest in a country where nearly 40 new taxes are introduced in three years? Only in 2013, the government introduced five new taxes, the yellow check tax, accident tax, utility tax, kata, kiva, etc. Who cares about a country where the only way to remain a large company is to be handcuffed to government representatives for a strategic agreement, for exceptions. Who cares about a country where banks, small businesses and large businesses are on a leash? It is also a very serious problem that real jobs in the private sector have not been created in Hungary at all. Even though the tax on labour has been reduced, the balance of the budget has been replaced by the imposition of the already mentioned indirect costs by the government. This has had the effect of reducing investment, which could have created new jobs, above all, in the private sector. Of course, many jobs have been created in the public works market in London or Munich. To sum up, we can say that in order to keep the budget deficit in hand, although it is an undisputed fact that the adjustment is largely based on the revenue side and, above all, on temporary special taxes, there are no institutional safeguards for long-term sustainability. The third topic is the budget as a mirror; the budget and the closing accounts, as appropriate, clearly show what kind of society the government is building. In this mirror, two dramatic processes became visible during 2013. First of all, one started with the tragic scandal. The tramp scandal showed the Hungarian government the clear intention of settling into the small, then growing players and territories of the Hungarian economy. The essence of the process is that the market economy is openly replaced by an addictive system, and today Fidesz-apparatchiks decide who can be successful and who can not in Hungary instead of fair competition. The year 2013 began with the acquisition of the tramps, and continued with the acquisition of the land, energy and savings banks. Finally, the 2013 budget year also showed how Hungarian society is breaking up from the point of view of living. The direction of income distribution is clear and clear: it takes away from the poor and gives to those who become even richer. [[13.10]] In addition to the obvious counterproductive economic effects, there are also serious social policy impacts. These dramatic consequences can first of all be shown by the fact that the children of the middle class have lost their chance in Hungary to move forward and to have a better, safer life in the future. Today in Hungary, who starts from the bottom, is Hungarian at the bottom. Fidesz's school system, the school of education, is increasingly crowding children into opportunities from home or even inopportunities. Underfunding and deleveraging of the school system and rejection of the importance of learning are central to the Fidesz society. It is not appropriate for Hungarian children to be included in the XXI. They can learn the skills of the century and the ability to learn, which would enable them to adapt and re-learn throughout their lives, so that they can always get a job. Instead, early school leaving is growing in Hungary, which is a direct road to the prospect of poverty. Dear fellow Members, The 2013 accounts showed us that there was no real growth in 2013, only the steroid pumping of the economy temporarily masked the burning lack of growth. Maintaining a proud budget balance has only been possible by seriously sacrificing national competitiveness, and Hungary's long-term growth prospects have seriously and substantially deteriorated. Finally, it was found once again that in 2013, the enrichment of long - leashed Fidesz entrepreneurs continued to grow, while the disintegration of society and the inextricable slippage of the middle class took place in front of our eyes. It is very clear from the accounts that the government is more confident in direct state intervention, nationalisation, centralisation, central price regulation and acute, one-off, fire-fighting handling of problems than in market processes. And we are convinced that lasting prosperity and development can only be achieved if we look ahead, think in perspectives, think in lasting institution building and in long-term regulations, together with those on the market. I cannot accept either the closing act or the State Audit Office report. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-34	Dear Parliament, According to the decision-making rule, the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the interests of nationalities can now speak in 15 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, who speaks about the pulpit.
u2014-10-14-35	Mr President, Mr President of the SAO, Dear House, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, to welcome you on the occasion of the first general debate on a bill in the Hungarian Parliament? as a spokesperson requested by the nationality committee? I can express our committee's opinion. We consider it important for the minority committee to be natural in the Hungarian Parliament as soon as possible that representatives of Hungarian ethnicities speak in the language of their nationality, but I will now do the rest of my contribution in Hungarian, for the sake of clarity. The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013 We are in a difficult and easy situation at the same time in the course of the opinion of the discharge. On the one hand, in a difficult situation, because this comment was supposed to take place here in Parliament almost 20 years ago for the first time, so that almost two decades of failure should be eliminated as soon as possible in all aspects. On the other hand, the easy situation is caused by the fact that, unfortunately, we Hungarian ethnicities had little to do with the establishment of the 2013 Finance Act, so that we can now give an honest opinion on its implementation without any responsibility. I would like to start with the support of civil society organisations and national minority organisations, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions and ethnic identity. Unfortunately, there are not many positives in this area. The operating support of national minority NGOs was HUF 110 million per year in 2013, which has not increased since 2002? In 2001, it was 105 million forints. Inflation was close to 60 per cent during this period, so this aid is worth at least that much less today. The restoration of the real value of the aid should be at least the responsibility of the 2015 budget at the level of 2002. Only a fraction of the amount of funding allocated to support the programme of minority civil society organisations is covered. The 2013-14 applications to the Human Resources Support Manager show that about a quarter of the legitimate subsidies requested for both operating grants and cultural programmes could only be judged because of a lack of resources. The funding for ethnic student camps is even more scarce. As a concrete example, only the German tender request was nearly HUF 51 million, in itself 1.7 times the total amount of HUF 30 million granted to 13 nationalities. Finally, HUF 7.5 million could be allocated to the German applications, i.e. only 15% of the requested amount. This unworthy situation should also be substantially improved in the planning of the 2015 budget. The nationality committee will make concrete proposals. At the same time, is it welcome that Roma have named subsidies, scholarships, various cultural grants? In fact, in 2013 was 150 million HUF a one-time grant for the renovation and operating support of the Lungo Drom headquarters? Because the minority committee also considers it important to integrate the Roma community as quickly and as widely as possible. The other major area? And the ethnic committee welcomes you and thanks you? That the intergovernmental ethnic groups through mixed committees have more ethnic communities? Croatian, Slovenian, Slovak? did you receive specific support in 2013? See Volume 5 page 3007-3008. On the basis of the recommendations adopted and maintained at the 13th meeting of the Hungarian-Slovénian Minority Committee and the relevant government decision, the renovation and expansion of the Bilingual Primary School and Kindergarten in Apátistvánfalva, the operating costs of the Association of Slovenians in Hungary were first supported in 2013. On the basis of the recommendations adopted and maintained at the 11th meeting of the Hungarian-Slovak Minority Committee and the government decision, the investment of the schools in Tátaljaújhely and Pécsaba was supported, the support of the National Slovak Municipality's scholarship system, and the support of the operation of the Slovak centre in Pilisszentkereszt. On the basis of recommendations and government decisions adopted and maintained at the 12th meeting of the Hungarian-Croatia Joint Committee on Minority, the establishment of a common database of local archeological and built heritage and memorial sites, support for the maintenance of the Croatian ethnic landscape in Lakócsa, the maintenance and protection of the cemeteries of the Hungarian-Croatian national community. At the same time, we also draw the attention of the legislative and government to the fact that this option does not exist for the majority of nationalities in Hungary. We do not consider the practice of supporting priority projects of a nationality to depend on whether we have a joint intergovernmental committee of nationality with the mother country of that nationality. [[13.20]] The fact that there is a Hungarian nationality community in the home country of a particular nationality cannot be considered as a criterion for grants. Nationality public education institutions. Was the 2013 definitely the most important and clearly positive change in the year to be maintained by the national authorities? and here I stress that it is reserved not only by national, but also by regional and municipal national authorities? Support has also been significantly increased and normative in the case of ethnic public education institutions. As the outgoing chairman of the financial committee of the National Municipality of Hungary, I have faced every year in the last 12 years with the need to plan our institutions' budget appropriations with tens of millions of deficits, which we have been able to make up for more or less from tender funds, ad hoc, additional grants and own resources during the year. The positive change last year is not only important because it has improved the funding of ethnic public education institutions qualitatively, but also because it has also made the conditions for education and education legally predictable and safe. After a long time, our ethnic educators have come to know new and joyful concepts for them in the past year, they have met again, such as cafeteria or reward. I hope they don't have to quit in the future. However, this very positive and forward-looking change should be mentioned as regards only the institutions maintained by the national authorities, which account for only a few percent of the ethnic education and education institutions maintained by the KLIK and the municipality, so there is still room for improvement in this area. The next major chapter is support for national minority self-governments in the 2013 budget and allow me to cover not only the years 2013 but also the years 2008-2014 for the reasons set out in the introduction. The general support of national minority self-governments includes support for the operation of the Office, the municipal office which can only be maintained from the central budget. As the general government legislation changed, national national minority authorities became subject to budgetary management from 2008 onwards, which significantly increased operational expenditure; due to audit, internal audit, qualification requirements for economic managers, the application of integrated financial systems and others. The changes in 2012 further increased costs: the separation of municipalities and offices, the qualifications of the economic organisation, centralisation of farming, and objectively increased the Office's expenditures again. The 2014 general government and accounting changeover will permanently increase the costs of the financial administration. However, in addition to this, do national minority self-governments support the minimum between 2008 and 2010 in the last four budgetary years? At the time of the law-ordered changes? It didn't grow at all, stagnant. Finally, but not least, support for local and local minority self-governments. There has been a significant change in the system of support for local and local self-governments a few years ago by introducing a transition to tasks-related support. This? On the other hand, as a result of the fact that the overall operating aid has changed to an impossible low amount, it has been significantly difficult to use the task-based support in a targeted way because of the general operating aid and the general government commitment rules. The latter is still acceptable on its own due to the transparent use of public funds, but, in parallel with the increase in the involvement of national authorities, the reduction of the funding envelopes and the freezing of HUF 1 billion at HUF 520 million from 2010 are contrary to the growing requirement for the provision of national tasks. A third of the HUF 1 billion 520 million, i.e. HUF 506,7 million, was allocated to operating grants between 2164 municipal and 58 regional minority municipalities, and two thirds, i.e. HUF 1 billion 13,3 million, were distributed between 1766 municipal and 55 regional minority self-governments. On average, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments is HUF 221 833 gross; this is HUF 18 486 gross per month, which is HUF 14 556 net. I would just like to highlight this so that it is clear to everyone what minimum amounts we are talking about, and also this average operating aid is granted to only part of the minority self-governments of smaller settlements. It would be good for everyone to keep these figures in mind when we are about to talk about the operational support of national authorities in 2015. In summary, we can conclude from the nationality committee that, in the 2013 budget, there are still decades of delays and disproportions, in addition to several praiseable and joyful changes affecting nationalities in Hungary. Of course, most of these problems arise not from the inadequate implementation of the fiscal law, but from inadequate preparation for the nationalities in Hungary. Therefore, as a tax expert and as an auditor with a budgetary additional rating, I propose, on my part and on behalf of our committee, the adoption and approval of the discharge law. Finally, I would like to return to the idea mentioned at the outset. I would like to ask you now that, in preparing and adopting the 2015 Budget Act, which will soon be on the agenda, we have the opportunity to be responsible for fulfilling it by accepting our proposals and comments, taking into account the 2015 accounts. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-14-36	Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a 15-15-minute time frame for these. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2014-10-14-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2013 budget, the re-reporting of the facts and the summary of the last year would provide opportunities for a variety of things, and this has taken place over the last few hours on a wide range of topics, in many sectors and in many areas. For our part, we consider it important events in the past year, i.e. the economic events of 2013 with significant improvements in the lives of families, such as real wage growth or low inflation, which may have been due to the reduction of the rent, but many other things, which may have been the result of parliamentary decisions in recent years, on the basis of a government initiative. But obviously it is also true what I myself have said many times in Parliament or even in various debates, when we talked to fellow opponents about the possibilities of making a better living for Hungarian families, the conditions of everyday life in Hungary. [[13.30]] I have told myself many times, and I am telling you now that, in addition to the results of many, many of the work and efforts carried out together, there is obviously a lot of work to be done and work to be done, which we are, of course, ready for here in the Hungarian Parliament on the part of the pro-government factions. I would like to devote a good deal of what I have to say to employment policy and employment, because it has been an important objective over the past period? the past period was 2010 because at that time it was an employment low, a bad perception, a bad government perception had to end, and a new concept of government employment had to be brought to the end of the inability of Hungary to share employment rates with Malta at that time. Was it also a huge problem? Can I remind you of that? With regard to unemployment, with the data at that time, the unemployment rate of well over 10 per cent and an ever-increasing, unfortunately increasing unemployment camp, that is, with the community who do not get a job, although they want to work. That was the starting point. Since 2010, we have taken a lot of steps, and although we are obviously talking about 2013 in the current draft law and the closing report, I would remind you that starting from simplified forms of employment and continuing through, if it is possible to put it more clearly, to give targeted government subsidies to companies providing opportunities for leaping out which can then link the Hungarian economy to the world level and ultimately help Hungarian businesses to continue their value-creating activities as suppliers linked to a large company. This was also a series of measures that we have consistently taken since 2010, and we have been going on consistently, and I think that the result of this has already been in 2013 as regards employment data. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thus, employment growth from 2010 onwards has increased to a faster pace, suggesting that government measures have become increasingly effective and have been increasingly able to have a positive impact on labour market developments. You may recall that in 2013 we continued the multifaceted set of measures that we took after the completion of budgetary stabilisation, after the reduction of public debt, for targeted employment growth and targeted measures to increase the economy. The start of economic growth and public employment programmes in 2013? Shall we remind him? labour market indicators have developed more favourable than in previous years. During the period 2010-2013, the number of employees among employees increased by 155 thousand, i.e. 4.2 percent; and could we move away from the low employment rate with which? I'm gonna say it again? In a similar line with Malta, at a similar level, at almost the same level, we shared the last two points of the European employment indicators. You may also recall that a number of people here referred to public work, and for the sake of clarity, I would like to give a number of reasons for the fact that, although there is a significant participation in the growth of the number of public workers, it accounts for about a third of them? Are we talking about 58,000 people? In fact, it represents a third of the increase in employment in working age during the period under consideration. So this means, ladies and gentlemen, that public employment accounts for a third of 155 000 people's employment, a third. Obviously, it does not mean that 58,000 people were involved in public employment, which means that they had already been involved in public employment before 2010, and if these numbers are compared, then the increase in the public employment number is 58 thousand, that is what it means. From this, we can conclude that the competition sphere is making an increasing contribution to the growth of the number of employees in Hungary today, which I believe was one of the government objectives of 2010, but they can remember it, and we can actually recall to all of us that this was actually the case for all parties at some point, then there was one who had forgotten, but that was everyone's goal at the time to be primarily the competition sphere, so the primary labour market is the engine where more and more employees appear. Ladies and gentlemen, Between November 2013 and April 2014, the government has set itself the objective of ensuring a continuous and simultaneous public employment for 200,000 people. And you may recall that in addition to the public workers working with 100 thousand, nearly 100 thousand, we have been able to provide training for nearly 100 thousand people that can offer different opportunities either in a future public employment programme or in the open primary labour market, to help them move forward. At one time, so many people have not participated in this type of programme at the same time in Hungary, which, you may remember, was a program that required great interest, so it was a program that I think that we were able to meet this program well, and those who did it were able to meet it well. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013, the figures were thus more favourable than in the previous year in terms of increasing employment and reducing unemployment. In the 16-64-year-old population, the number of people employed was 1.7 percent higher than in 2012. You may also remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2012 the government announced the action plan for the protection of jobs at the initiative of the governing parties, such as Fidesz. The whole point of this action plan was to indirectly support workers who, through employers, are vulnerable to the labour market. Thus, we have provided tangible assistance for those over 55 years of age, for those who are about to retire, either for young beginners or for those with low educational attainment, or for those who have been unemployed for a long time, i.e. those who are long-term unemployed. The numbers show that? have employers applied discounts for more than 700,000 people? that this was a successful and well-targeted initiative. When we compare the issue of the action plan on the protection of jobs with the economic period, i.e. the start of economic growth, we can also see that this was a good measure because it was able to provide assistance not only in a stagnating period, but also in a later period, it can, could and can, and can, provide significant help in 2014 as well. So I think that this Parliament has also made a good decision. In the context of this debate, it is worth noting that in 2013 it was 116 billion forints that helped workers, and again, the help provided through employers. Of this, a very important figure is that employers had a discount of HUF 51.4 billion for those over 55 years of age. This meant that the social contribution tax burden was lower for employers. In my belief, one of the greatest values of this action, this programme, in addition to the specific job retention, was that it was a very simple, very small bureaucracy measure that could be enforced. I think that the effectiveness of this action, the effectiveness of the parliamentary decision, is perhaps also shown in the second place, and I say again, in addition to preserving jobs, besides preserving specific jobs, that it was very easy to enforce, and that is the case in this period. Of course, there is also a need to talk about the future, as we continue to aim to create new jobs primarily in the primary labour market, so that market players can continue to have opportunities to maintain or create new jobs. [[13.40]] I believe that the job protection action is a form of support that we can, of course, carry on in the next year. Therefore, 2013 was still a period of experience in this respect. A good experience, a positive period of experience in terms of employment was the job protection action plan. In terms of numbers, it is also important to record this among many sentences in which some opposition representatives try to paint the sky darker than the darker, expressing their comments in such a way that everything is worse, worse, and worse. I would like to point out that, in addition to those over 55 years of age, the percentage of people employed in non-skilled jobs accounted for about a third of this job protection action plan, i.e. about 30%, and I think in 2013? But are we going to tell you this later on in 2014? a breakthrough has also been made for young people starting their careers. Of course, I would like to add again what I said at the beginning of my speech: if the question of whether there is anything to do is, of course, there is a lot to do, and once again, we are ready to continue the measures and to provide the resources needed for these measures. As a reminder, I would like to say that opposition representatives said at the time when we drafted the 2013 Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs, that there will be insufficient resources, that we will not be able to provide adequate resources, and it turns out that we were able to manage this properly in 2013 and this year, so we have provided the right resources for the benefit of workers and families. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Obviously, the time frame, the time constraints, does not give you the opportunity to describe in detail all important issues relating to economy and employment, but I would like to point out that it was a good decision to support large investment in manufacturing in employment in Hungary. We can already see in 2013, but decisively in 2014, we can see signs of what a really important decision it was to support certain investments, since in many areas of the country, the government has made very important, decisive decisions, and it is increasingly visible that Hungarian companies are increasingly able to relate to these government-supported investments, manufacturing and automotive investments. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thanking for this opportunity, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-14-38	Thank you. To this next speech, I would like to ask Mr László Kiss, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2014-10-14-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, 2013 was a year of declining real earnings, increasing taxes, brutal austerity, increasing public debt, weakening forints, hasty, unpredictable economic policy. People were getting more and more money, but they barely gave them back any of it. So the budget itself was the state's pilot play, from which only those at the top of the pyramid made a large profit. This was also seen in the field of education. What kind of education system did the state spend on, what did you spend people's money on? Inoperative! The Public Education Act has created a proven non-functioning system after many changes. KLIK's fault-carrying operation has resulted in several internal investigations, from which the most reprehensible was encrypted for mysterious reasons, and only parts of it could be made public. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame!]] Today, we do not know what the result of malfunctioning is the confusion that led to the transfer of HUF 57 billion more money to the operation of this organization. According to this investigation, which has somehow been leaked, so according to the investigation ordered by you and carried out by your government commissioner, the KLIK? I quote: "It is not cost-effective," literally writes: "My conservative estimate is that 2 billion forints should have been saved by increasing efficiency." [[István Tukacs: Answer this question, Mr Secretary of State.]] So to make it clear: instead of spending 57 billion forints extra on the education that you organized for KLIK's operation, you could have saved 2 billion forints, citing the study that you have encrypted, but leaked out of it. [[Nándor Gúr: Skandalum!]] Only 685 of the 1642 contracts in Budapest do not have registration numbers according to the investigation for the operation of the central KLIK. That's 41.7 percent of the contracts. This is the system you spent your money on. [[Nándor Gúr: Scandal!]] You spent the Hungarian people's money on this system. Public education is characterised by a state-controlled mess. While your system of institutions could not even register 40 percent of the incoming letters, the KLIK internal system sent a circular to schools, an internal rule in which the letters used by schools were addressed to the letter angle. This is not very important, but this angle has been set at 7%. So to understand idiotism: while the system you operate was unable to provide 40 percent of the incoming letters with a registration number, there is a provision on the percentage of the rate to which the letters used in schools should be addressed. That's what you spend your money on. [[Nándor Gúr: That's how much they can do!]] It was a very important and important regulation that in June 2014 it was necessary to decide that schools should change their names. There have been very effective changes in names, usually before the name of the schools the name of the settlement came to the place where the school worked, as there are obviously hundreds of institutions of the same name in every Hungarian city. It doesn't seem to cost money. In fact, however, all the school documents had to be recreated, all the seals had to be recreated, and I don't know if he's going to say anything to you, I'm sure most of them are, however, graduating in June, in May-June, the institutions had to repress the graduation papers in several cases. That cost a lot of money! This is what the government spends its education on! Spread the money from where it's not. This system also preserves tensions in the system. The age limit for compulsory education has been reduced to 16 years. The most vulnerable are affected by this regulation, and many have already talked about the increase in the number of people leaving school without a degree. You are a mandatory student who is removed from school at the age of 16. This is the kind of education that is being carried out on Hungarian taxpayers' money! This system is confusing, making it financially difficult to acquire qualifications, and the incomprehensible wording of the legislation results in in incomprehensible operation. This is well demonstrated by the system of vocational training. If you constantly modify the training lists, new plans and concepts keep coming to light, billions of Hungarian people's money will be killed for plans that no one will implement. [[13.50]] This is your vocational training system. They operate vocational training which reduces the proportion of public knowledge subjects, by the way, when the surveys of the institutions you run and the PISA surveys show that today the competence of a first vocational school is well below the competences of an eighth-grader. You will reduce the number of hours of vocational education and training in public knowledge and development, such hours, when, by the way, a graduate school student, according to your measurements, doesn't have the same skills as an average eighth grader. That's what you spend your money on. This system is an arbitrary system. The state intervenes in the functioning of schools in a dictatorial manner. The directors are appointed by government agencies, but the question is, of course, who's whispering behind government offices. Who suggests who should be appointed? Bishop, Miskolc? but you can list examples of cases where the school principal was not supported by anyone other than a mysterious fidesz source, which the decision maker did not want to name. We are talking about examples where educators who have done their job well, who have been in the director's chair for several decades, counted as respected members of the community, these people and this community have been dealt with by putting a Fidesz cadre on their necks. In this House, the Secretary of State could not name who supported the school principal who had failed since then in Miskolc, because he was not a member of the board, the staff community from which he would have received a vote. Of course, they say that the tender is public and the KLIK decides. But they may feel that if in a system where no one supports a principal, there is no soul at school who is familiar with his program and supports it, then how can it be appointed. How can you do that? ! You operate such a system with the money of the Hungarian people. This system is unpredictable. This is well demonstrated by the fact that KLIK has a three-year back payment to teachers for bank account management costs. But it wasn't that this legitimate need of educators was recognized to solve the case with an apology and a promise. A Pécs educator had to win a court suit against the state, his own employer, to acknowledge that, yes, the cost of paying his income was not his. It's a little silly that we're still paying for them to pay us. This system is averted. It focuses on the radical reduction of high school places, early selection and the new National Basic Study Plan, in which there is nothing new, but nothing new. Instead of thinking, freedom of knowledge, equality books return, your desire, the equal world: with an equal textbook, the equal educator teaches equals. The fact that perhaps one educational institution is located, say, in Bishop's Lady, another in Füzesabony, and the third in District V, the fourth in Fékásmegyer, is that perhaps, let's say, the III. In the district, the Veres Péter High School has a special educational program, which is unique, that is not interesting, as it is much more important for you to have an equal world and even sauce, but this equator is not only gray, but also washes all the positive results of teachers and Hungarian pedagogical thinking away from education. Dear House, The 2013 discharge law does not support in any way the government's statements that the government pays particular attention to education. That's just not true. While there are additional resources, this is a clear fact, the excess resources are mostly used to pay money that would not otherwise be needed if the system worked well. All I have to do is refer you back to the tens of billions of forints that are going to waste the KLIK. We can say that this source goes to the schools, but I ask you, how can it happen that while you're paying the KLIK amazing money while you're bringing people together in the National Teacher's Faculty? You're obviously gonna have to pay for this from somewhere? Meanwhile, last year, schools were threatened with blackouts, power shutdowns, heating shutdowns because in many places the KLIK was unable to pay the bills in time. I would like to point out that this has never been the case since the change of regime, that schools have not paid their bills, and that they are therefore threatened by shutting them off from the network. They reject the rightful need of teachers to receive additional resources if they are already forced to do extra work. This is your education system. The centralised disorganization of public education cannot show any success, except that it wastes the Hungarian people's money with more success than ever before. While there is a greater chance of education than ever before, there is a greater opportunity for everyone to receive education in the country that is worthless, while the reality is that it is even expensive. The teacher-life model you've built has caused a wage increase for some of the teachers and wage tension for others. In the career model, educators who have obtained a vocational exam are in no way valued by teachers who are doing extra work while creating wage tension, as teachers and non-peducators have not been given almost any increase in the system. They didn't get the surplus that gave them the invisible water head of the CLIK. I was pulled from school, national talent program, cross-border education, culture and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Sport seems to be the government's success story. However, while the government spends 50 billion forints on sports, it can be seen that this source goes mostly to competitions, elite sports, but there is little money available for mass sports. The overwhelming majority of the amount is based on new stadiums where no one goes to see the events of Hungarian sports. You are building empty bleachers, while the sport of the Hungarian countryside gets to the point where the sports fields and football fields have been deployed in several places. I passed a village where corn grew on the football field. Corn! [[Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] Obviously not because you're so supportive of the country's sport. The share of gambling has decreased by one third, and one third of the money is not paid by these entrepreneurs. I would therefore like to ask in this House whether the Fidesz gambling puppy to be built by Andy Vajna will return this money. Finally, in the debate on closing accounts, you have built a false world. The Socialist Party does not support the proposal because of the deception in education. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-40	Thank you. As the next speaker, I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, from Jobbik.
u2014-10-14-41	Mr President, Dear House, Once again, it is not easy, because once again we cannot talk about a debate on closing accounts, it is clear that various opposition forces will list their concerns with different approaches throughout the day, to which there will be no meaningful reaction during the debate, and then we will receive our own within the framework of a closing clause, which we will obviously no longer have the opportunity to respond to. This is a pathetic, weak and powerless attitude from a two-thirds power, a two-thirds government, whose task now would be to explain at least the majority of the Commissioner's 2013 own certificate. But not only do you dare not explain it, but do we not even see the speakers who have been cast in advance in this Chamber? At least some of them? So you can see that not only does he not participate in the debate because of some external circumstances, but he did not want to stoop to try to explain not only to us, but to the voters behind us, the public in the country, why he did not know what he had promised for 2013? In a typical way? perform. [[14.00]] In many cases, even in the lead vocal round, it has been said that, compared to the indicators from a year ago, they have tried to talk about some improvement, and I do not want to have this minimal statistical improvement taken away, as I am not an opponent. For me, the greatest pleasure is that if things work well in Hungary, economic processes work well. If this is indicated by statistical displacement in microns, I and Jobbik's faction will be satisfied. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Dezső Believing.]] At the same time, we can see that, while explaining the minimum displacement compared to the catastrophic events of a year ago, there is a complete lack of a government vision that would be able to outline what you want to do with Hungary in a decade's perspective; what strategic ideas you have on how to move Hungary out of this very difficult situation, because what we are talking about here, and what we have before us, is not just about the economy at all. But if you look at the economic approach, you are once again, year after year, cutting off a very, very important task, without which the weight of paper before us is virtually worthless. As long as we don't have a national inventory of assets, we don't have a national inventory, so we don't know whether or not the treasury silver is available, so how do you want to lead a country in a responsible manner? In four and a half years, they were unable to build a decent inventory. There was a rudimentary discussion about national wealth in the middle of the previous term, when not a national inventory of assets, but a list of things that you considered to be part of the national wealth was presented to us. If I remember correctly, it was missing the Chain Bridge, the building of Parliament, where we argued about it, fortunately we had it, but it was still a comic and pathetic lack of professionalism in order to create a national inventory of assets. Even in terms of foreign reserves and foreign reserves, and even in terms of gold reserves, there are serious debates in Hungary about how much what is available is, where it comes from, what is the fate of it, and what really is the lack of wealth in the inventory that is found is already making what lies ahead of us worthless, because you do not even know what kind of wealth Hungary as an entity can manage, what is it that you should protect if necessary. At the same time, there is a veterinary horse in this whole system, which is also revealed in the context of closing accounts, and this is the role of so-called special taxes. The government's undisclosed intention was to give priority to consumption-type taxation, to reach a state of burden on various of you in terms of consumption. This has gone a bit wrong, although his basic philosophy can still be explained and justified. However, it can be seen from statistics that the scale of the special taxes has already reached corporate tax for the period covered by the closing accounts, i.e. a very large tax revenue mass. It is therefore worth examining who you are burdening with this, whether it is the original target group, and how justified or not the burden of the Hungarian population is. It can be seen that the number of special taxes, i.e. the number of types, is increasing steadily, as in 2009 there were only four separate taxes: credit institution benefits, energy tax, income tax on energy suppliers, this is commonly known as Robin Hood tax, and certain types of taxes affecting the pharmaceutical sector. Finally, we got to the point that, for the period concerned, by 2013, the public utility tax, the insurance tax, the financial transaction levy had already increased to 12. So an amazing tax burden appeared on the Hungarian market. We're not saying that special taxes are unjustified, not at all. The involvement of the financial sector in public burdens would be more than justified, and the Jobbik fraction will be the first to support the real implementation of this. However, the amazing situation is that, for example, it was passed on to the general public in its entirety after the increase in the transaction fee. This has been admitted by the financial sector, not only in informal communications, but also in official form. Hungarian entrepreneurs received official letters from their creditor bank that due to the increase in the transaction fee, from January of the year concerned, this and this increased burden should be paid or charged to the account. So in an amazing way? contrary to the intention of the legislator? Hungarian citizens, Hungarian entrepreneurs, were also burdened with this burden of billions. And the government of Hungary was sitting in its place with two-thirds authority, silently, did nothing, and now it does nothing, sitting still in their seats, no one is pressing a button to respond to the financial transaction fee they claim to charge the banks? Is it on your billboard? I've been asked why the Hungarian people are paying for the last stinky penny. So let it be said that if there is a market process contrary to the intention of the legislator, more than a two-thirds mandate would be needed for meaningful action. The lack of response speaks for itself. It can also be seen that until 2009, while these special taxes accounted for less than 1 percent of the total central budget revenue, a value of around 0.6 is reflected in the statistics, we reached between 4.5 and 4.8 percent in 2010-11. In the period we have covered, and by 2013, this value has already reached 7 percent, and it should also be seen that, in this context, the types of taxes charged to financial entities accounted for around 70 percent of the total tax volume. And if most of this 70 percent has been passed on in a qualified manner, then it can be said that this huge special tax burden, which, once again, reaches the level of corporate tax collection, remains largely on the part of Hungarian citizens, without consequences, and this situation is being maintained by you. They maintain that they have tried to draw up three elections in such a way that this very important subject has been essentially negled at negotiating level. The real and real problem, in the meantime, is that while the average Hungarian employee earns on average 40% of the EU wage level, prices continue to represent 83 percent of the EU average. So these giant scissors have not been narrowed down in recent years and years. But it can also be said that as long as a national inventory is missing, as long as there are such huge imbalances on the market, the micro shifts that are mentioned in the context of closing accounts simply lose their importance, and in the long term, nothing is promising or symptomatic, but without a long-term vision, there is no way to talk about improving Hungary's situation. After all, the population continues to devote much of its income to loan repayments and savings, but savings are also deceptive, as many people also have to pay off their savings, let's say, their foreign currency loans. Thus, the exposure and vulnerability of Hungarian citizens are constantly increasing. It can also be said that while the tax and tax-type revenues of the central budget increased by more than 6 percent in 2013, they are trying to make us believe that there is a 2.8 percent increase in retail payments. But if we weigh this figure by the amount of tax burdened, then we see that again the greatest burden has been on those Hungarian citizens who had no chance to defend themselves against it, since neither the government nor the supervisory system nor any of them have protected them against it. The fight against public debt also seems to be lost, as it can be seen that while the burden on repayment was 8.7 and 8.6 percentage points respectively for 2012-2013, the shift, the fight against sovereign debt that you announced did not result in any reduction in the burden. We continue to pay over 1000 billion dollars each year, and I claim that much of it is unduly after the debt burden of which the review of which would now indeed be inevitable. And all this is added to the HUF 4000-4500 billion, which multinationals pump untaxed every year from Hungary, with amazing techniques such as the renting of manufacturing technology, the renting of IT systems, where the ceiling is unknown. These multi-companies, which you treat as strategic partners instead of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, are clearly pumping thousands of billions from Hungary. And then let us look briefly at this question as a closing point, with whom Hungary's government has signed and signed strategic contracts during the closing period. Well, 48, especially a multinational company that may not be in need of this support, but is it also certain that they honor each other's great efforts through pages? is the government and the multi-company involved now? summarise the strategic objectives of the agreements, which are also: job creation, economic recovery and similar generalities, in terms of boosting the economy, competitiveness of the country and job creation, and then in some points with full generalities. But, for example, in the description of the document signed with Magyar Telekom and which is still available on the Internet before me, it is also perfectly visible that, according to one of the last sentences of the document, neither party is legally liable under this agreement. [[14.10]] So even your strategic agreements can't be counted if they are. You can also see that coffee, sandwiches, multi-companies sign similar meaningless paperwork, it's worth looking behind the numbers a little bit. In 2007, when Hankook's factory in Hungary was handed over, and the government gave HUF 16 billion state aid for this, 1500 jobs were created, so it cost a little more than HUF 10 million to create a single job. Fidesz, as a opposition party, freaked out as usual, protested very loudly, otherwise I claim it right and right. However, we are seriously mistaken if we believe that the situation has changed after 2010. Consider an example of the closing accounting period. In 2013, the South Korean company was able to pick up nearly twice the amount mentioned above and 19 million for all newly recruited employees. So in 2007, you protested very, very loudly, and then gave the multi-company double the amount of this support for each job. The workers of the Dunaújváros plant are, in fact, among the better earners in Hungary, and they can bring home up to HUF 200,000 net per month, which is about HUF 4.6 million per year for the employer. Based on the above subsidy amount, it turns out that the Hungarian state, you, through the government, pays Hankook employees' wages for four full years with gross wages and contributions. So, a state-supported, not to say that it is a public employment, but a programme in which the huge subsidies you unduly grant do not reach Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but cover the total labour costs of multi-enterprises, multi-enterprises that do not take part in public burdens, pump money out of Hungary, often damage the national economy. You can see, therefore, that they are on a very bad path when they want to outline this as a future for job creation. In the above, one of the very few Fidesz speakers said that you would tie the Hungarian economy to the world class, invite these multi-enterprises in, conclude a strategic agreement with 48, and then? This is where it came from, didn't I say it? As a supplier, Hungarian companies can join these networks. This is therefore the aim of the Hungarian company being a supplier. This is no longer about self-sustaining enterprises, the exploitation of Hungarian agricultural and manufacturing capacities. It's about supplier status. It is also apparent that, as you said, this policy has been consistently pursued since 2010, but statistics show that while it is possible to argue about the number of employees, the number of employees employed in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises has decreased by tens of thousands since you took over in 2010. Thus, the mass of strategic contracts signed with multinationals brings us here, leading to the perfect contempt of Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian citizens, by failing to get rebuttals about the facts and findings that lie before us from the world of numbers, so it is very difficult to argue with them. But please at least try, not because of me, not because of the Jobbik faction, but because of their possible respect for the millions of voters behind us. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-14-42	Thank you. Among the independents, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju in a 15-minute frame.
u2014-10-14-43	Mr. President. Dear House, In fact, we could consider it amusing that, in addition to practically an outbound Fidesz fraction, the government is just here among us, while the opposition is telling us its legitimate objections, and apparently ignoring all this, the State Audit Office is putting a report on our table in which it actually stands up to the government, glorifying all the inefficiencies that the government has promised earlier, is now trying to back it up here. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] So it's no wonder I remember a quote that Dezső Szabó said back in that period. For a long time I sought the right historical term for this last four-year swamp fever. At last, I found it to be relatively eloquent that ferret class, because the ferret is sneaky, stealous and stinky. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Well, let's see, if you so much like to compare your looks to the political course at that time, how your attitude towards this is, because it's hard to see that people's pension savings have been stolen and, as a result of this, the public finances have been burdened again, and this pension savings have been burned, you have lived up and used up when you claim that all this is being used to reduce debt, to reduce public debt. Many people were deceived by the fact that they were not making any cuts, but during the last few years more than 24 separate taxes and new taxes were introduced, the benefits of which were being raised in the 2013 budget. So the whole thing reeks of the lie in that budget and the report on it about its communication, and in two areas I would like to show it vividly. We saw an example of one of them yesterday. Prime Minister stood up and talked about cooperation, cooperation and agreement throughout the country. Ladies and gentlemen, In what you do, there has never been any agreement in this country. What you're doing is mostly... And let's look at the specific area, Prime Minister, you mentioned that there are already 4 million people who you have signed up for employment. Let's take it out of him, yes, those public workers you're very protective of, rightly, give them a job, but otherwise you know very well that our employment numbers have not changed substantially from this situation. They are also not related to what Prime Minister said yesterday that before 2010 3 million out of 800 thousand...? in reality, it is 3 million 800 thousand people, and so I must say that nothing has changed substantially under your governance, regardless of the activity in 2013, as far as employment is concerned. Then what is this in relation to the employment targets set out in the 2014-2020 strategies, where, by the way, a numerically 75% rate is set, and the Prime Minister is talking about full employment? Do you know that talking about full employment and doing it are two different things? The difference is about the same as when you promised Hungary and led people to believe that they were creating a million new jobs, for which they were, by the way, four years old? Although let's just assume that they've been doing this for 10 years, as it turned out, and we'd rather count on these numbers? You should have created 8,000 new jobs every month. Compared to that, they can practically account for zero. So that's the difference between your promise and created reality. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's comment on full employment yesterday will be in the same relationship with what he did in the previous period. But I would like to give you another example of how they act in this way. It also says that when you talked about job creation, a few years ago, when an employer in Gyöngyös signed up for job creation, it was driven away with your strong cooperation. [[14.20]] Now, three kilometers away, the same factory will carry out the same activity with your financial support, because now it doesn't stink what it does. As regards employment, your report is not, therefore, on a thank-you basis, either with reality, and I am deeply sorry that the State Audit Office of Hungary has given its name to this by essentially trying to support it in this way as a former Member of the Parliament of Fidesz, although instead it would have been necessary to draw up a very fair report. But the same area should be reviewed and reviewed when we are actually looking at one of the very important areas of opportunity, the possibility of using EU funds. 2013 is an extremely important year, since the country closes its first seven-year cycle, the first time in which Hungary had the opportunity to catch up with the support of the European Union, with the support of the cooperation of the countries against which you are fighting for freedom, but sometimes not just verbally. So, we're gonna have to account for the result of this support. By 31 December 2013, the options were essentially closed. In this summary, however, and on the basis of the presentation of the President of the State Audit Office, there is a substantial difference between the objectives set and the results achieved, and this can now be seen on the move. What we do not know today is that one of the reasons for this is that they have already tried to make the institutional system impossible, which, by the end of the year, you have also abolished and eliminated, and instead we do not know what will happen, because they do not have a valid answer, and the country does not yet know that. But from what you have described here, it can be seen that, in fact, as a result of the seven years in which two governments worked in this area, they used the necessary resources for the Hungarian economy. And so it will be unforgivable that if what you have done in the last year, and this year, there is an opportunity for payments to move forward at an appropriate pace, but it is obvious that we cannot draw the entire envelope. I think that you are responsible for this, and as much as you have tried to deliver something three or four times in the process and create a new opportunity, whether we call it the Várkert Bazaar or something else, but handing something over every meter, the unfortunate fact is that Hungary cannot draw the funds available to it. This is true even if you have to face the fact that when you took over the area, it was essentially your job to prepare and complete it, the projects which, by the way, I must say, will serve the country well in many respects. The point is, if we don't take advantage of this opportunity, we can't take advantage of it, it's gonna damage the whole country, and it's gonna be your responsibility. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-44	Thank you. For the first two minutes, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2014-10-14-45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for a two-minute speech in order to clarify some of the things that were said during the process, so that it was clear in the context of the further debate that, let us say, in 2013, how and how things turned out in connection with the processes affecting the world of work. It is not just public employment that, in a sense, triggers growth in employment statistics. It's okay to have public employment, and it's really good. It would, of course, be even better if it were combined with value-creating activities, and not a l. art pour l. art-based in many cases. But do you need to add at least two items immediately? I can add five, but at least two? Which is always left out by pro-government politicians. One is that half a million people left this country as economically persecuted because they couldn't create their existence here, they couldn't guarantee the safety of their family. Of these people, statistics record the surplus recorded in the employment register in the order of hundreds of thousands. So that's another hundred grand in scale. But if you look at the third element of how and how part-time employment was developed during this period, during the last cycle, you can see that the eight-hour employment was turned into four hours in many places. The number of four-hour employees has increased by 50-60 thousand. It's okay if the eight o'clock doesn't decrease. But it's a problem if the eight o'clock is a four-hour job and people get less wages. And these four-hour employees are taken as one in the statistics as well as eight-hours. Now, these are the slides, these are the lies that make it possible to show a better picture through statistics, but the reality is not better, but worse. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-46	Thank you. To speak further, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-47	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, We are playing here in a sandbox that Viktor Orbán has appointed for us, and for three or four hours now we have been arguing about how much money and what has been spent in the last year. Well, we're screwed. We are well fooled, because as we play with numbers and definitions here, we can also say that Parliament works, that opposition representatives are given the opportunity to express their views, while we know well how the whole Parliament's operation has been transformed in this government cycle. However, it is worth pointing out a few things, I think. The 2013 budget year was all about poverty in a large part of the country. My dear friends, this year's mass of sociological studies has come to light. After our many requests to God, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office published the minimum living information, although it has been hidden for a long time. I know the government communicators have been sitting on this stuff for weeks, and I know what you can get out of it, because these indicators were dramatic. This showed that 4.8 million people were already living at the minimum social level in 2013. You don't have to explain this in particular, my dear friends. The OECD study was the same, the same was the previous year's survey of Tarki, and I could say more. They all backed up. In poverty today? Am I talking about data from 2013? 3.3 million people live. Think about what this means for such a society. It's a lousy answer that a secretary of state threw at me yesterday to embarrass me because we used to keep hundreds of thousands of people on welfare. Then I now report to you with great respect, and during your administration, hundreds of thousands of people who were entitled to aid have not received any kind of care. There has not been an element of social solidarity in recent years either. Dear Friends! What if we just shine a light on it from the employment side? I will not dwell on this because my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, will obviously address this issue? Just think about that simple sociological fact, and I'm bringing this up because here they're not far from us, eight to ten meters away, in the Prime Minister's study, working on how to stop all aid in this country. The election's over, I think we can work on that now? Do you think it's the Prime Minister? How Hungary will be transformed in a final way. [[14.30]] From what I hear, they're going to eliminate the child, they're going to eliminate the regular social aid, they're going to eliminate the transitional aid, they're going to eliminate the income support, they're going to abolish the nursing allowance and the elderly's benefits. That's what's going on in the witch's kitchen, ten meters from us! That's why I've just taken the example from the employment side. Think of the situation where there are jobs in a settlement, and hundreds of people, thousands of people want to work, and hundreds and thousands of people can work, and the state still has a job to do. In the case where there is a job, but most people can't work, but they want to work, the state still has a job to do, only then has a different job for the state. And if there's a job, and they want to work, they can work, but they can't go there, the state still has a job. And I could tell you more. Because what if there's no job, but they want to work, they want to work? Then the state has another business to attend to. Dear Friends! If you put all the variations in a matrix, you could name forever how many places the state still has to deal with while you think everything's okay. It's a terrible, bad answer to say, "Let's all go to work." Most people would like to work, by the way. Dear Friends! I would like to focus on two areas. One is the issue of social assistance and services, and the other is the issue of health care and pension systems. In the submitted version of the 2013 budget, the outlines of a new aid concept were first presented. I'll tell you honestly, when I got this document, I actually liked it at first. True, it was a bit like the social care system of the current Federal Republic of Germany, and it was also named NSZK in an elegant manner in Hungary. This, of course, did not refer to Germany, but to the social concept. But then it turned out the government didn't like it that much. I would like to outline the government thinking in which that sector would have been separated. Aid would have been made up of two components, one of which was the basic support component and would have added income in the absence of sufficient income. That's rational. But it's not the rationality they're working on right now that all aid needs to be abolished. Now, this idea has failed, including the Secretary of State, he's been evicted from the government. In particular, I did not miss him, but I think that if some innovation could have been brought into the social care system, the service structure, the relief system, it would have been worth continuing on this path. Finally, if we look at the additional appropriations for each income supplement, the HUF 81 billion of the HUF 104 billion appropriations provided by the Finance Act were completed. This is the budget line that ensures that the municipalities pay aid provided for by different laws. Due to the various transfers, the appropriation was reduced, but only a part of it was used to pay social assistance in a different way, and HUF 12.8 billion was spent in favour of the local government chapter reserve, HUF 6.5 billion was transferred to support various local authorities, and HUF 3.6 billion was transferred to the article Renewal and Investment of Educational Education Institutions. Now here's a question. Is the number of aided people reduced by more than HUF 20 billion? But, dear friends, I have just referred to it that all sociological measurements have said that it shows that independent organizations, from Tarki to OECD, have increased poverty in this country, while you spend less money on aid. So the direct consequence of this is that poverty has grown, poverty has deepened. The number of poor has not only increased in the last budget year 2013, but those who were poor have become even poorer. In the area of social services, a significant part of the services was nationalised this year, in 2013. This is how DG Social and Child Protection was established at the time. According to the reasons for the closure, more than 46,000 people were provided in the 177 institutions that he maintained, 68.4 percent of those who received social care, and 31.6 percent of those who received child protection and child welfare care. However, there is no mention in this report of whether the institutional transfers were smooth, whether the wages and other benefits of the workers were properly paid during the transfer. Because as far as we know, the transitions didn't go smoothly, as far as we know, they didn't have access to their salaries and benefits. Centrally funded support services, community benefits, signalling home assistance, street social work and support for crisis centres were reduced by nearly HUF 500 million in 2013, while Fidesz campaigned just before 2010 to spend a great deal more money on these activities and these services. And then, of course, when they got on the wheel, they thought it was completely different. Among other things, the National Association of Disabled Associations has already written an open letter to you regarding the redevelopment of support services, and I myself have asked the Minister of the Ministry of Control of the Wallet. Well, I got an answer that didn't have anything at all. The cost of the portfolio for social tasks has been reduced in many places compared to the previous year. It is outstanding that financial support for disabled people ceased in 2013. Of course, there's no mention of that in the hymns. They reassure those affected by raising disability support with this money, while otherwise spending more on it in 2012. And last year, this raise was glorified as a benefit, even though it was only at the expense of other disability benefits that they were able to raise and secure. Dear Friends! I need to say a few sentences about housing. Housing must be discussed because it is strictly related to government propaganda on reducing the cost of the rent. Dear Friends! We had an initiative on a fairer so-called reduction in overhead bills, but Fidesz did not support our proposal, which would have been a fair reduction in overhead. On the basis of our proposal, pricing would have been differentiated on the basis of consumption volumes, and this would have been the way in which the burden on consumers in the supply of electricity and gas would have been established and, depending on this, the level of support would have been allocated to income. You did not support this. At the same time, it is clear to everyone that if a person has a high consumption, he will receive a large reduction in the costs. Dear Friends! One million people living in the upper income tenths, they are the richest in this country, with an average monthly reduction of HUF 25,000. Tell me, what is the cost reduction for a man with a corn stalk? ! What is the reduction in the cost of the unfortunate man who had the gas turned off a long time ago or turned off the light? Nothing. This shows the perverse redistribution the Fidesz government is thinking about. A survey of Habitat Hungary has come to light recently. My dear friends, does this show that 900,000 apartments are heated with wood, coal, or other fuel? Well, there's no reduction in the rent here - which shows that for families with children, there are 170,000 children living in apartments with no toilets, there is no electricity in the home of 197 thousand children? Hang on, there's no power in XXI. In the middle of the century! ? And 620,000 kids live in an apartment with a leaky roof, musty or smelly, moldy apartment. I told you I was going to say a few unscrupulous sentences about health care, but, dear friends, I don't have time for that, I guess. However, in relation to the disability and rehabilitation benefits, I have to say a few sentences. This was the result of the review of the disabled, and it turned out that the state spent 10 billion dollars less money in 2013 than in 2012. [[14.40]] Dear Friends! It is not a problem, it is not a problem that an element of the pension system or an element of the social care system is being touched, because I have always represented it, because these systems must be flexible because, as a result of flexible operation, unexpected challenges can always be faced to which good answers must be found. But as they began, for example, to reconstruct the disabled supply, without any transition, hundreds of thousands of people were humiliated from month to month, all this matter was about the withdrawal of resources. Under one hat, all pension under the age limit was abolished: early retirement was abolished, early retirement was abolished, early retirement was abolished. Hundreds of thousands of people have been put in a position where, let's say, after 60 years of age, they lose their existence, lose their jobs, have more than 40 years of working time, but they cannot retire because, without any transition, they have radically abolished all retirement age. Some people have 44 years of working time, but they haven't spent their 62.5 years, and they can't retire. They can't retire with 44 years of service! I consider it Hungary's biggest shame that disability and accident disability pensions have been abolished. Even a politician should understand, it doesn't take a professional to do that, that disability is an insurance risk, disability is not planned as retirement, that happens. And no transition was allowed, and the biggest tragedy of the whole supply system was that a corrupt, dark bastard, Gábor Pósfai, was allowed into the system of invalid supply. Thank God, I hear he got kicked out of his job last month. Now, that was the only good thing this government did in the 2013 budget negotiations. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-48	For a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, on Jobbik's part.
u2014-10-14-49	Mr President, Dear House, The words of former State Secretary Lajos Korózs require some reaction and correction in that it would indeed be terrible for anyone to touch the kid, but let us not think that the whole system of relief is good in the way that you have handled it. As a person concerned, you're an expert in this area, but don't you think that's what it is? If we continue to increase the amount of aid? Whatever, let's say, in terms of the formula that the EU's 20 worst counties, four of its regions are still located in the eastern part of Hungary. [[Lajos Korózs: But that's not what I said.]] We can bring in any amount of aid if there is no thoughtful urban development plans, no thoughtful regional development plans, and no change can be made to this situation. And speaking of housing, he brought up the reduction of the rent as a very important issue. I'm gonna take a deep breath now, and I'm gonna go over the fact that by 2010, we were able to produce Europe's first and second highest gas and electricity prices by the end of your regnation, right? I will also go beyond the fact that your former government has guaranteed 8 percent profit for the affected utility companies that have pumped hundreds of billions out of Hungary. But if we are talking about housing, then perhaps it would be worth giving some thought to how it might occur that, even in your time, there was no thoughtful home-building programme, but the current government could not bring together the fact that it could even increase the housing stock in Hungary to a measurable extent, or develop a system of early-life support for young people, since there is a home-building branch of the budget, the only thing it covers is the exchange rate barrier, the state foot of the 2.0s. So he's financing government funds for the banks you're supposed to have accounted for on your billboards. So there are really such areas of focus, it is worth talking about, but the period 2013 and closing accounts still show that there has not been a lot of progress in these areas. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-14-50	On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs.
u2014-10-14-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the world, I wouldn't think of diverting the direction of this debate to opposition parties arguing with each other in Parliament when the government is filing a closing statement. Ergo, so I'd like to talk about the closing report, but with close links to Lajos Korózs. I think that what started in 2013 and what the text of the closing account before us proves is that the government imagines fiscal policy to the detriment of the poor, at least the less wealthy. Both in the tax system and its many elements, both in the social support system and in employment and in the money spent on it, it can be clearly demonstrated that there is a single layer for the government, a wealthy layer of ergo voters, supported for political purposes and benefited in all kinds of ways. They are not important to the government for those who have fallen, who are not wealthy, and who are probably not politically conscious, so they will not resonate on matters that deal with improving their situation. This policy, which appears in the budget and especially in the report, can be clearly demonstrated from 2010, as this was the government's policy. To create a new middle class, which is his own, to create a new entrepreneurial layer, which is his own, and now I'm quietly adding that it is also his own to create a new banking system. Therefore, I think that, in the context of the budget report, it is important to talk about those who have suffered the damage of this year 2013 and those before them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-52	I am now giving the floor to Imre Ritter as a minority advocate in two minutes.
u2014-10-14-53	[[He begins his comment in German and continues:]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to say a few thoughts for this debate as a distraction. In my 15-minute comment, of course, I was primarily trying to raise, if not fully, basic information on Hungarian ethnicities and positive issues that directly, directly, affect Hungarian ethnicities at the same time. At the same time, there are many areas, institutions and organisations, whose activities also, if you like, directly affect nationalities in Hungary and have budgetary implications. The only thing I would like to refer to is the National Election Office and the National Election Committee...? I would also like to thank Parliament for the adoption of its legislative amendment package tabled on 30 June. I would like to point out only two things quickly from this: firstly, by reducing technical problems with registration, I think that over the past few years we have saved thousands of rejected registration requests to the Election Office, and that the amendment of the law that came into force yesterday is that every minority voter in the next municipal election will be able to vote for nationality in the same voting booth, where we have saved hundreds of polling booths, ballot counting committees and the rest, which all have direct budgetary savings implications. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP in 15 minutes.
u2014-10-14-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government will continue the rampage it started in 2010. In essence, the transformation of the tax system has benefited people with higher incomes at the expense of low-income earners. The family tax relief provided minimal assistance to families with children in addition to the abolition of the tax credit. Support for those in need has not been increased this year either, which is why poverty has continued to increase. While hundreds of thousands of others have fallen below the minimum level of living and society has continued to split up, the government has spent less on welfare spending, but has continued to support unnecessary prestige investments and to transfer hundreds of billions of state revenues to top tenteen. In 2013, the amount of welfare expenditure as measured by the total expenditure fell significantly compared to 2010: from 61.5 per cent in 2010 to 56.7 per cent in 2013. This shows that the government was insensitive to the social crisis caused by the crisis. [[14.50]] Yet we know from different surveys, and it is not possible to say enough about what these surveys show: poverty and social exclusion have increased in recent years. All poverty indicators show that we belong to the poorest quarter of the EU. All poverty indicators show that today half of the 1.7 million children are deprived at some level in Hungary. Moreover, according to the OECD, social protection expenditure has been reduced since the crisis in Hungary as well as Greece, according to an international comparison. In addition, Hungary was the second hardest at cutting social expenditure, and between 2009 and 2013 the Cabinet reduced social expenditure by 10 percent compared to GDP. It must be said here that not only the crisis has a role to play in the growth of poverty, but also the shameful social policy of the Government of Hungary, in which the poor are constantly found guilty. As described in a recent study, is the deterioration of the income situation also due to the fact that most or no benefits involving families with children have been increased for years? Is this where we talk about family allowance, child benefit? either the amount has been reduced, the terms of support for employment, regular aid or access have been tightened so that many are consciously excluded from the system. Here it must be said that apart from public work, the government has given nothing to the least, but let us not forget how it did so. In 2011, it reduced the amount of public service wages by 20 percent, and in 2012 it also reduced the amount of aid received by those who do not receive public work. At the same time, the net amount of the minimum wage was not increased as the increase in gross wages did not bring any tangible increase due to the transformation of the tax system. Now the minimum wage is 66 thousand forints. With the government's tricks, he wanted people to be dazzled so that they wouldn't notice they were constantly poking around in their pockets. What happened this year? Five new taxes have been introduced, including transaction tax, accident tax. With these two taxes, tens of thousands of forints were taken out of the pockets of the Hungarian people. When the 2013 budget is presented, the following quote arises: when there really is a problem, they do not want to destroy the social sphere, they do not want to take those support opportunities away from the social portfolio, but to withdraw them from elsewhere, take them away from elsewhere or try to farm normally. What's the big deal? Of course, that's not even a question? Your government, which is a crisis that is already laughing in Hungary all over the world, and is that the saddest? said Miklós Soltész in 2008 in the 2009 budget debate. What do you now think of what has been done in recent years when Miklós Soltés was the State Secretary for Social Affairs? It is outrageous that, following this recent government decision, the 2013 remains will be transferred again, hundreds of millions of forints will be lost from the social sector, especially from social and child protection and child welfare institutions. Here, I would like to draw attention to a number of things. In the case of family allowances, I would like to highlight the family tax relief that you have introduced, and many people have said why this system is wrong and why it will not work, and why it will not reach the families where it is most urgently needed. Although the family tax relief could be used, and I talk about the large family members, the three or more children's children, that last year a family had to earn more than 600 thousand forints in order to make full use of 99 thousand forints a month. Secretary of State, you know that because you're the only one here from the government, how many people are looking for in Hungary today? If we're talking about two people, a family? HUF 611,000 gross. Of course, you've figured it out, but you didn't recognize it very long, and then it was extended during the campaign period, so that you could use other tools, so that the smaller earners could take advantage of the family tax relief. In 2013, they took away the increased family allowance from 60,000 sick children. It's not sacred to you when a child is sick. They're making everyone in this country guilty just so they can save money and make all kinds of prestigious investments and build, say, a stadium in your settlement. We're talking about 62,000 sick children who were cut off in 2013. The reduction of the age limit for compulsory education from 18 to 16 years is not only a conscious debauchery of the growing generation, because you do not need a smart man here, it is better to leave this country, raise serfs and lackeys in this country. That's what your prime minister said these days, and they've been saving money here. They do two things: they make society dumb and save money at the same time. At least the figures show a significant decrease in this direction as well. According to the closing accounts, in 2010 the state spent HUF 364 billion on the payment of the family allowance, in 2013 only HUF 337 billion. The number of children receiving the aid has also decreased, with an average number of children falling from 152 thousand to 2013. Is it important for us to say this because the government has spent the last four years? How did the first Orbán government do that? it did not increase the amount of the family allowance, so the benefit was again subject to a significant impairment. This is the only amount that is due to each child, regardless of the financial situation of his family. Regular child protection support has now been transformed by the government. Now you can get it in Elizabeth's voucher. It can also be seen that the planned HUF 7.1 billion amount has been achieved by 91 percent, not only because it is now more difficult for those in need to have access to this source of support, but in essence, access has not been changed for years and therefore cannot be obtained. But the biggest problem is that when poor families fall out of this support system, they don't get free meals from here on out, and they don't get textbook support. I have very little time left, and I would like to talk about a lot more. Here I must say that the success of a government is supported by the birth of children in a country. There were never as bad birth numbers in Hungary as in 2011: 88,000 children were born, and you have seen it as a success propaganda over the past two years, with a 2-3 percent increase in child births. This is also based on the cosmetics of the KSH, because we see two types of data from the published statistics. One data indicates that there are about 2,000 children who were born and registered abroad, but another data indicates that this could reach 10,000 children. If these numbers are taken out, the indicator in the child birth number that we see is much worse than what is published monthly. So, it can be said that your success propaganda only works on TV and in the media, Hungarian families are aware of it, because in this country it is now the greatest risk of poverty to have children. There's still time to talk about what's one of my favorite topics, stadium building. In the 2013 budget, tens of billions of forints were earmarked for all kinds of stadium construction, while the Hungarian football team lost twenty seats this year in 54th place. I think it's worth everything, but not to support football in Hungary. We spend tens of billions of forints on stadium construction. While you have introduced everyday physical education in schools, in the 2013 budget there is no provision for classroom building, gym building and schooling. In the meantime, they realized that they had already started in 2014, and they had allocated 3 billion forints for gym building and swimming pool building. [[15.00]] Twice 3 billion forints while building stadiums for tens of billions forints. There's no gym, and you know, Mr. Secretary, do I have to tell you? I suppose you've raised your child? , there is now theoretical physical education, theoretical, and theoretical dance education. This country has come this far. Ridiculous! And here it is to be said that the summer social food you sell as such a success propaganda is slowly becoming ridiculous, what you are doing with this program, which we, the socialist government, have introduced. Is it a success to sell that more than thousands of settlements have been excluded from the summer social catering, tens of thousands of children are excluded, about 30,000 children who do not receive meals in the summer for more than 50 days? And you talk about how you support families. Poverty can be found to the greatest extent in the villages, and it could also be said that we face poverty every day, especially with someone who dares to go out on the streets as a politician, but I could say that he will slowly punch us in the nose if we do so. The data is dramatic. As long as we say that every third child is starving, the proportion of children in these villages is between 50 and 70%. 50-70 percent, and in the meantime? Has Lajos Korózs told you in front of me? Some rooms away, they discuss how these support schemes should be cut even more, I think, just so that they can build more stadiums in this country. Would I say more to reduce the rent? And I might be a little populist, but the benches are empty, because Fidesz politicians refuse to come in for a debate like this, aren't they? That when they go home at night and turn on the lights in the apartment, remember the then,, 200,000 children who don't have electricity in their apartment. When you're in the papers about whether you need three bathrooms in a villa or five, it's not enough to have three, just remember the then, the 200 thousand children who don't have toilets or bathrooms in their apartment, and remember the 900 thousand apartments where children live where they have mold every day, they get wet, and they stink because of the leak. And I'll give you the rent reduction. Today, families owe more than HUF 100 billion to utility companies, and most of them owe over 90 days. You know, Secretary of State, today a family, 74 percent of the families can't afford an unexpected expense, this unexpected expense is 50,000 forints, potom 50,000 forints! [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: But a stadium must be built!]] And you guys can come in here with the rent cuts and all kinds of... They say stadium building behind my back, because I just can't control myself with stadiums because it's what we do in this country, and our kids, we talk about starving, starving, starving. That is why I will not be able to accept this account myself, and I believe that neither will the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-56	I now give the floor to Member István Tukacs for a two-minute comment.
u2014-10-14-57	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, What I have to say is not only the 2013 budget report, but what I see here in the Hungarian Parliament. There's a debate going on about the implementation of the 2013 budget, is it coming from government speakers? A few hours ago? that the Hungarian budget closed a wonderful year in 2013, and what do I need to see? On the one hand, a list of comments containing only opponents, and I see a pro-government representative sitting in this Chamber. [[András Tallai:]] Mr Secretary of State, if I may, I would not count on it, because it is your job to listen to this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I find this situation scandalous. In the history of the Hungarian Parliament, since the change of regime, it has not occurred that a budget report has been discussed in such a way that a government, let alone knowing, does not want to defend its position in this matter, is not present in the debate, and? If I may, Mr. President? I would say not only to this House, but also to the voters who follow us on television and radio, that this situation is unprecedented. Here we are, because it went down on 12 October, and on behalf of my fellow members of the Government, it seems to be all right now, there is no need to deal with Hungarian parliamentarianism, there is no need to defend their position on what is otherwise thought to be good. Mr Secretary of State has not responded to one comment yet, he has not bothered to defend the submitted report that opposition representatives are taking to pieces here during the afternoon. [[András Tállai: I spoke to him for 30 minutes. Don't get personal. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Was that a reaction?]] Mr President, forgive me for not necessarily talking about the subject, but I wanted to say at least this much in two minutes about the situation. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2014-10-14-58	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can only agree with my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs. Skandalum! So this is a scandal, a scandal between the walls of Parliament, because 15 socialist Members are sitting here, lurking around some other opposition fellow Members, but a fraction? Fragment! ? there is nothing that should be in the government benches, on the one hand; and, on the other hand, the State Audit Office is still here on its own initiative, outside the Secretary of State. Anyway, I don't want to say this, I just want to say that if you guys are so important, then you shouldn't be in your process, you know, in your everyday life, looking at people as stupid, you shouldn't be feeding them a lot of things that if you don't think about it, because you might not have time, because you're struggling to make a living with ten nails to make bread on the table, so I think you need to think about whether you're responsible for your assignments. Not for you alone, my fellow Member, I say, who is sitting here, no, you are an exception, the other one, and for some of my fellow Members. But let's look at the content, see what we look like about the budget in terms of closing accounts. Is this the realm of unpredictability, since seven times in 2013? In my memory, it's been modified seven times, seven times? , it has not been two or two months and the budget has been amended. Think about it. Where's stability, predictability? No, it's not, it's not predictable, it's vulnerable. They create the vulnerability of the people with newer decisions, which are basically just about you, yourself and your clientele, but not about the people, no, not about the ten million people in Hungary. Unsubstantiated, and I believe dilettantism is all you do. Yes, and why do I say that? I'm saying this because if we really think about what happened in 2013? But can we even look at the story from the year 11? Then we see that we are not able to take positive steps from the centre of Europe, we are able to move forwards, we are not, but we are either stuck where we are, or we are able to show downward trends and trends. The situation is not getting better, while families and businesses face more tax burdens. You can tell me anything, you can fool people on a temporary basis, and you can't do this forever, fellow Members. No, my fellow Members, I can't do this forever! You can lie in your nose and mouth, you can tell people everything they believe periodically, but sooner or later they'll realize that you're not representing them, you're representing yourself, and I'll say it again, your clientship. Families and businesses paid more taxes in 2013 than, say, the year before that, in 2012. If I say I'll give you a number, a heading that's over 6 percent more tax, then that doesn't mean anything, but if I say 6862 million forints more, then that's something. That's how much more money was taken out of the pockets of people and businesses. [[15.10]] During the performance of the economy, it decreased significantly compared to 2011. It's not a coincidence. You've not only made people vulnerable, you've squeezed businesses, you've put them against the wall. Remember, they made a labor code, where in everything, workers and their representatives were destroyed. I would add that there was little talk here in Parliament about the fact that businesses were also held against the wall. The only thing they've been given more with is the one chance they've got to skin another one of their employees. Well, that's your philosophy. As long as possible, they are deceiving their environment, both workers and employers. Three years, 2011, 2012 and 2013, this country's economic growth, do you know how much it was? With one finger, I can show you: 1 percent over three years; that is the category of immeasurable, nothing. This is what you brought to this country. I think you should think that if you really want to do something good, you should do something different. In the world of work? As I said in my two-minute comment earlier, they're trying to fool everyone. They only show statistical surfaces that make it seem like it's better. 200,000 public workers? Oh, a lot of people can't even do meaningful work? Are they themselves, or are they, in any case, ashamed of being of some level? Is it a non-living thing? income is obtained by the fact that they cannot put a product on the table; I have not spoken to such a person. People want to work, people want to do decent work, people want to make value. You don't even give us the chance to do that, but you're creating a way to deceive society. In the meantime, this is the two-thirds government? An example? He took away a third of the wages of the public workers. You know, in 2010, these people made 60 200 forints. Now it is worth 51,000 forints, but by 2010 the value of this money is 41-42 thousand forints. Well, there was an 18 percent inflation in that four-year period! You know, then, that you didn't give, but you took, one third of the wages of the 200-300 thousand public workers. But you have also done the same for minimum wage workers. Today, after four years, the minimum wage is worth less than in 2010. With 18 percent inflation, the value of the minimum wage is 55-56,000 forints. In 2010, it was 60 200 forints. Did they take 4-5 thousand forints out of people's pockets every month in terms of minimum wage? And they put posters in their noses and mouths? Has Viktor Orbán said in his process towards the world that the minimum wage is increasing, the minimum wage is increasing? She's a woman, the hell she is! The gross woman, after which the tax burden, the surplus has to be paid, is a woman, but in the pockets of the people to make a living, it does not increase, but reduces the purchasing power of these resources. But not just in terms of public employment, not just in terms of minimum wage. Think about what happened to the civil servants. In four years? Hasn't it ever been like this since the moment of the change of regime? In the course of four years, in the course of four years, the amount of civil servants' salary did not change by just one single penny: HUF 38 650 in 2010 and now in 2014. What the hell are you talking about? About what? They do nothing for people in this regard, lying to their eyes all over the place, while their wages for public workers, minimum wage workers, but also for public sector workers are falling. Are we talking about that year for civil servants in 2013? They're down by 4 percent, which means they're down by 4 percent. That's what your activities are all about. That's what we should be dealing with. Secretary of State, you can answer that in substance, factually. Definitely and factually! That's what we have to deal with, and that's what we need to change. I think, in addition to all this, everything you're doing? Do I give you an example? Through the Labour Market Fund, which is no longer a Labour Market Fund, I know, but a National Employment Fund. By turning the Labour Market Fund into a National Employment Fund, you took 10-20 billion forints out of the fund. Is that what made him national? So you're the ones who take down the national word, the content, by turning something from the labour market into a national, and taking tens of billions out of the fund? It's a shame. What if it's important? For me, but for you, too? not only in terms of words, but also in terms of content, it should also be done on the side of resources. And, you know, with regard to the content of this National Employment Fund, the central budget is interestingly drawing money from this declining, even from this decreasing resource content. 6,000 million forints were blocked, the central budget needed it. But not only did they support the central budget, the Pension Insurance Fund! You don't have to support it from here, no, you have to find the resources from somewhere else. Oh, that 300-400 million forints were scheduled to be transferred from this fund, and then three times that amount was transferred at the end? How does this work? I told you, it's dilettantism, it's unpredictable what they do. But I'll tell you something else about the Labour Market Fund, the National Employment Fund. In terms of discounts, you have allocated such an order of six billion forints. Nearly half of it was used against this money. What is the reason for this? There were no businesses to take advantage of that? Why? If the country is working so well and if contributions can be granted in respect of those employed by companies, why couldn't the resources shown in the plans be used, why couldn't the last penny be used in order to get more people to work? However, this is true not only in terms of contribution allowances, but also in terms of vocational training and adult training grants. Is there a 25 billion forint or perhaps even more? $27.5 billion, exactly? The total amount of this HUF 27.5 billion, about HUF 18 billion, was not used. Why? What is the reason for this? If the economy has the capacity to absorb employment policy, then there must obviously be a multitude of training courses adapted to the needs of the economy. This shows that there is no employment expansion in the competitive sector, let alone no expansion, where there is a decrease in places with more than five employees. You lie, you lie, you lie, you try to create a situation through statistics that denies it, you don't show the truth, you don't show the truth. I think it's unfair, I think it's dishonest. In terms of job search grants, Lajos Korózs talked about it. In 2010, it was HUF 137-138 billion. In 2013, 59 billion forints were planned and 51.8 billion forints were used while? And that's the point of what I have to say? employers' and employees' contributions were collected in the same way at the last penny, the same amount of money collected from working people and businesses, the same magnitude, about HUF 190-200 billion, and a fraction of it, a quarter, was used to temporarily manage the lives of a multitude of unfortunate people who lost their jobs until they could find a new job for themselves. What is this, if not an unfair, dishonest attitude, the taking of a helping hand? Is it the shortest duration of support in Europe three months? Have you been reduced to this from nine months? ? It's nothing anymore, it's not even interesting in this regard. And the fact that a start-up program was introduced is winter public employment before the elections? You know, you know? ! Do you know when they were teaching through educational materials for dyslexic children? ! I don't want to go into details through the drawing of little suns and clouds. So, it's a shame, and you guys don't have the blush on your face about what you're doing? [[15.20]] Oh, there's no facial redness? They don't come here, they don't want to face what they've done, what they've done? And they don't have an answer for all this? That's outrageous. And, of course, in terms of vocational education and training contributions? And you're gonna have to take it? There, some HUF 6 billion and HUF 6,000 million more were collected from businesses. Pick me up, they can pick me up! Tax revenue? They're good at that, of course. To take care of businesses, to take care of people? That's less like it. Unpredictable dilettantism, unsubstantiatedness, everything you do. Technically, all I'd like to say is that what you're doing is brutal restrictions. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The imposition of more taxes, increasing public debt, and then, if necessary, my fellow Members will tell me what is associated with everything else. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-60	I now give the floor to Member Gábor Harangozó István in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, [[Intervention from the lines of the MSZP: Dear Opposition Representatives!]] Yes, honourable opposition representatives, and we welcome both, because now the number of Fidesz MEPs has doubled, so both of them are Fidesz MEPs in this House. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has just said that the 2013 budget is unpredictable, unfounded and dilettant; I would also add that what has happened here in the last year is, in any case, rural destruction, as shown by the figures. Because, you know, the problem is not only that our country's absence from the European Centre continued, but despite the fact that you have spent a lot of billions of forints of money to deceive the Hungarian population? Do you know,, Hungary has been wallpapered throughout the country with better performance posters, spending massively tens of billions in public media to make people believe that things are going in the right direction in Hungary? But if we look at the numbers, we see something else. Today, we are not only further away from the European Centre, but we are also beginning to miss our regional competitors dramatically. Today, Romania and Bulgaria are also ahead of us in many indicators, which has never been the case before. You know, in addition to the fact that we are falling behind from Europe, we are lagging behind from competitors, at least as painful a process is that regional differences within the country and, worse still, the differences between these small regions are increasing. The gap between the poorest, most disadvantaged areas and better-equipped, better-mode areas is also increasing dramatically. By demanding more and more sacrifices from families and entrepreneurs living in the countryside, poverty has also increased, which is most affected by these backward regions and our villages. Today, thanks to this, there are close and even more than 4 million people living below the minimum living standards. And the smallest rural settlements are slowly becoming completely indestructible, and their development budget and reserves are being raised, while public services are constantly being dismantled. Unfortunately, it is a very good example of what is happening in the small village parts of Somogy County. When there are still periods in which the national average in some statistical indicators, say, is better than in the previous year, we also need to see that in small-scale areas, including Somogy County, there is not only any improvement, but the dramatic break-off continues to increase. And while rural life is not only more difficult, vulnerability is growing. For example, the National Land Fund, which manages land expansion for power purposes, has not only revealed that, on the basis of the report of the State Audit Office, the operation of internal controls at the National Earth Fund was only partially adequate for revenue and expenditure related to the National Land Fund. In addition, the State Audit Office issued a negative clause on expenditure on the National Land Fund, because 5.5 percent of the expenditure in this chapter, i.e. HUF 937 million 400 thousand, was not legal and were not accounted for according to the relevant legislation. In addition to the fact that this illegal expenditure of nearly one billion forints is outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to have something responsible named. You know, when at the National Land Fund, at one of the most important land lease applications and land lease applications, it turned out that the application system that they operate was not only an opportunity for abuse, but also a regular abuse? and is this also proven by prosecutorial documents that the application system has been abused? I can understand that this has not resulted, and the same application system is still going on, somewhere, knowing the Fidesz's thinking, because it was obviously for a fidesz interest, at the direction of Fidesz leaders. After all, the essence of this system is to have the little livelihoods in the countryside in the hands of those country fidesz potentates you're looking for. They get the land, they get the opportunity to make a living, and they can have it as a maid, as a public worker, as a servant paid by the state, to be employed as a servant in no way to the entrepreneur, and then these selected entrepreneurs will, of course, finance village days, bring voters, as we can see. And you're willing to do that, in fact, you're sending a message to the rural population that anyone who stands in line may have a small detail of this, or a drop of it, who doesn't, will be sued even for the small amount of money he has been able to farm, as has happened in Puppet County, for example, or for many other examples. But the fact that you can't account for one billion forints, how you spent it or spent it incorrectly, it can't be in your best interest to protect it any longer. So beyond that, this? I'm gonna say it again? It's outrageous, I hope you'll be responsible for this story. However, poor and dilettant planning is also demonstrated by the fact that 2 billion HUF has been allocated to the cost of measuring undivided land. It was a great propaganda that you will solve this problem now, and unfortunately we have to see from the figures you have submitted that you have spent just 379 million forints out of the 2 billion forints, which means that despite the great propaganda, you have actually done nothing to remedy the problem, and this remains a serious problem for rural farmers, which, thanks to this dilettant attitude, you have failed to solve last year. But this poor and dilettious design is also demonstrated by the implementation of the pig strategy. It was also a huge propaganda that the number of pigs in Hungary would be increased by a million, which would otherwise be necessary. So you planned a budget of HUF 2.6 billion? And what do we see from the numbers? It means that we actually managed to spend 82.6 million forints out of 2.6 billion. It is no coincidence that if we look at the additional numbers on the pig front, then we see that on 1 December 2013 there were 54 thousand fewer stocks than a year earlier, so not only could they not spend the money, but the strategy did not work either. What is most interesting, and perhaps if we want to appreciate not only the last year, but also the next year's budget, the most educational story is what happened in the pig business. After all, you describe that the VAT on live and half-carcases has been reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent, and that, as a result of this measure, this measure has contributed significantly to the whitening of the farm, increasing the competitiveness of the undertakings concerned, and encouraging the buying-in of domestic pigs in the manufacturing industry. [[15.30]] In Hungarian, this VAT reduction has worked, the VAT reduction from 27 per cent to 5 per cent for half-carcases and live pigs. If we look at this year's numbers? Isn't that part of the closing accounting law anymore? We see that this year it started to work, and there has been a long-awaited increase in pig population recorded by KSH. Moreover, in the opinion of the majority of the experts, it is not really due to the fact that there are more pigs in Hungary today, but to the fact that the smaller VAT has reduced the black economy and thus significantly more of the pig population will be declared, paying VAT to the domestic market. You know, this is important not only because VAT is paid afterwards, but also has very important public health, animal health aspects and effects on black employment. Today, the food industry is choked by the fact that 27 percent VAT is not only the largest in Europe, but there is between 0 and 9 percent VAT on basic food in Europe. A decent Hungarian farmer cannot compete with this, since those who claim the product they produce as a foreigner and thus claim VAT back, they paper it for a 5% cost, so their product is placed on the shelves. On the other hand, those who produce their products fairly, who receive a fair VAT on the shelves, have to pay the 27 percent VAT. There's 22 percent between the two. They cannot compete with decent farmers and those in the food industry. In addition, obviously, what is not reported in the VAT circle is not reported to the employees there, as where would the product be produced if it was imported from abroad on paper. So black employment is high because of this, and it is also a serious problem for food safety, because obviously they are not announced there. There's a reason why twice this year there's been an anthrax-infested meal. It is therefore unacceptable and incomprehensible that your representatives did not support even this week the reduction of VAT on basic foods before the House, and we are finally making the decision to make a single-digit VAT on basic foods in Hungary, like other European countries. Plus, I'm telling you, your shutdown bill says it's a successful strategy. I would like to conclude by saying several times that there is no strategy for the government. My feeling is, unfortunately, the government has a strategy. The strategy is that the government has given up on small people, has given up on rural Hungary, has booked that it cannot catch up with Hungary in the countryside, does not want it, does not particularly invest in financial resources, does not make any efforts, there are no operational programmes. Simply by means of a public employment, he somehow makes Hungary of the countryside annihilated. What is possible, for example, is given to local potentates and fidesz people by stretching the fields or even the tramps, and the others can simply go into a line of servants. Their strategy, therefore, is to give up the countryside, to give up the small people, to give up the poor people, as many politicians or backgrounds have said, that at least they can catch up with the better way of living in Europe, at least for them, because this is your voting base. With this policy, they will be able to take the two million people to the urns at any time, and the others will be able to get 70 billion public media budgets and giant posters to explain that they are better off in Hungary, and at least make sure that they do not vote. They're using it to secure their power. You know, the problem with this is that I started by saying that Hungary is already lagging behind not only from the European centre, but also from our regional competitors, and that people living in the countryside are living in hopelessness and vulnerability. This policy cannot continue, and we cannot, not only give our support, but we can only object to it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-14-62	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, on behalf of the LMP, in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I wanted to contribute or add a few more thoughts to Gábor Bellozó's speech. And that is because I think that, for the years before 2010, when the closure of the schools started, the disappearance of public services, there was a feedback from the MSZP government. Time will tell you whether you have learned from it or not, but it is certain that Fidesz is not the crime that the previous governments have done, but what it has not fixed.Before 2010, you promised small settlements to restore public transport and restore railway wing lines. Fidesz promised that the schools would be again accessible, and children would not have to wait in the small settlements at dawn for the bus to take them to school. What I am asking is that, after closing the public services that cut the future of small settlements, nothing has happened and nothing has been achieved. I am appalled at the fact that all the promises made to small settlements do not appear in the budget to any extent. There's no source in there that can help that. There are small amounts of money, a few billion would help, but we do not see the effort to recover these systems. One more thing I wanted to respond to is the words of my fellow Member Gábor Harangozó. To at least helping the wealthy. I don't know who we mean by wealthy, but what I see is that the middle class is pretty much gone. We are talking about the fact that you have eliminated the civil layer that formed the voting base of Fidesz. So I don't see families in the country who can take their children to the beach in the summer, I don't see people who might be able to ski, because all this is a memory of the past that there was a time when families had the opportunity to have a family life. The middle class is gone, and there are no more wealthy people to catch up on. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-64	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2014-10-14-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member Sallai, so that the story does not remain unsolved. 10 percent of the highest incomes received an extra HUF 500 billion. And what did the lowest incomes get? Plus tax charges. That's what this story is about. In addition to the brutal restrictions, people pay more taxes in general, the competitiveness of this country is deteriorating, our public debt is increasing, against that promise... Mr. Secretary, don't run away, listen to me. There is an increase in delays, the burden of families and businesses is increasing, forints are being damaged, loans are being increased, everything that Hungary has considered to be positive in previous years is being destroyed. And let's not talk about employment, because we've already told you about how and how things are copied. I just want to give you one more example, just to make the story tangible and plastic: in terms of wages. The situation was not rosy in 2010 either, the minimum living per capita was higher in 2010 than the minimum wage. I told you, the minimum wage was 60 200 forints, and the minimum salary was about 77-78,000 forints. Now it looks like the minimum wage, as I said, is worth 55,000 forints, even if we take it as 66,000 as it is, but if we count it back by 2010, it's worth 55 grand, and the minimum salary is 87 500 forints. The difference, you know? The difference is that while in 2010 the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage is 17-18 thousand forints, it is now 36 thousand forints. So it is precisely the people who live under the most restrictive conditions who suffer from this story. They always act at the expense of the less wealthy for you. They probably don't have the strong representation they can do on the other side. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You should change that. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-66	I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, on behalf of the MSZP, in a 15-minute time frame. [[15.40]]
u2014-10-14-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a moderate interest from the pro-government side, but I am glad that Mr Secretary of State is now not left alone by his fellow Members as he has so far. I'm not personal, that's a fact. Thus, last year's public finances clearly show that public debt is not on a downward path, with modest economic growth and temporary very low inflation, the nominal increase in government debt did not allow current priced GDP to grow and, in addition, the reduction of gross government debt in relation to domestic products. Here we do not mention that last year could have been worse because of the better productivity of agriculture due to the lucky weather, and then we could not have kept it, where the government debt increased to 88 percent compared to GDP, which was also a record in Europe, and it was also a record in Hungary. What would have happened if you hadn't had any luck, then how would you have fought the battle? 'Cause we know we fought the government debt last year, and we saw that the first Orbán government had this sovereign debt in shining blood, and then it was overcome, it grew from 76 percent to 88 percent, and then it ended up 85 percent. But how did 85 percent of this government debt end in proportion to GDP? With considerable creativity, I might say: in the days immediately preceding the end of the year, we also managed to artificially reduce public debt and the lack of budget. One element of this was to cut the balance of the single treasury account to a minimum, which represents the resources needed for the day-to-day operation of public finances, the private pension fund was violently nationalised, the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund was created, which drew nearly HUF 3000 billion and placed under government regulation, and this money has been constantly involved in the financing of public finances in recent years. Last quarter, only HUF 160 billion came from this. So let's think about how much the government spent in the first three quarters of the year, and then, for the last quarter, only 160 billion of the 3000 billion were left. The next trick is nicer. In the last days of 2013, some of the sovereign debt held by the two companies was returned to the Hungarian State for a few days, returned to the State Debt Management Centre, so they were not included in the books as a debt item at the end of the year. Thus, the debt of the central budget fell from HUF 22 728 billion on 6 December to HUF 21 999 billion in a few days, so that HUF 729 billion suddenly disappeared from debt, and then, three weeks later, on 24 January, this debt grew again to HUF 22 862 billion. This was because, at the end of the year, of course, it would have been bad in the books, and it would have been bad in the books that it was not possible to keep the deficit target, which we have already heard of, perhaps from Lajos Kósa at the time, that keeping the deficit target could not be a national interest, and I thought that it could be a national interest, but at the cost of such tricks we managed to keep it. We didn't owe any less, and I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that self-attack is much cheaper and has far less false forms. Try to do the right thing, you might be able to do the right thing. Thus, at the end of 2013, the gross government debt ratio was 79,2 per cent of GDP and then reached 85 per cent of GDP at the end of June 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, However, with regard to the development of public debt, it is necessary to remember two other government measures, which were designed to reduce public debt, but their impact was essentially only enriched by offshore companies, or legalised with state aid, and not necessarily legally acquired income. One of these measures was the introduction of the settlement policy. As is well-known, in December 2012, the National Assembly amended the Hungarian language of the third country: the entry into Hungary for non-European economic citizens and the residence and legislation on it, and made it possible to make their establishment easier for a special national economy interest. The basic condition of establishment is that a foreign individual or a company owned by it should purchase not a government bond of EUR 250 thousand, but from the securities of the company which has entered into a contract with the Government Debt Management Centre, which records them at a reduced price of EUR 221 thousand. a Hungarian government bond with a nominal value of EUR 250 thousand issued for this purpose. Therefore, Hungarian government bonds of establishment can only be purchased by undertakings that issue securities to applicants for residence permits accordingly. The latter securities must be held by applicants for residence permits in Hungary for at least 5 years. The company's approval was issued by the Parliament's Economic and IT Committee, so only those companies that approved it could issue such securities and write down such bonds to the ÁKK. These companies must conclude contracts with ÁKK Zrt. and agree on the placing on the market of Hungarian government bonds of establishment. These companies are typically registered in offshore locations, such as the Cayman Islands, Singapore, Liechtenstein, Cyprus and Malta, so these companies are not taxed in Hungary. The interested third-country national therefore walks into the company approved by the Economic and IT Committee and buys the shares or units of this company worth 250 thousand euros, plus pays 40 thousand euros for administration, thus far 290 thousand euros, of which the company will buy the Hungarian sovereign debt currently worth approximately 220-221 thousand euros, and in 5 years it will return this to the delivens in the amount of 250 thousand euros. It is interesting that the law does not specify what securities the intermediary undertaking may issue and at what price it may sell, but only the nominal value of EUR 250 thousand is fixed. The costs are determined by this company however you want, so this EUR 40,000 could be more. That's pretty much left up to the brokerage company to collect a lot of money from an applicant in exchange for his services. So it continues to show that in these companies billions of dollars of profits are being made for Hungarian settlements. Exactly how much depends on the company, maybe less, maybe more. Ladies and gentlemen, What does this construction mean for the Hungarian State? Because it is worth examining the interests of all three participants in this. The Hungarian State receives foreign exchange resources cheaper than it could, by means of bonds. This means HUF 1-2 million per year for a transaction, mostly or entirely; this is an interest advantage, by the way. However, it is expected that, taking into account the public services provided, the Hungarian State will not, in a net way, earn anything at the settlements, as it will also have costs of settling in here, compared with this year's large amount of HUF 1 million, which we can obtain as an interest advantage. So the end is what has been: Hungary doesn't earn much of anything all over the prince, but the intermediary companies make a lot of money on it. What does this scheme mean for the applicant for a residence permit? With the Hungarian residence permit, you can travel in the Schengen area without applying for a special visa for 5 years in the third country buying securities issued by the company buying the settlement government bond. In addition, you can stay without any time limit and engage in business in our country. The authorisation may be renewed occasionally for a period of 5 years. In addition, at the same time as the application submitted by the third-country national with reference to the existence of an interest in the national economy, the spouse, the minor child, is entitled to lodge an application for a residence permit for the purpose of family reunification. In their case, there is no specific need to demonstrate the existence of an economic interest. Any more family members? parent, brother, direct relative? may apply for admission and residence under the general rules for family reunification. In practice, this means that a large family will move into Hungary for the purchase of a single EUR 250 000 security. It is worth comparing this with what my fellow Members here said earlier about the difficulties of Hungarian families. Probably those who settle here for 250,000 euros, those families face other types of problems and experience today's Hungarian reality differently, and the Hungarian state spends as much money on them as on families who now lack much. [[15.50]] With the Hungarian residence permit, another 25 Schengen countries have 90 days of entry every six months, and in Hungary the person concerned has the right to access healthcare, education, employment and welfare benefits. So for 1-2 million forints a year, we not only open the gates of Europe, but they also have access to the domestic welfare system, who settle here. Given that a large proportion of Hungarian citizens pay more for similar rights in taxes and contributions, this does not seem to be a good business for the Hungarian state, it is a pity to create such a world, but it is an amazing opportunity for those wishing to settle in Hungary. Using the education and health system, the Hungarian state may lose more than HUF 1-2 million. What does this mean for the middleman? The intermediary company we still don't know what's needed? Do we have a company like this, a state company? He makes 70,000 euros each. But given the administration costs, there may be fewer, but of course there may be more. For a thousand people, that's 70 million euros. The EUR 70 million is HUF 20 billion. It goes in private pockets. That's a lot of money. In view of the press news about the interest in the settlement government bond, this does not seem unrealistic. In fact. Therefore, this scheme is not a good business for the companies authorised by the State, but by the Economic Commission. This is also reflected in the fact that public debt has still not reached a sustainable downward path. Ladies and gentlemen, The second was the introduction of the Stability Savings Account, which in financial circles is called a scheme where illegal income can also be legal with State aid. The financial institution shall not disclose personal data to the tax authority in respect of income thus legalised in the possession of the certificate issued, and the tax authority shall not act against any previous tax fraud. I think that's gonna get in the cash register, of course. And we have to close our eyes? Are you sure? I do not think that everyone who is being examined by the NAV would agree with this.I think that a lot of tricks, a lot of such measures were needed to keep today's budget in balance on paper. We are considering the budgetary impact of these two measures. For a sentence, of course, I looked at the social implications of this, but is there a debate about closing accounts? I can't pronounce the quotation mark next to the,, debate, because we're the only ones talking, the government side is silent so far? However, it is also worth considering the role these measures, whether they are self-confidence, or the possibility of resettlement for money or legalisation of illegal income, have inducing social processes that make this country truly uncredited and truly unlivable, because, by the way, finances generally make it so. We should be able to farm transparently. Do I think that once the weather is not good and agriculture cannot add as much to the annual growth of GDP as it did last year? which, by the way, the Minister of National Economy did not say at his hearing what he said to the actors in agriculture; of course, two months later, we realized why he didn't have a word for them? Well, then I guess it's just gonna be luck. It's gambling, it's a pilot's game, we're just talking about the lives of a lot of people here, we're talking about the livelihoods of a lot of people, and if you don't get lucky, then taxes will continue to increase, wages will drop, and more people will be in a very, very hopeless situation. I ask you not to leave this to chance, to use the budget reserve for what it is, not to build a stadium, but to turn it into unexpected events, there is enough of it, and there is plenty of stadium now. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP, for a two-minute comment.
u2014-10-14-69	My fellow Member spoke for a long time about settling down, and then we should also mention emigration. We haven't talked about it much. According to various figures and estimates, there are now about 500 thousand Hungarians out there in different foreign countries. Here it must be said that the second largest Hungarian city in the world is not Debrecen, since I am from Hajdú-Bihar, but in England. Here you have to ask why, if the establishment is supported in Hungary, the government does not support programmes or business development that could keep Hungarian young people at home. I'm from Kaba. Kaba is a settlement of 6,000 people. Kaban about a year? Did we get there now? 30-40 children are born. Last year, 48 young people aged 18 years and over checked out of Kaba for good, which means that Kaban is not imagining his life or leaving this country or fleeing to Western Hungary. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs intervenes.]] Basically, this government doesn't do anything else. [[Intercom from the benches of MSZP: Press button!]] He's just chasing our kids abroad because he doesn't want to be in the right line, he doesn't want to be a footman, he wants to study. [[András Tállai intervenes.]] And here I have to tell you again that you are the Alliance of Young Democrats? They're getting old, aren't they? They don't teach their children in this system. Unfortunately, I have to teach him in this system. Your children had the opportunity to go to college here and then find their way to their settlements. Today almost 10 percent of young Hungarian parents [[The president's ringing the bell.]] is abroad. That's what we need to figure out, Mr. Secretary. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: That's right! ? Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2014-10-14-70	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, for a two-minute comment.
u2014-10-14-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The only thing I wanted to respond to was my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, when this figure was said about the richest percentage and income differences, namely the effects of the single-key tax system. We talked about it yesterday, and yesterday was the question of VAT reduction, which was not supported by the majority coalition. Previously, it has been mentioned on a regular basis why the reduction of the rent is important for social support, but we hardly talk about how the introduction of a single-key tax has contributed to the need for these measures. I do not like to reduce VAT, although it is obviously necessary to reduce it to an acceptable level in the European Union, and I do not like to reduce the costs because it is the same here that if you consume more, the more you can benefit from these benefits. The reason for all this is the introduction of an unfair system of single-key taxes, and that is why I am sure that I will not be able to support the accounts of public finances, because the social injustice that it causes is unacceptable, and there is no way to restore a bad situation with subsequent additional measures. VAT reduction, the reduction of the rent is all a pipe end measure, and it does not treat the reason, that there is little money left in people, and it does not help those who earn less, but how measures can be taken to help them as a pretend measure, although it actually helps those who consume more. Unfortunately, the reduction in costs and all such measures do not reduce consumption, but help consumers using high consumption, and it is therefore the single-key tax system that should be fundamentally re-evaluated by the government. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-72	Thank you. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, It is certainly a forward-looking debate and a presentation of the future, as viewers may see that there is currently at least two thirds of the MSZP majority in the Parliament, and we hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. [[András Tállai: You thought there was, but there isn't!]] Mr. Secretary of State is proud to say that there is no television broadcast. It's okay, Mr Secretary, we will give our opinion, and we are sure that a large number of pro-government majority will respond to this. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, Indeed, 2013 was a year of declining real earnings, rising taxes, austerity, increasing public debt, weakening forints, hasty, unpredictable economic policy. People were getting more and more money, but they barely gave them back any of it. [[16.00]] So the budget was the state's pilot play, from which only those at the top of the pyramid could make a big profit. In my next speech, I would like to present to you, in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, that the quoted introduction, which was also mentioned in the speech, is, unfortunately, in this area as well. For the past four years, the victory reports of the Ministry of the Interior have been exchanged. In 2010 there was order in two weeks, disaster protection was made more effective, police and prison funding was stable, and the situation of law enforcement workers was satisfactory. Overall, Hungary is performing better, at least you claim. The textual justification of the 2013 management report also supports these victory reports. However, if we look behind the figures in the report, the cold reality unfolds in the face of the mythical world of government propaganda. The figures do not provide real guidance on the criminal situation in just one, but substantially, because the 2013 crime statistics show an amazing improvement. However, there are only new laws behind these positive figures that make a significant part of the crime no longer appear in the statistics. For example, thefts of less than HUF 50,000 were simply classified as violations and removed from criminal statistics. Believe me, fellow Members, stealing a countryman's bicycle is in many cases a greater loss than stealing a car for the residents of the Buda villas. This is a crime in the common sense of the word, however the laws are writhed in order to improve statistics. Unfortunately, people's daily experience is still that, let alone two weeks, but in four years, there was no order in the country. In the midst of widespread poverty, the rural Hungary is characterised by ever sharper social and ethnic tensions and increasing violence. In the most disadvantaged areas, small and large thefts, violence against persons and disorderly acts have become part of everyday life, which, in the absence of a complaint, are no longer reflected in the statistics. But not only the mass crimes that make everyday life miserable, but also the detection of high-profile cases is often delayed. It is also typical of today's media states that the fact that a bomb exploded in January at a busy point in Budapest in front of a bank branch has now become oblivious to oblivion. Although we have a high-priced counter-terrorism center, let alone unable to prevent the bombing, we still haven't been able to track down the perpetrators. TEK is less prominent in the persecution of terrorists, but it is also clear from the accounts that due to the protection of the Prime Minister, a significant amount of overtime has been paid to members of the elite. Of course, from the point of view of the ruling parties, the police are indeed fully satisfactory. In cases where pro-government politicians are involved, criminal proceedings usually do not start, reports are often rejected for ridiculous reasons. On the other hand, they act with great zeal in proceedings created for reasons against NGOs that do not please the government. They hold raids with a shocking demonstration without saving money and energy. While telling and describing how stable and balanced the financing situation of the police is, the staff is constantly struggling with the shortcomings that make everyday work miserable. The police budget is under-planned year after year, so it can only be operational with the interim resources allocated on a case-by-case basis. This makes it extremely difficult to manage rational, planned farming and does not provide a safe background for the balanced professional functioning of the police. You claim to have renewed the police. On the other hand, no systemic change, no substantial organizational development or modernisation has actually been implemented, and the same surviving structure is being operated. With all this, we're not saying there were no developments in the police department. Yes, it is visible, and it is also stated in the accounts that many EU development projects have also been carried out by the police. There were procurements of equipment, and the construction of the 112 emergency system is also approaching its completion. However, the replacement of the previously leased fleet of cars for own vehicles or the development of an emergency system for expensive money, which is highly criticised by professionals, with a number of technical problems, is not in itself modernisation. Modernisation would be through the introduction of a system of advances and salaries to reduce the vulnerability of professional staff, to recognise real performance and to encourage development. It would be true modernisation if the police's system of organisation was put on its feet from the top of its head if the police were to base the police instead of elite formations on the task of serving them in the area and providing assistance to Hungarian citizens and local police bodies. It would be a real achievement if, instead of the unconditional service of state leaders and the production of statistics supporting government propaganda and spectacular demonstrations of power, they created the foundations of community law enforcement, so that police can really deal with the elimination of everyday life-stricken phenomena. Another genuine modernisation would be if good pay would not only be a promise made in electoral campaigns, but a reality lived by law enforcement workers. In fact, it would be a great achievement if the police could deal with what they have to do, namely, the persecution of criminals and the maintenance of order. However, there is no sufficient number for this now, despite the fact that the police have indeed increased, because you have officially made the collection of money the main task of the police, despite the usual talk of the opposite. The accounts show that the e-toll payments are checked daily by around 760 police officers, providing continuous service. In doing so, the police contributed to the collection of nearly HUF 54 billion in revenue. At the same time, in 2013 the proceeds of the infringement fines collected by the home affairs authorities increased from HUF 6 billion to HUF 40 percent last year, above HUF 8.5 billion. There's a conflicting picture in prison. It can be said that, in particular, thanks to EU funds, there were real developments here, as well as progress in the area of internal care and employment for prisoners. However, all this does not change the tragic state of execution. The closure report also shows that the average saturation of bv institutions increased from 137 per cent in 2012 to 143 per cent in 2013. Although it was planned at the beginning of 2013, due to a lack of resources, the establishment of a new prison in Szirmabesenyö was not started. The working conditions and salaries of the Bv stock remain tragic, even as compared to other law enforcement agencies are dramatically low. The series of figures in the accounts clearly show that no progress has been made in this regard in the previous year either. You are also very proud of the new disaster management organisation system, which has been renovated by nationalisation of fire brigades. The conduct of the whole transformation and the current management of the organisation system, however, its operation raises a number of concerns. Consider, for example, the BM's big project, the disaster police program. What are the objectives of the programme? as a way of ensuring more proportionate territorial coverage and reducing response time? can be approved. At the same time, the programme essentially consists of the deployment of existing fire trucks and their personnel from the central barracks to the new precincts, so in practice the precinct has resulted in an undesirable fragmentation of equipment and human resources in many places. There are a number of missing supplies, which are a serious threat due to the ageing machinery park. Moreover, unlike the image suggested by government propaganda, in several settlements it was not about the creation of new firehouses, but only about the transformation, re-painting and smacking of existing public firehouses. In 2012, seven fire brigades, formerly in the form of public bodies, ceased to exist, and in 2013 the small-scale fire department also became a professional disaster control station. Overall, the closure report also shows that the Orbán government did not provide the economic and organisational conditions for the operation of law enforcement bodies at the expected level in 2013, and therefore the bill on the budgetary implementation of 2013 is not considered acceptable from this sector side. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-14-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Make it short. I would like to say to Mr State Secretary that MEPs do not go to Parliament because their meetings are televised, but because that is their job. If you looked around this House, you'd see that the baker on Zapor Street would have been fired from his job long ago if he was as involved in his work as your parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much. [[16.10]]
u2014-10-14-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Several people, and I think it is right that, last time, Member László Kiss raised the untenable situation here. What if you ask the question? And I'm a little bit, that's a good speech, and I'm thinking about this more than my fellow Member? What Parliament's role, meaning, is being researched today, not only in the world of practitioners but also in the world of science, I believe, and I say that perhaps the main role of Parliament in modern parliamentarism today is the public, that we decide on our most important legislative proposals only after a public debate. That is, we are discussing in public, we are mature, with a kind of involvement of the country's population. However, there are many kinds of conclusions to be drawn from these debates, such as how the government is willing to compromise in such a debate, how it can defend its right, how pro-government representatives can argue, how they can defend their right, and, at all, what is the opinion of the practitioners of power about the most important things in the country. What is seen in this parliamentary debate today? The opposition's argument, but unfortunately there is no debate, because the party does not argue. There are about 1-3 people in the 133 pro-government factions. Now we have reached the summit, and now there are four pro-government representatives in the Chamber. This allowed the total number of pro-government factions to exceed around 3 percent. In addition, the Secretary of State sits here relatively bored, who sometimes tells us a sentence about whether or not there is a television broadcast. But the fact that he's involved in the debate is not the case. I know, I know, Mr. Secretary said his opinion half an hour ago. It's just that, Mr Secretary, there is such a nature in the debate that if you speak before opposition representatives speak, you will probably not be able to respond in your speech to what we are saying. Right? I think you should see this kind of peculiarity of time loss. Obviously, you'll be able to say what you want in the closet, probably not responding to any of the suggestions that we've made, because you're not used to it. We've been getting used to this for the last four years. But perhaps you will, however, the debate will be quite one-sided, Mr Secretary of State, because in these cases opposition factions will no longer have the opportunity to react to what you say. So the debate cannot develop in its simple grammatical interpretation, because the house rules do not allow reactions to your monologue. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing in order to say that this is not primarily an insult to us, but to the approximately 3 million voters who voted for opposition parties. Not just for us socialists, but for the independent Members, the representatives of Jobbik, the representatives of the LMP. And these are 10 percent more than those who voted for you overall. The fact that you are now in such a majority in Parliament is largely due to the extremely unfair electoral system that has been imposed on this country. One thing is certain that at least 3 million people who have taken part in the vote are offended by the opinion that they wish and wish to say in this Parliament through us, you, they say, give a very big deal about it. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: This is about the 2013 budget. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hear it, and a good genre is yelling, although I don't really hear it. So at least my fellow Member is doing it louder so that I can respond if he refuses to press a button and participate in the debate. So, what I can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that I am not primarily interested in the authority of Parliament, which Speaker László Kövér is constantly talking about, but it is in the interest of citizens who are entitled to expect to receive answers to their arguments here. Well, ladies and gentlemen, so much for the nature of today's parliamentary debate. I think that everyone would be much more pleased if you were to present them transparently, but at least somehow you knew what you were thinking about what we were saying. Turning to the individual chapters of this bill, which I would like to talk about, courts, prosecutors, Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, as well as a few related topics, well, honourable Members, in this context, you, we can say now, state that HUF 3 billion has been damaged by the Hungarian taxpayers. At the time, a law was created to order the forced retirement of the judges, and it was quickly supplemented with another, where the same was done to the prosecutors. In doing so, hundreds of experienced prosecutors and judges were forced to retire, causing considerable damage to justice. This has been mentioned here in several cases, within the walls of the House, and I would like to stress, obviously, and here too, that the damage that has been caused is not primarily budgetary damage, but other types of damage to justice and people. But since we are talking about this aspect, let me talk about its budgetary aspects. Finally, thanks to your blessed activities, Hungary is based either on its own Constitutional Court or on the European Court of Justice, it is subject to an obligation of compensation for forced retirement judges and prosecutors. This means, therefore, that according to the law that you have presented, based on the last year, it justifies a payment of nearly HUF 2 billion for the judges, and nearly HUF 1 billion for the prosecutors. That's how much they pay to those laid-off, experienced judges who are entitled to do so. In English and translated, if this money is used and they are not forced to retire by paying their labor fee, and therefore the citizens get a job in return, then everything is fine. Well, technically, this is paid without work, and the judges who take their place will, of course, pay their dues. From this, it is very simple to conclude, honourable Members, that you have now caused damage to this country by the law of 3 billion forints. Tell me, please, where is the person responsible for this? Because I'd be very interested in that, Your Honour. I hope you will also address this in your long answer, in which you will give a detailed answer to our points. Where's your culprit? Where is your political responsibility, and where is your professional responsibility for paying this amount now, that you created a law that did not stand the test of constitutionality and international law in the EU, either at home or abroad? Or let's just settle for the fact that you guys were just trying. There was a bad attempt, it didn't work, so that's what it cost the country. But, of course, as usual, everything is not responsible. I note that, of course, this is about a thousand percent of what was done to Hungary by nationalising private pension funds, to put it simply: by stealing the money. I think we need to find out who's responsible for this mess. Turning to data on the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, I would like to read to you perhaps two or three sentences of your draft law altogether. The total amount of posting, representation and advertising expenditure amounted to HUF 453.5 million in 2013, with a 15 per cent increase in real estate expenditure and a 73.9 per cent increase in 2012 compared to 2012. I would appreciate it if someone on the pro-government side could give me a detailed description of what the posting and representation costs were for, and the advertising expenditures were almost doubled in 2013 compared to 2012. 'Cause this stuff is so generously silent about it. In addition, I read the following sentence, as compared to 2012, spending on the betting framework doubled in 2013. What, Mr. Secretary? Why? Or should this be understood as instead of the European Union...? Or would Western European heads of state, diplomats, officials be invited, now invite the same people from the East, and these authoritarians have greater luxury? Or why? 'Cause that's what this stuff that's in front of us is keeping quiet about. [[16.20]] I'm afraid there's either a reason or something even more unacceptable. Then I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary? And I'd like you to answer me in a way that we can argue about, so not in the closing, I'm gonna say it again, right now? The fact that the expenses of the consultancy fee and the legal assistance service were charged on the appropriations for the billed intellectual activity was HUF 674,7 million. The ratio of this is 22.3% of all real-estate expenditures. The performance increased by 19 percent compared to the previous year. First of all, I'd like to know why. Secondly, I'd like to know how to separate it from the numbers. How much of this was the advice fee and the fee for legal aid. And I would also like to ask you that you probably do not understand the free legal assistance service, the legal assistance service, but do understand something else, but let me know by the Secretary of State, if I am wrong. I'd appreciate it if I was wrong, because then it's a little less trouble than I'm wrong. Then, turning to government agencies, I would like to highlight from here: all short-term liabilities are HUF 17 billion and HUF 278.5 million, which represents a significant increase of 77.9% compared to 2012. Why? What is the reason for this? As in the previous year, the financial performance of the payment obligation was not or only partially fulfilled, having regard to the maintenance of the operational capacity. Well, Mr. Secretary, it must be understood that otherwise these offices would have been out of order, so it didn't happen? What kind of government runs the state apparatus like this? I would also like to ask that this sentence be understood, Mr Secretary of State, to explain further:, the priority was to ensure the provision of tasks, so some of the payment obligations could not be fulfilled by government agencies. I understand, Mr. Secretary, that this was a necessary step. I believe that where these sentences are to be written down by the government, it is a shameful budget and a shameful government. Finally, there are amounts that, when planning the budget for the last year, were clearly untenable. I would like to read just two sentences: the government has planned a total of HUF 120 million for compensation under the Law on Criminal Procedure in the last year, and the practice showed that HUF 325 million had to be spent on this. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, why this higher amount has not been proposed this year at least. Also about compensation for the victims of the crime: last year was 100 million, and this year's draft was the same, while last year's actual number was 181.2 million forints. The same can be said for legal assistance, where the government planned 115 million HUF for this, but in reality it had to spend 281 million HUF on it. I have before me the amendments 12415/502, 503 and 516 which I have tabled in the planning of the previous budget in order to correct these numbers. Compared to that, Mr. Secretary of State, what do the numbers now show? The fact that there was a difference of HUF 1-2 million in these areas, i.e. if my amendments were accepted, then the figures would reflect reality now, and we now again consider that, instead of the planned 120, HUF 322 billion was spent on compensation under the Criminal Procedure Act and HUF 252.9 million on legal assistance, also against HUF 115 million, but the same disproportionateness can be observed in the compensation of victims of crime. It seems, Mr Secretary of State, that you are, and are, playing tricks on numbers, rather than describing reality, rather than bypassing it from various considerations. I would ask that, at least in relation to these, if you are planning a budget for next year, you should finally consider reality and not a virtual number that is not due to the truth. Compared to that, ladies and gentlemen, am I not going to support it for my part? And I guess a lot of us are? This proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. I just wanted to inform you that, in order to resolve the dispute, there was a television broadcast until 16:00. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's okay, it's not for TV.]] Mr László Kiss is next for a two-minute speech.
u2014-10-14-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Just a few words on the issue of education, in which there is still something to say: the waste that characterizes 2013-14 in this area, and this, I think, is unprecedented. First, you amend the law on the textbook market, the point of which is that whatever can be a textbook outside the normal procedure, approved by the Secretary of State at the time, after which a family of textbooks will be issued out of state money, paid from the taxpayers', the Hungarian people's money. This family of textbooks practically allows the new textbooks to replace the old textbooks in Hungarian: from now on, you can put into the trash can the textbooks that Hungarian taxpayers bought for billions of forints and went to the school libraries. What happens now? Another year, the whole textbook market is being changed again, and another textbook family is coming in when the previous one can be put into the aforementioned trash can. It's a very rich country, so if you can waste it like this, you can think about it, and everyone can think that. The losses that have occurred in textbook poo have also cost this state billions. In the year 2013-14, you can say that you have crashed the children's textbooks in such a way that it was even expensive. Congratulations on that.
u2014-10-14-80	Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. Mr László Teleki is coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-81	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think everyone here has told me that there are very few in the benches of Fidesz. I have to add, too, that there is only one person missing: Flórian Farkas. I would be happy if you were here, because he was also given the 2013 source of accounts that we are discussing today, and I think it would be worth talking to him about the Roma in Hungary, even though we rarely hear it. In such a case, I think it is absolutely important. On the specific subject, I think that there is a great deal to analyse, but the only one is certain that the nationality policy that the government has put on its flag has not been implemented in 2013, at least budget figures do not reflect the possibility that it could have been implemented. It has not been realized because if we take into account the education, culture or employment situation of national minorities, we can see that the report is stagnating everywhere, and it contains stagnation on all sides where minorities, the source of ethnicities, and the column are published. Let me point out a few things in particular. When they talk about applications, their symbolic pen will be very nice and characteristic, and that is because, in the culture of nationality, they emphasize how much resources they have given to nationalities. I would like to point out that we are seeing worse results than stagnation, because the resources that are available to national minorities cannot sustain existing cultural associations and ensembles, but we can now see that there are no associations, ensembles that have been able to preserve culture that have been sufficiently aware of, in recent years, the characteristic linguistic features of traditional culture that are important for nationalities. Therefore, I think that when it comes to a culture of nationality, there are two things to talk about. Once on the maintenance of institutional systems, nationalities do not have cultural institutions that can maintain their ethnic culture. I think, first of all, that in Budapest, for example, you cannot see a Roma house that has become truly sustainable in the past, even though we have said so many times, and the current government, too, that we need houses where people can come together and deal with culture, learn and pass on this culture. Well, we don't see this today either, and I think that if we analyse 2015 correctly, we don't see lines in it that will be about this. [[16.30]] Therefore, the maintenance of the institutions, I think, is definitely a situation that should be improved. The only thing the governing party was paying attention to was to give Lungo Drom, the ally of Fidesz, 150 million forints to buy and renovate the headquarters. I think that the reason why we cannot accept this with democratic values is because we should think about the fact that there are hundreds of NGOs, national organisations on the Roma side and there is only one organisation, they give an opportunity for an association to jump out of the situation in which it is, although it has had resources from other sides, because it has been properly supported by politics so far. Therefore, I think that, if you look at the figures, it would have been important that the amount that was included in the budget would have been received by several national organisations that are already in public life today, and that they are very helpful to the Roma population in culture, education or training. Therefore, I think that it is anti-democratic to highlight one organisation at this level and put it at this level. I could go further than these programmes, and I would like to push the institutions further. This issue is not resolved at local level, and the budget was not managed in such a way that the accounts showed that it was spending on it. Let us say that at county level we also do not see the institutions where they can work, the organisations and associations belonging to the Roma or any other nationality that could perform the task for which they were created. I think that the state has a job with nationalities when it talks about it, and it must have a real concern about how important culture is in Hungary's diversity. In addition to remaining time for education and employment, let me say a few things about applications. In terms of applications, I think, in the light of the figures, it can be said that it is very nice to say that nearly HUF 500 million has been spent on culture, including training teachers and other programmes. Yes, but if we look at how much this amount can't picture the policy the Fidesz is saying, then we can see that nothing happened. I would like to return to the fact that you can see in the material who share this source. Well, please, it is also outrageous that there is only one organization among money-sharing organisations that may not be attached to a government party. Therefore, I think that I cannot see as legitimate the distributions of funds that are being made in this matter, because it is important that national minority organisations, not just national self-governments, as stated in the material, should be involved in the decision, but also in a wide-ranging decision by several county and national organisations that can ensure that legitimate decisions are taken with these resources. Therefore, it was not possible to accept those sources, not only because of the amount, but also because of the principle of distribution, and I would therefore consider both to be very important for the current government to change them sufficiently in the next period. Employment has been discussed today by many people. When I hear that the number of public workers has increased by 200,000, it is not possible to argue with that, because this is really becoming visible, but funding? The one in the accounts? And the numbers completely contradict each other. Here is Nándor Gúr, who is not in the room right now, that when we talk about 4:00 instead of 8:00 in public employment, of course it is the fact that the source that we see in the closing account was not solved by trying to pay 8 hours of wages, but on the contrary, this period has been halved in many cases, i.e. 4 hours of payments. Thus, it is natural that the number of people who are in public employment today could be pushed to 200,000, but the amount of the framework has not changed very much. Therefore, I think that we can continue to expect what could be seen in the ruling party's policy, namely that it wants to keep Roma nationalities in poverty, but also a lot of poor people in Borsod, Szabolcs, or any other county. We do not see from this accounts that it might have been something that would in the 2015 budget lay down and give us a directive that would give us the opportunity to eliminate the slums and those in poverty. We talked about slums more than once. We used to say, "Eliminate gypsy settlements." I think that this must now be abandoned, because now there are also non-Romas who live in extreme poverty. The question is that from the source we can see now, they want to plan for the next period to change. More than 200,000 Roma live in extreme poverty, more than 200,000 live in gypsy farms or in settlements where people can't live very well. Is that why I think so? I told you more than once, do I tell you now? That there can be no color for poverty. Poverty must therefore be treated in a manner worthy of a governing party, so everyone must be given the opportunity to break out. Everyone needs to be given the opportunity to reach a level that provides them with a way forward. This public employment does not give them the opportunity to break out of the slums. This budget closure also does not give rise to the possibility of education, in particular, for Roma whose family background does not allow them to provide adequate support for the parenting background in education. I am thinking that, as we read scholarship systems, we can see cruel, beautiful numbers, and it is true that the small numbers, let's say, from 2002 to 2010, are not even close, I think that is a very big problem, because in 2003-2004 we spent nearly 1.2 billion forints on scholarship programmes, and now you can see what amounts there are, and the problem is much bigger than it was. Therefore, I think that it is absolutely necessary to reform, to reform the source of education that can help those at a disadvantage. We're gonna have to stop here at kindergarten sometime. They promised, and they said that they would provide more quality accommodation for preschoolers. I think that it is impossible to see from this account that this would have happened, and it is even possible to say that there may be much less space and a place where children in kindergarten can really be kept where the parent is happy to leave them. As a result, I think that it is absolutely necessary to strive, and I would also point out that in the 2015 budget it is necessary to think about extending and changing the quality of the seats. I was in a kindergarten where it was very difficult for me to accept that children had to sleep there because of the smell of doh and other things in the room. As a result, I think that this must also be changed. If we look at the primary school system, I do not see the possibility that compensations can be found up to the first or fifth grade, which can be compensated to create equal opportunities for disadvantaged children at some level. Therefore, it can be seen that they want to save resources here, too, at this end. I would like to point out that saving resources here in the next 5-10 or 20 years will certainly result in the dedication of resources, because these people will be aided if we do not provide sufficient resources for education, especially for 1-5 graders. And after that, I don't see talent management for the 5-8th graders either. Talent care is needed because it is important to note that after 8th grade, children should not only be encouraged, and I am thinking again of the Roma in particular, that you have no further chance of learning, but that you should encourage the child to try vocational training, vocational school or move towards college and university. This possibility is not included in this accounts, because stagnating sources that are included in the draft law do not allow what I am talking about. I would not really like to talk about higher education, because I think that those who say that Roma do not have the self-consciousness to study in Hungary are very wrong, because you can see that there are a lot of Roma young people who have graduated in the last 10 to 15 years and have only one problem, namely that they cannot find a job. [[16.40]] They cannot find a job for themselves; if they are found, they will be sent to public employment and, of course, to public employment that cannot be made at all and can no longer evolve. Therefore, I think that the current government also has a job to do, and it should also have a job to put young Roma graduates in a position, because without it the national economy will not work. Last but not least, I think it is very important to highlight the situation of schools within education. Here I think that as soon as this programme started, I was very happy about it, and I said that this programme should really be appreciated, but now I see that this programme has neither the beginning nor the back, because there is no way to see where this programme ends. It is impossible to see who financed and how much he financed and how effectively these schools were financed. Therefore, the school program, which is talked about a lot and is very often included in all material, cannot be seen how it can implement itself and cannot be seen how children can break out of it in the next period. Therefore, neither myself nor the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the closing act, I think that it cannot support it because the shortcomings and stagnating sources that we can see cannot be supported when we say that Hungary is performing much better, and Hungary has proved much better that it is giving to the poor. This accounts isn't about that, so I can't support it myself. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-14-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. It's a two-minute speech. Congressman László Kiss, please.
u2014-10-14-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, In fact, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Benedek, in response to his suggestion that the tax burden on consumption is on him? Do we agree on that? in general, it can be said that it benefits consumers a lot, which we have already said in connection with the reduction of the costs, but this cannot be said with regard to the VAT on basic foods. Believe me, this House, the III. In the district, a number of desperate families have come to me in recent years who have asked me when there will be a world where meat is not only a Sunday guest, but that they can buy it. If we read the bill, we can see that there could have been a way for the government to do so in 2013 or 2014 - there could have been a way to reduce Europe's highest VAT on basic foods. The high VAT of milk, bread, meat and eggs affects not only the little man, but also Hungarian agriculture. It is wrong to think that we are talking about large consumers, we are talking about eating such products at all, that these layers, the little man of Óbuda, Hungary of the countryside, should have this product on the table; that it should not be a luxury to eat a little stew in Hungary with pumpkin cakes. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. Congresswoman Márta Demeter came forward from the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, 2013 was a year of declining real earnings, rising taxes, brutal austerity, increasing public debt, weakening forints, hasty, unpredictable economic policy. People were getting more and more money, but they barely gave them anything back. There is also a section of this extremely wrong economic policy that is perhaps less visible in our daily lives, but I think it is extremely important, this is security, and this is also the part of it that is related to the Hungarian Defence Office. It can also be seen from the 2013 accounts, but in the last few years we have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that it is clear that the Hungarian Defence Office is the government's stepchildren, because it is not only a residual principle that the government is managing this area in the budget, but it is consciously dismantling it over the last few years. Speaking of the chapter of the bill on the implementation of the 2013 budget, we can clearly see that the figures here reflect the continuing deterioration of the conditions and operating conditions of the Hungarian defence against the government's success propaganda. Here we can see the parameters and conclusions drawn from the achievement of only one year's budget, but, as I have said, these are the consequences of a policy that has lasted for several years and is extremely flawed. Defence is a national matter, and we believe that, and I would hope that the government and the defence authorities would think so, but unfortunately, neither the measures nor the numbers we see are evidence, nor even explicitly deny that the government would treat this area as a national matter. Hungary's defence policy must be clearly stable, predictable, professionally sound and responsible. One of these conditions is otherwise fulfilled, that is predictability. And why? It is clear that the state of technical equipment is deteriorating predictablely, that the life and working conditions of soldiers are deteriorating predictablely, and that, based on the experience gained so far, it is also predictable that ad hoc solutions and procurements will continue to represent the Orbán government's defence policy. Let's see some data. In recent years, the government has reduced its budget to a historic low, which was never below 1.1 percent of GDP before 2010. Between 2010-14, however, was the defence deprived of a total annual budget and the government? otherwise in an extremely cynical way? it promised to maintain this incredible low budget rate, which did not reach 0.8 per cent of GDP. By the way, I would add that this could be done only by tricks, because this year the Hungarian Defence budget has not been reduced, because the Honvéd Hospital has become a military element, and the minimal increase in OEP support in this regard has precisely compensated for this number, but it has been a tricky one, which we can see from the government on a daily basis and in all areas. Government behaviour in relation to the defence budget is very serious irresponsible, and this will also take back the possibilities of developing the Hungarian Defence Service and improving its operating conditions for decades. I would think that the changes in our security environment may be somewhat incentivising the government to reconsider its policy so far, and so far we have not seen any evidence of this, but I think that we can hope that this may change in the future, because the government had a promise to increase the defence budget annually by 0.1 percent of GDP from 2016. We have also heard promises made by Viktor Orbán to move this forward, but we still believe that a substantial, immediate increase is necessary, and that is: from 2015 onwards at least 1 percent of GDP must be raised to the Hungarian Defence Fund, which we consider acceptable. I would also like to mention the situation of the stock here, as it is due to the fact that the living and working conditions of our soldiers and defence workers are extremely difficult, in a very difficult financial situation, although they are otherwise doing excellent and high-quality work, and therefore deserve real respect, not constant deterioration of their financial conditions. After all, since 2008 the civil servant's salary has not increased, it is still HUF 38 650, prices are constantly rising, we can see that in Hungary there is a record high VAT rate of 27 percent; and this makes it harder for them to make a living every year, even though they are the ones who guarantee the safety of our children, families and Hungarian citizens every day, and they have chosen this as their calling for life. Moreover, the deterioration of their living conditions is supported by the numbers, as we can see that there is a huge fluctuations within the army and it is accompanied by a decrease in numbers. The number of soldiers has been decreasing continuously for years, with 482 officers in 2012, with 182 officers and 495 crews, and a further 391 soldiers in 2013. [[16.50]] I would add that the wallet probably doesn't even consciously try to fill the number. This is, moreover, referred to by a conclusion in the accounts that the appropriations resulting from the incapacity of the number of staff and from the savings of benefits outside the wage were used in the chapter to cover the priority tasks. Another striking figure is that in 2013 only HUF 5.2 billion was spent on development programmes compared to HUF 5.5 billion in 2012, so this shows a decrease. The share of personal benefits, operating and development expenditure is 44 percent, 40 percent and nearly 15 percent; this last one, which is development expenditure, has already included the Gripen programme. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that the new national military strategy adopted by the Orbán government has set this target at 40, 30, 30 percent, so that we are very far from it. If the government continues to do so, it will continue to deteriorate in the future, and we will never achieve this goal. So it seems like an absolute illusion. And by the way, it should be added that the most dramatic figure in this accounts is that it is a dramatic loss of wealth and amortization that we can see from the numbers. The chapter wealth decreased by HUF 20.4 billion compared to the previous year, and the proportion of assets described to zero is almost 30 percent, which, by the way, indicates the ageing of the assets associated with the task. I must add that in the previous closing account, in 2012, this ratio has not yet reached 21 percent. And under these circumstances, Csaba Hende talked about the need for re-arming, and under these circumstances it happened that the state-of-the-art barracks of the Hungarian Defence Service had been handed over to the Counter-Terrorism Center, and otherwise it appears in these circumstances? And it happens, unfortunately? to degrade helicopter capacity, transport capacity and combat helicopter capability. In these cases, may I draw attention to him? I mean, have we been doing a lot of helicopter shopping lately? that there was also a multi-party consultation in 2013, in which there was an absolute consensus on the need to acquire helicopters, it is necessary to maintain this ability. However, no substantive progress has been made since then. Did the Minister promise? And I'm really sorry that she's not here, and we can't discuss this in person? To prepare the helicopter tender before the elections, it will be issued, and after the elections, the new government will be able to make the decision and get the new machines. Compared to this, all we could do was trick with the letter of the law, two days before the election we managed to obtain three old Soviet MI-8 helicopters. I think that we do not need such ad hoc solutions, but also meaningful, predictable steps in this regard. That is why we have drawn attention to it, and I would like to say again that we need a national helicopter fleet in which helicopters can be provided to the Hungarian Army, as well as helicopters for air rescue and for the police, as this is the most economical way to get the most economical. Such a procurement process must be transparent, coordinated, and not with such ad hoc purchases, that even the then president of the Defence Committee should be informed by the Minister of the fact that this has happened one day before the arrival of the machines. That's definitely not acceptable. I would also like to highlight the blocking, since again this year, a blocking was announced from the defence budget; this is more than HUF 3 billion. I have asked the Minister a written question, and he has given me a very provocative answer on this, in which he wrote that the portfolio has drawn up its proposal in this regard without prejudice to the management of defence organisations. So, I take it that this is an attempt by the Minister to suggest that this more than 3 billion forints may not be withdrawn. And what we're seeing now is that the closing account shows that the 4.6 billion that was locked up the other day from the military budget has been withdrawn, and every year that's blocked will be withdrawn. I think, when we talk about all sorts of improvements here, and they will promise, both the kind MPs and the Minister, to improve the operation of the defence, the living and working conditions of the soldiers, then perhaps we should not start these things by blocking them. Forints 648 million forints was the income of the sale of the incurrent assets, which, by the way, is little compared to the fact that we hear from the defence political leadership that further improvements can be made from these sales. Do I also think that the Honvéd Chief of Staff has introduced a complex austerity package in relation to the Hungarian Defense? Does this mean, among other things, reducing the cost of training events, limiting paper usage and all the things that are otherwise part of the daily operation? , and the total cost of training tasks was HUF 10 billion, which we also lack. It is very talkative that the Hungarian Football Academy received the HUF 50 million grant from the Ministry of Defence in 2013. Compared to this, the Social Policy Public Foundation, which, by the way, should support families in difficulty, was also around HUF 50 million in support. So I don't think it's appropriate for the Ministry of Defence to spend on soccer when there's another place for this money in the defence, just so that he can contribute to the Prime Minister's hobby. And while we're at it, we've seen that soccer has been supported in other ways by the defense political leadership. Namely, the Gripen fighters crossed over the Fradi Stadium's opening ceremony, which, by the way, the audience couldn't see much of. So I think that if the Hungarian Defence Force is used for political propaganda, this cannot happen in the future. And I would like to add that I am not sorry for the flight from our pilots, because under extremely difficult financial conditions, they rarely have the opportunity to do so. It is clear that we have a place in NATO, and so does the Orbán government. We have put forward a proposal for a decision, which is, by the way, about standing up for the EU and NATO values; of course, we look forward to this being supported by Members. With regard to NATO, the only reason why the country is highly appreciated and the only reason why we do not receive continuous criticism within the federal system is because our soldiers have excellent performance in missions, extremely good skills, excellent training; this is the experience that you will be able to use at home. I think that this is the only thing that keeps the spirit in this, and it must not be forgotten by the government that, in this way, it must, of course, appreciate the stock. So, overall, the government has put the defence in an outrageously bad position. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This is reflected in the accounts and we expect them to improve the situation substantially, but because of these figures, because of bad political decisions, we will not support this part of the accounts either.
u2014-10-14-86	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker, also from the group of the MSZP, is Mr Dezső Believer, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-87	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! In the interest of climate protection, the UN Kyoto Protocol has introduced quota trade for trade in so-called greenhouse gas emission rights. If we want to translate this into its common language, we are actually talking about the so-called CO2 emissions. This can be expressed in quotas, and the country is in a lucky position to have a significant surplus quota in Hungary. [[17.00]] Thank God, this excess quota means that we have money without any expense, and we can use it in everyday life. I have examined how this quota has been used in recent years by the always current government. We first used such a quota in 2008, and then a decision was made by the then government to use this quota for what is recorded in this Protocol, to introduce measures that allow this so-called greenhouse effect to be reduced, to reduce CO2 emissions in some way.In 2008, the first such sale took place, and the result of the decision was what we all know to be the panel programme. The decision was made to significantly reduce this specific CO2 emissions by renovating housing. I have examined the circumstances and how they did so in 2008, and I think that if we look at how they did so after 2010, we will see instructive figures.In 2008 we sold 10 percent of the 165 million units of quotas available to us at a quota unit price of 13 and 14 euros respectively. Is this what we're gonna do if we convert it to forints? I think that's the easiest thing? That's 40 billion forints. This was the basis for the panel program in 2008 and then for three years later. Within the framework of this programme, but I believe that this is a significant renovation of buildings known to many people, there have been renovations, and as a result, this certain CO2 emissions could also be reduced.292 thousand apartments or residential units have been renovated during this period, and if calculated, this means an average of 97 thousand apartments per year. If you think about it, if you look at the number of people who have had a new opportunity and lived in more comfortable conditions, you can see that this is a rather significant number. 35-40-year-old buildings? which at their age, when they were built, were considered state-of-the-art, since families who moved into these panel buildings mostly moved from untimely, uncomfortable apartments to all-comfortable apartments with toilets and bathrooms. So it was a modern decision then, but 35-40 years of use required that these buildings be renovated. So, as I mentioned, from 2008, 97 thousand apartments were renewed and renewed from this quota.In 2011? Are we after the change of government? This number is 4,000, 4,000, versus 97,000. In 2012, this number was one thousand. What could have happened? 2010? Is this official data? During the change of government, the Bajnai government handed over a HUF 300 billion quota. Based on the SAO's data, I can indicate that in 2011 and 2012 nine applicants also turned to the country, would like to buy a quota, and made an offer of EUR 9 and EUR 10 respectively. For some reason, it will certainly be possible to find out later, then the country or government did not make use of this opportunity; unlike what happened in 2013, because in 2013 we sold quotas at an absolute low point, since then, and before that, it has not happened at a price below EUR 3. I suppose you have these numbers I mentioned earlier, and why. After that, the cost rose by 50 percent. The reason for this, the dilettantism, the incompetence, the neglect, or something worse, is obviously not decipherable right now. But only because of this, HUF 5.4 billion was lost to the country. And now I'm not just asking for the 5.4 billion forints? Although I think that some of us here could spend this 5.4 billion forints probably for very useful purposes? It's because it didn't allow any more apartments to be renewed. So tens of thousands of our citizens have fallen from the possibility of modernising their homes; and if we think about it, the real reduction is when we consume half as much, and if there is even a reduction, we pay half as much, then I think that it is a really sensible solution. Tens of thousands of our citizens have fallen from this opportunity because we have dealt with this in a careless way. The other, and it is also a very important issue, is that not only citizens have fallen away from this opportunity because we have been irrationally farming, but also entrepreneurs. There are a large number of entrepreneurs who employ tens of thousands of people who could have done these renovations but could not. I believe that these figures also prove that if we talk about the year 2013, it can be said that in this small section of government, too, the government acted in a dilettant manner, made misguided decisions, making tens of thousands of families uncomfortable. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches. Mr István Tukacs of the MSZP Group will be followed by a regular speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-14-89	Thank you very much for the opportunity and the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, At a time when we are debating the budget report, i.e. closing accounts, it is worth returning a little to the history of budget planning, in Hungarian to the very dubious story of how our country's budget was planned in 2013. Let's just liven up a little bit. At that time, the government and the majority of the government announced that by mid-year, they wanted to accept the main content of the budget and its corner numbers, so the most important figures. At that time, we heard a thousand and one arguments in addition to what a good method it is. That's not how it's been before, but it's gonna be great, 'cause that's how you make a good budget. I'm just saying in parentheses that I think the financial apparatus ripped his hair and drove him into despair with this method, because making a budget in the middle of the year and in the middle of the year is not necessarily the top of the profession, because there is no basic data available. Despite this, however, the then government and the majority of government insisted on this solution. We have heard many, many arguments as to why this will be good, such as the fact that it now gives security to all those who are bound to budget management, because they will already know the main figures. It will be very good, because it will create stability, it will be very good, because it will take work off Parliament's shoulders, because it will already adopt corner numbers in the middle of the year, so almost budget, and so on, and so on. I don't have to say it, because we all remember it here in this House, but I suppose those who monitor our work remember that it didn't. Parliament has accepted corner numbers, but it turns out they're worth as much as the paper it's written on. There was no other reason for this method than to prove to the outside world, especially EU partners, that we will have fiscal discipline in this country, and therefore the government can count on the support of its partners in the EU. However, the further history of the budget was worse, as it turned out that the corner numbers were not true either, they must be rewritten, and the internal content of the budget was designed in Hungarian, and the individual chapters were designed in rather chaotic conditions. Items have been entered and removed, modified, a set of ideas formulated, last package of modifications submitted by the government, produced by kilos of paper. I am not far from reality if I say that there was no man in this House who knew what he had pressed the yes or no button in the final form of the budget, obviously according to his party position. [[17.10]] This, because I mention this process for a reason, has resulted in the budget yelling that it's unplanned. I'm screaming that you may have decided some of your items. Where revenue items were not designed with 90 or some percentage accuracy, as the performance reveals, but are very, very far from the actual figures, the revenue figures from the plans, they prove that budget planning had nothing to do with reality, it had nothing to do with life in Hungarian, the reality that the Prime Minister has recently been fond of mentioning, but that the budget was designed in such a way that the paper could bear. Whatever the paper needs. What's needed, let's write it down. If something wasn't on the expense side, we wrote a number on the revenue side. I say the term "" we wrote" in plural because, after all, the whole parliament is responsible for the country's management, while I say that these numbers were taken out, placed and modified by the government side, as it pleases, until the last moments. In Hungarian, there was no budget until the middle of the year, but there was hardly any budget until the last days of the year, and this budget was planned without a thank-you relationship with real fulfillment. That's one of the things I'd like to say. The other thing is that at the time we debated whether those basic data, HUF/euro exchange rate, government debt, government deficit planning, economic data planning, were on the right foot and would be so in Hungarian. Well, I didn't! It was not so, because it turned out that this budget had to be amended in many respects until the last moments. I am not saying this for nothing, this House, that the budget also had to be amended at the stage of its preparation, because I would first like to talk about what the budget amendments meant and what they were. Although the budget amendments that have been put on the House's table have always come to us with the justification that this is a kind of technical transaction, since a few billion do not divide or multiply for technical reasons, does not change the condition of the budget. But in fact, it always turned out that it wasn't a technical issue, it was a serious issue of money, or it was because the budget was badly planned, or it was because the government had pushed something off on this issue, or it was because someone needed something. So that last sentence is not a riddle, I'll tell you what I mean. I'm sure you'll all remember, in addition to budget planning, the shameful and shameful history of savings cooperatives. How to take a cooperative, small investors and small owners-owned savings cooperative sector and a Savings Bank from those who own it. A forced nationalization, a recapitalisation, and then a re-enactment to friends. Because that's the story in a nutshell. No more, no less, no less. In the case of the Hungarian budget, the majority of the government assisted this whole shameful process. What happened was that by law the state nationalised this sector and its bank, the Savings Bank, then came up with specific rules for its operation, integration organization, only the basic rules that can be voted in favour, and so on, when nationalization and the laying of rules were laid down, and quite simply, publishing this in advance, of course? If he wants to privatize this, why do you have to take it into government property, I don't know? He passed it on to people who were midwives around this sector from the beginning of the process and around the conduct of the process. When amending the budget, when it came to the need for some kind of money for this transaction, the majority of the government had a courageous heart to address the issue of amending the budget. He didn't ask me what he would have asked, no one asked me if it was okay, no one said anything to reason why it had to be like this. Moreover, the reasons they had formulated turned out to be not true. It was argued that the savings cooperative sector was in a poor financial situation while not in it. That these snotties are mismanaged. They don't do bad farming. Some simply wanted to do so, they did, as we can see from a number of government maneuvers not only in relation to the budget, but also in others. I therefore believe that there were three reasons for amending the budget: poorly planned budget, austerity conditions, sealing, and that when someone needed something, it could also be played through a budget. I put it in my pocket. Did I take it? quote, citing non-existent government resources, who, of course, will not respond to that. Just as the Secretary of State Fónagy, whom I admire, said in the nationalisation that the state company Posta buys itself or enters into the ownership by law because the Posta and the savings association have a fruitful relationship based on old-fashioned traditions. Which, let's face it, is hardly a professional argument, with my respect, of course, to the Secretary of State who is not here. Well, so we see this very interesting situation in budget planning when there's money for everything we want, while explaining why there's no money for what we need. Why aren't there a few billion or a few hundred million asthmatic children? 'Cause there wasn't really an answer to that either. Why isn't it that the poor unemployed don't get out of care after three months? Why is there no source to create at least the minimum conditions for living, healthy and healthy health care? For example, why should a family doctor beg to do something about it? simply this card money can't function and exist normally! And I could also list the items on which the opposition to the criticism of genders got round pretzels, when it turned out, and now I'm leaving this obligat stadium business, but it turns out there's money for everything. There's money for savings cooperatives, there's money for gas storage purchases, there's money for MOL stock purchases; there's actually everything, but there's nothing to spend money on in the public interest, because there's an urgent need. I would not continue to list the badly planned lines of the budget because my fellow Members did so in front of me. They have done so before me to list various issues of higher education, public education, health care, social sphere and development. And I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I find this debate not only regrettable and shameful today; the debate is again being asked to be understood in quotes. 'Cause there was no argument. For the first time in Parliament's history, when discussing the budget report, the government did not have a say in this debate, in addition to the mandatory keynote speeches. He had nothing to say. There has been no comment from any government representatives, except the keynote speaker, of course, to say, please, I want to, and I can protect this report. He didn't want to argue about this situation. He said it was either cowardice or otherwise cynicism. If you want to say so, my honourable opposition friends, tell me we don't have an opinion on this. The representative of the government is sitting through this debate without having anything to say to him, except for the pictitious comments that he is sending in masks to the opposition representative who is speaking. Which isn't a parliamentary genre, let's be honest. Therefore, when I talk about the criticism that we have made about planning, meeting the 2013 budget and the political objectives that the government has set out and what we think we should be doing about people on minimum wage, employment, education and health care, I think that there could have been some kind of fruitful debate about this. We are on the verge of planning the next budget, so it would not have been very useless to talk about what would happen then to the goals that serve our country in a budget. [[17.20]] Is that why I think that today's line of comments? 'Cause I'm not gonna call it a debate if you let me? He only proved that the majority of the government didn't care. I do not want to refer back to the circumstances under which the budget was adopted, but I do say that when, let us say, on 22 December, there was no man who would have told us what amendment was adopted and what its content was and how it affected the budget, or what is in the final version, I also say that he is not particularly interested in completion either. No one wonders why, if consumption increases, the taxes on consumption have decreased compared to planned. No one wonders why the taxes, which are supposed to be beneficial, were not desirable at the time. No one wonders whether when contributions are shown to be paid and no payment is made where this would be desperately necessary, then why is that? No one but opposition representatives is asking for this. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to be rude, I do not like to be rude, but I must say that the end of this debate is closed, if Mr Secretary of State is going to do so, I will not wait. I'm not being rude, I just think it's kind of in the way of the gesture that you didn't speak here. If you only want to end the debate? If you want to, Mr. Secretary? To give you an opinion, I don't want to hear it. I believe that the opposition has done its job in today's case, and that was what it could do. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. I would like to talk to you about the waste management system, the environment and the grass. The Hungarian waste management system is considered to be well functioning and an important part of environmental protection. That is what the Minister said in his reply to one of my questions. I always wonder if the system where disaster management is coordinating garbage shipments in more than a hundred municipalities from 1 July is working well. Is the system in place where the public is slowly unable to pay the waste-delivery charges, even in the face of a reduction in the amount of waste? During the municipal elections, Pakson, their Fidesz MP, said that there was an urgent need to do something with waste delivery fees, as Paks has doubled, and there is very little reduction of the rent to enable people to pay. It is true that you do not argue with us here and do not discuss these issues with us, and I hope that you will at least discuss this issue with your own representatives and mayors. It was the TÖOSZ, in which many mayors with fidesz sit, who said that this waste management system is not good, give them more opportunities to price, because in this way, they cannot slowly look their own population in the eye. The significantly increased product fee, when only a quarter of the amount received was used by the government to improve domestic waste management. Meanwhile, the new and completely wrong legislation and the populist reduction put the domestic waste transport public service at significant risk. Most companies are close to bankruptcy, which we can't prove better than that fact? Like I told you? that in more than a hundred municipalities, disaster management already designates the service provider. In addition, forints from the deposit fee were not used to support businesses and municipalities in distress. The reality is that most of the public and municipal waste management companies are already unable to pay the waste disposal levy because of the poor and failed system. The main reason for this is the loss of electricity due to the reduction of costs for them, and the fact that people really can no longer afford to pay the waste fare. You have frozen the landfill contribution in one of your submitted salad laws at the 2014 level, but unfortunately that is not the solution. As I said, the companies have never been able to pay for this, so freezing it on the 2014 level is definitely not the answer. So they can't improve, but they don't have enough money to maintain or maintain the system. The majority of service companies continue to live up to their final reserves today. This, however, puts the whole sector in jeopardy, losing the service and losing hundreds of jobs. And I'm not just saying that, as I said, but professional organizations and TÖOSZ. You planned to collect HUF 60 billion from the environmental product fee. This means a seriously increased environmental product fee. This should have been used for prevention and environmental protection programmes and prevention. Out of the planned 60 billion, 48 billion were actually made, 12.6 billion were spent on the National Waste Management Agency, and the rest were absorbed by the central budget. Then is it really important for you to protect the environment, to transport waste, if most of the money from the product fee is absorbed by the central budget? Is it so important for you to protect the environment and waste management that you do not address the problems of your own mayors?It was 46.1 million forints that could be used in your 2013 accounts for the removal of ragweed and the detection of infected areas. They were lucky, the weather was rainy, so the allergics didn't suffer for just a few weeks more from this concentration. You're not responsible for the rest of the summer, you're not responsible for the three-time pressure that has been imposed on the community service program. You don't have to make money, you have to map it and prevent it. It's not punishment, it's prevention. But how can you be trusted by honest, conscious citizens, even in 2009? Like I told you yesterday? 1 percent of their taxes offered were spent on something completely different? In the 2009 tax year, taxpayers were able to offer 1 percent to fight the 1 percent of our government's flagship, and our government made this decision. We had 177 thousand honest and solidarity partners, taxpayers, who thought this was the most important thing for him. They offered 1.1 billion forints of 1 percent of their taxes. As I say: In 2013, HUF 46.1 million was spent, and you envisaged this. You didn't spend it on this, but, as we know, you bought an SUV after the ragweed season in October. It would be 1200 forints to map an area infected with acre of ragweed. I can't imagine what 1.1 billion forints would have been enough for. Instead, you spent it on Sziget Festival, Ministry Offices and severance pay, and, as I said, SUV shopping, which you managed to do just after the grass season. Our government has always taken this problem very seriously before 2010. He spent more than 2 billion forints a year on reconnaissance programs and really on de-graining programs and supporting active civilians. We did not want to improve employment statistics. Please put all waste management systems in order, and really take environmental protection and protection against ragweed seriously. They still have next year, and the next three. If you take this matter a little more seriously, then in four years' time, you will be able to look your mayors in the eye in the next election, if you can fix the waste management system, which is now suffering from all municipalities, the population and companies. Thank you.
u2014-10-14-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, This brings to an end the speeches made in advance by Members of Parliament. There will now be repeated speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, 2013 was a year of declining real earnings, rising taxes, brutal austerity, increasing public debt, weakening forints, hasty, unpredictable economic policy. People were getting more and more money, but they barely gave me back any of it. It worked a little, dear House, the government, like some kind of reverse Robin Hood, giving to the rich, taking away from the poor. So the budget itself was the state's pilot play, from which only those at the top of the pyramid made a large profit. This was also evident in the area of national policy. [[17 .30]] However, before I go to these chapters, I would like to thank the ethnic advocate for his productive participation in this debate. I've come from a district, a settlement called the III. from the district, where ethnic authorities, ethnic associations, play a very important role in the cultural and political life of the district, and as a national politician I also believe that Hungary cannot succeed without nationalities that are proud, self-conscious and organised. I therefore believe that the presence and excellent comments of the advocate in this debate have been very productive. I'd like to thank you for that. If we look at the individual chapters, we also see in national politics that, according to the classic old Hungarian saying, among the many midwifes, the child was lost. Therefore, appropriations where some money was hidden in this area could be classified for a little while. The first is the chapter of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. Under the title 'Support for National Policy', the bill accounts for approximately HUF 3.5 billion in expenditure. Interesting is this duality, it shows well that there has been a planning problem, a rather significant planning problem. So we'd rather spend more than less, anyone here can say. It can be said that this appropriation has been increased by the additional support from the government reserve of some HUF 1.7 billion. But what's in this budget? 500 million forints in II. Ferenc Rákóczi Hungarian University of Transcarpathia, HUF 200 million for the development of Hungarian secondary education institutions in Transylvania, HUF 140 million for the completion of the construction works of the Reformed Líceum in Nagybereg, HUF 100 million for the capacity building of Hungarian Scout associations across the border, HUF 365 million for the implementation of the Hungarian National Council's flagship programmes and HUF 418 million for the support of the Reformed Church District of Transylvania and the Hungarian University of Sapientia. The question may be whether, in addition to the support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, it is justified at all to maintain such an appropriation by the Ministry and whether it is justified to increase these funds at the expense of an extraordinary government reserve. This question arises because any lack of transparency that introduces central resources into an unclear institutional system at the same time creates an opportunity for abuse and gives them the opportunity to disappear hand in hand. The Socialist Party believes that it would be more appropriate that, if the Bethlen Gábor Fund support system is able to use these funds, these payments should be made at the expense of it. There was a lack of transparency and transparency in this institutional system. Let's look at another chapter, the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office. The first in this is the National Strategy Research Institute. This is a very interesting research facility. The institute was caught in the crossfire of massive attacks at the moment of its establishment. When I took over my parliamentary mandate this year, this research institute did not even have a website. I'm from the science world, too. It is quite strange that a research institute, which in principle operates from HUF 1.3 billion, did not yet have a website at that time, and then it worked a year ago, but it did not have one. When we asked at the committee meeting how such expensively purchased research would reach Hungarians across the border or anyone who would like to obtain public research, the answer was Jenő Szász, director of this research institute, that the nature of the matter was, therefore, to spread these researches through oral tradition, and we do not need a website. As much as I have sharpened my ears over the last few years in the subway of the Békásmegyer HÉV, however many times I participated in the communities of the people of Óbuda when they invited me to consult, no one has shown me such oral documentation, which has not cost the taxpayers 1.3 billion forints, because the research institute was unable to even spend the uncounted Hungarian forint. [[István Szávay: Hundreds of millions of HUF, 300-400 million.]] It is interesting enough to think that there is a research institute that is so incompetent that it cannot spend money even under such conditions, but in this case the incompetence is fortunate, because as much as the government would have given money for research that does not exist, for a research institute that does not exist, thanks to the inadequacy of the good God, Jenő Szász in this field, it was not possible to spend it, and thus the Hungarian taxpayers' money was saved. The rest is the question that shouldn't have been given in the first place under such unclear circumstances. The project related to the establishment of the research institute itself was first spent 100 million forints. It must be very expensive. The fact that we're setting up a research facility has so much to do with it, to think that 100 million would just come through. Now that I think about it, I can't say the cost of what cost 100 million forints in it, but it must have been so interesting to see this research institute, which didn't even have a website six months after it was founded that it was absolutely necessary to spend 100 million forints on other activities. Forint 1.3 billion is planned for operation. If we compare it to the price of the stadiums you have built unnecessarily, it is indeed not a big money, but I think that from this source it would be possible to ease the fate of so many poor Hungarians from the four million living below the poverty threshold in this country thanks to your activities. I have already mentioned to you that in all cases the performance has been cancelled from the amended appropriations. We agreed it was luck in this case. In 2013 the Government decision also sought to create the necessary funds from the research institute to eliminate excessive deficit procedures and ordered the closure of approximately HUF 460 million in real estate expenditure. This is what I was referring to when we said, thanks to the good God, that all the money could not be spent by the research institute that did not exist at the time, the research institute that did not exist at the time cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 850 million. How absurd the situation is so that it can be felt, for example, by 31 December, the filling of the research staff reached 56 percent. We are not talking about the need to employ thousands of prepared researchers who can create new research on the national political scene, because that is obviously not the case. Out of a hundred researchers, 56 were successfully applied until 31 December. We do not consider this to be a great success, a clear waste, and we regard it as a clear waste that such a significant amount of government resources have agreed to this research facility. There is no reasonable reason for this, no reasonable activity has been carried out by this institute.2012. The Institute of Jenő Szász will be set up with effect from 11 December 2006. His charter says a lot of things. He says that the central office under the control of the Prime Minister and his employees are important and confidential persons who have to undergo the highest degree of intelligence screening. That's good, by the way, because it's safe to say that these people can enter the Fradi stadiums without further ado, which you have also modernised using huge government funds, without being able to set foot in using the scanning system, but the research institute staff can set foot in. I don't know why the National Strategy Research Institute needs such redundancy, such a waste, but I'm sure you know. The declared aim of the research institute is to analyse, research and coordinate the outstanding intellectual, cultural and scientific achievements, traditions and socio-economic situation of the Hungarian community. The question is whether this extremely expensive institute is suitable for this. Already at the moment of foundation, the appointment of Jenő Szász caused problems, problems and tension, who, as former president of the Hungarian Civil Party, is certainly not fit to mark the national unity of Transylvanian Hungarians. It is not a problem that Jenő Szász's political commitment is a problem, but I think it is right to expect this, and according to the Hungarian Socialist Party, it is also right to expect that a national research institute, which is part of the institutional system of a national unity, will be appointed to the head of a person with great scientific knowledge, experience and past, who is capable of forming and displaying the unity of Hungary, our nation; Jenő Szász's former political activity makes it certain that he is not, unfortunately not. [[17.40]] Many said that a political commissar was appointed. Even this stigma demonstrates the acceptance or lack of acceptance of the National Strategy Institute and its leader in cross-border public life. There were huge debates already at the moment of foundation, because the introduction of the head of the institute was unfortunate, and this introduction was also made by Mr.Hunor Kelemen on several occasions? Let's just say that? It's a negative rating. In the last nearly two years, this research institute has been a virtually phantom institution, and it can be said that it has no meaningful relationship with any research institute and research in the Carpathian Basin, its projects are mediocre enough, quietly forgotten, and among its colleagues, there are no experts we have talked about who would be highly qualified people moving in this area. There are some who do, but this is certainly not true for the majority of the staff of the institution. The Institute's report also says a great deal, according to which 37 million dollars were spent on foreign missions, advertising, representation, holiday contributions, 4.3 million, while only 42 thousand forints were spent on book purchases. 42,000 forints! I think that my fellow Members feel that there is a research institute that collects knowledge of scientific life in the sense of national strategy, and that it processes it and publishes it in the wake of oral tradition, because the basic principle of Hungarian scientific research is that we publish it as a result of oral tradition, and this research institute needs 42,000 forints to buy a book. If I want to be positive about the research institute, I can tell you that there must be so many minds working here that they don't need anything but a little privacy to relax, to reflect on the daily lives of the nation's strategy for 4.3 million forints, and to represent for 37 million forints. This is the use of public funds in the National Strategy Research Institute. However, I do not wish to be unfair to you, Honourable House. I would like to announce a huge advance in this forum, which I think can give rise to great pride: there is a website for the Institute. I'd like to continue from here. Thank you.
u2014-10-14-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. You should stop now, because for a second re-enactment, but for the first time, the leading president will give you the opportunity, and I will not give you the second option in accordance with the rules of the house. So I'm asking you to stop, you have more than a minute and a half. [[László Kiss: I'll press a normal button and then I'll finish it.]] The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is István Szávay.
u2014-10-14-95	Thank you very much. I am in a rather awkward position here, Mr László Kiss, from the benches of the Socialist Party, because what he has said as a criticism of the government's national policy, unfortunately I have to agree with about 90 percent. But maybe it's not really uncomfortable for me, it's for you and the ruling parties to be uncomfortable. I would also like to address a number of issues concerning the national policy chapters of the budget. By the way, I am somewhat obliged to relate to what has already been said. What concerns the support of the National Strategy Research Institute of HUF 1.2 billion: it is undoubtedly true that hundreds of millions of forints of this remained last year. It raises questions whether there is even a chapter of the budget where such amounts of money remain, whether there is a chapter of the budget where we are so abundant in spending that we cannot spend 20 to 30 percent of the funds allocated to it. Well, that's obviously a lot to think about. But as far as I know, we're not doing any better this year, so the National Strategy Research Institute hasn't spent a proportional share of its budget support in 2014, let's say, nine months. There's no way the institute can do with that kind of money. Not to mention that, anyway? Let me make some adjustments to Congressman Kiss's numbers? That almost one third of the posts in the National Strategy Research Institute are currently not filled is undoubtedly true. We don't know anything about the work of the department of Székelyudvarhely and those 20 employees, and we don't really know anything about these researches. For example, we know that the Institute has two full-time employees, who are supposed to be in contact with Hungarian scientific workshops abroad. When I asked President Szász exactly what these colleagues were doing and what kind of contact they had with foreign Hungarian scientific workshops and what scientific activity they were doing, I was unfortunately unable to get an answer to that myself. As far as the specific activity is concerned: thank you very much again, I regularly receive the Institute's invitations to national strategic scientific projects such as the Mangalica Festival or, for example, the exhibitions of a Transcarpathian, undoubtedly very talented and commendable painter, performed in the headquarters of the National Strategy Research Institute. We are not saying that there is no need for this institution, we are not saying that there is no need for national strategic activity, because of course there is, but it is time to consider this matter. For his part, Jobbik was very patient and constructive on this issue. In the past year and a half, we have not made the work and activity of the Institute a particular criticism, more precisely the lack of it, precisely because we thought it appropriate, as a constructive opposition, to wait for what a new structure, a new organization, will do, what work it will do. We didn't think it was right, elegant and ethical to criticize this institution after a few months of work. However, I think it is now time to talk about the kind of work or the lack of what is happening there or what is not happening, not to mention how much it costs. While the National Strategy Research Institute sits on 100 million forints, the government has not paid educational support to Hungarian parents sending their children to Hungarian schools across the border for the second year. I held a press conference on this recently, it didn't have a lot of impact, not formally, but I don't know about it informally either. What's this about? Have we, on many occasions, made it a serious criticism in recent years that you, while the ruling parties, are talking about a revolution in national politics? I mean, that's what happened in 2010, and it's been a national political turnaround ever since, isn't it? Since 2001, no single penny has been raised since then, so for almost a decade and a half the same amount of education and education support, which can be obtained by Hungarian parents from abroad, who, if any, take up the disadvantages, but insist on their Hungarians, give their children to a Hungarian school, thus strengthening the Hungarian community, strengthening the Hungarian institutions, ensuring the survival of Hungarian communities. In order to do this, the Hungarian state provided 20 thousand forints as a worthy initiative of your previous government. This was a valuable initiative in its kind, since the eight-year government of the socialists did not dare to stop it, unlike many other forms of support from abroad. However, is this 20,000 forints? are we talking about HUF 22 400? Now it's not worth as much, of course, as it was 15 years ago. Four years ago, we have submitted it to all budget debates four years ago, just as we are going to present next year's proposal to be kind enough to raise this amount significantly. That didn't happen. In fact, we have now reached the point of holding back 5 thousand forints from this amount last year. So, not only would they finally raise this amount after 15 years, so that it really is attractive and can provide meaningful help to Hungarian parents, but they reduced it by HUF 5 thousand. Last year, he said that Hungary was subject to an excessive deficit procedure and that restrictions had to be applied. This involved the Bethlen Gábor Fund, and it was thought that this amount would be carved from here. Not from the operation, from the more than 800 million HUF operation, in which there are car rentals. Thank you very much for the idea, Congressman Kiss, and I will see if the Bethlen Gábor Fund also spends on holidays and how much they spend on books. That's definitely a good idea. [[17.50]] So, the Bethlen Gábor Fund applauds 800 million forints, but when it was supposed to hold 200 million forints from the budget for blocking, they didn't even think that maybe this should be cut off from the operation. No, take it away from Hungarian families and Hungarian parents. Last year, in Parliament, Hungary was somehow released from the excessive deficit procedure at the end of May, on 29 May, if I recall correctly. A few weeks later, I asked whether the Hungarian parents from abroad would receive this HUF 5,000 missed grant. At that time, State Secretary Bence Rétvári replied as Secretary of State and said that, after the excessive deficit procedure was terminated, he thought that the words of the then Deputy State Secretary Zsuzsanna Répás said that he could provide sufficient guarantees that these subsidies would be paid later. Now, the word of a Deputy State Secretary of the Hungarian Government is about as much as that of Zsuzsa Répás when he promised. Not only last year's outstanding HUF 5200 has not been paid, but this support has been cut by HUF 5200 this year, I would add, despite the continued HUF 22 400 in the invitation to tender. I have already asked our lawyers to examine at all whether this can be done legally and financially, legally, by the way, that the Hungarian State, Bethlen Gábor Fund, is launching a tender in which it indicates the amount of the tender, and later it will not pay this amount to the successful applicants. So much to add to this question: the money wasn't enough last year and the year before, only then it was replaced by 700 million forints. Now that didn't happen. But while we're at it, let's have one sentence, even about the need to review the whole system itself. We've said that a lot. Because there are a lot of unauthorized people who take the money, so it would be safe to save money from this point of view, people who, although receiving the support, are then sending their children to a majority school, i.e. Ukrainian, Serbian and Romanian schools. This should be monitored much more effectively. Nothing happened in four years about this. Here, too, you could save money and give it to those who really deserve it. But what's worse, especially in the South and the eastern part of the Highlands, is that Hungarian schools are flooded by people who do not have Hungarian identities, but often do not even speak Hungarian normally, just to obtain this support. I have told this House many times, at least three times, but then I will say for the fourth time, in case something finally happens: Albanian gypsy children fleeing from Kosmet to Hungarian schools in southern Hungary, for 20,000 or now 17 thousand forints of the Hungarian state, as a result of which Hungarian parents are transferring their children to Serbian schools. Once again, this has been said at least four times in this House. I will say this until they are willing to address this issue, although Zsolt Semjén and Zsuzsanna Répás have already promised on several occasions. Let me touch on one more question or topic briefly: this is the case of Hungarian class trips abroad. This was also a very excellent proposal in Jobbik's programme at the time, and we are very pleased that you found it to be sympathetic and implemented in 2010. Along with the fact that at that time the government promise from Zsolt Semjén was made to ensure that by 2014 or at the end of the cycle, a full age group of children, seventh graders were assigned here, with state support, they could visit a foreign Hungarian territory as part of a class trip. Well, we're far from the full age group, even half of it. Last year, a total of 14,000 children could travel instead of 100,000. This amount has now been increased somewhat. Now the promise is that by 2018, this programme will last. However, its funding was scandalous again this year. Children, groups who wanted to travel now in September and October, received a letter from KLIK during August that although the tender was won, in which it was written, they could not pay them the money. Therefore, three things were proposed to the schoolmasters and parents; one to ask for money on the sub-accounts of KLIK County, and then, in brackets, they politely wrote that there may not be enough resources. When they called the competent authority, they said that there was no source at all, but that it had to be written in the letter to make it look better to ask for an advance? Just like it wasn't, by the way. Postpone or reschedule the route, which is obviously not possible, as it requires very large organization. Not to mention that in the destinations to which the journey takes place, this was arranged, accommodation was booked, the group was expected, so the school adjusted its schedule. And the third was, this was the nicest thing, by the way, how incredibly undeserving you put a lot of teachers and parents in a position to try and get rid of entrepreneurs, tour operators and everyone who has a cost to get paid later, and bring in their tender results and state certificates that, in principle, guarantee that the entrepreneurs involved in the program or to whom they have to account for costs, will receive their money at some point. So you forced dozens of schoolmasters and teachers to go out and beckon bus drivers and hosts about taking them away for free, because at some point, the state will pay them that amount. Not to mention that the state guarantee letter can be flaunted freely in Szeklerland, it won't do much good there. So the resources here weren't enough either. With regard to the entire national political planning...? I do not want to talk too much about the fact that 30 different items of money have continued to be stashed in the budget in 15 different chapters, while, in 2010, they were otherwise committed, and the State Audit Office has repeatedly stated that this has not been achieved in order to standardise budget resources for national policy purposes, and that they wish to manage this in a uniform way, precisely to make this more transparent, more traceable and, where appropriate, to eliminate duplication. After all, on several occasions, food organisations and individuals have applied for and obtained support for the same programme or different sources of treatment of different ministries for the same purpose, so that in most cases they did not know what the right hand was doing? That's what they say. So it was said that they would be united in the treatment of subsidies for national policy purposes. It hasn't been revealed to this day. Once again, this was included in the Court's relevant report last year. I wonder what he's gonna do about it this year. We would expect it to be clearer, more transparent, more transparent, to include these costs in the budget. Not to mention that it should be possible to plan normally, because, in the last three years, it has not been achieved at all, so that it can be said, at least broadly, that the honourable government would have kept itself to the figures set out in the budget, but that there are such additions. In itself, we do not object to the fact that 1 and 1.5 billion forints are now being transferred by the government to noble foreign higher education institutions. But the fact that the college in Beregszász has to finish its roofing or that a new college has to be built for the Reformed people in Cluj-Napoca is likely to be known six months ago. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-14-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2014-10-14-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Speaking of lockdowns in the previous defence chapter, I would like to start with the same thing, which I would like to highlight in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs chapter. There was also a lockdown, which was withdrawn, which is also 1.7 billion forints. It's hard to identify what's going on in the foreign affairs lately, by the way. After all, Péter Szijjártó acknowledged at his press conference that he was planning to lay off about 220 people at the wallet, and the number of the Ministry has continued to increase in recent years. Looks like this is how it's gonna go on. In the case of central administration, it is not clear why a 19-person headcount was needed, which we can see from the figures, but in the case of the opening of new delegations, the closing accounts also refer to those rejected by the host country. For example, Marosvásárhely and Oradea. It also raises questions about the government's commitment to the transfer of two government decisions from a chapter-based appropriation of EU contributions. [[18.00]] This is aimed at fulfilling the Hungarian contribution to the European Union's European Development Fund, which is a Member State's obligation. The European Development Fund is the EU's fund for development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific developing countries. The budget was already HUF 840 million, and further HUF 2.5 billion was transferred to the management of foreign representations with permission from the Ministry of National Economy to finance the opening of new foreign representations. We can see that now, in the spirit of saving, they are closing some foreign representations, while elsewhere they are opening new ones, so we can see a contradiction here. But speaking of saving, I would like to point out that the 350 million HUF planned for the expenditure related to the Prime Minister's protocol was not enough, almost double of it was spent on the basis of these figures. The HUF 626 million up to 31 December was only possible through transfers. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But let us say a few words about the environment and the results, if we can call anything that is, by the way, the foreign policy of Viktor Orbán and the government. For example, it is obvious that there is no single foreign and external strategy. Over the past four years, foreign policy has been only a hostage to Viktor Orbán's personal ambitions, and everything was subject to what he had in mind, how he was thinking about the world. János Martonyi and the Ministry were only visible when they had to put out fire. With the appointment of Péter Szijjártó, the entire wallet was placed under the manual control of the Prime Minister, thus permanently sweeping away the values and merits of traditional diplomacy. Behind the current foreign policy activity, Viktor Orbán's illusions lie, and I would like to list a few of them. According to him, Hungary is a huge, strong world nation and is in a strategic position with very significant resources and an advocacy, and therefore the great powers and investors will, of course, look very much for the friendship and favors of the growing Hungary in a weakened Europe, according to Viktor Orbán. Hungary is able to handle the crisis alone, better than Europe, that is what the Prime Minister thinks, and that the post-crisis political, economic and social model will be an independent and sovereign Hungarian model, which, in his view, is better than the declining European model. Nevertheless, the failure of Hungarian foreign policy is well characterised by the fact that the majority of our Western allies are turning away from us, we have been in diplomatic conflict with 15 of the EU Member States since 2010, typically due to anti-democracy, rule of law and market economy government actions and continuous statements. And it is no coincidence that the European People's Party has no unity in judging, condemning, criticizing or possibly suspending its membership. Every year, in the neighbouring relationship system, unsolved problems pile up, and in Hungarian-Hungarian relations, only the construction and support of Fidesz's satellite organizations across the border has taken place in the last four years. Zsolt Semjén said that we can talk about a success story that is almost unprecedented on a global scale, but we believe that we cannot talk about such success in bilateral and Hungarian-Hungarian relations. The free naturalization procedure voted by the national consensus in May 2010 could be proud of the entire Hungarian political elite, but unfortunately, the government's vote-maximizing efforts are now accompanied by the idea of citizenship law. Partly because of the Hungarian government's pro-Russian position in Russian-Ukrainian conflict and energy, cooperation in Visegrád has become formal. After Viktor Orbán's inauguration speech, the 4th Prime Minister's meeting in Bratislava in May became essentially a Tusk-Orbán debate reflecting a deep conflict of values. The concept of Eastern opening failed. It was an illusion to think that these interest-based relationships would replace our traditional allies, that China, Russia, Azerbaijan or Saudi Arabia would replace Western financial resources, markets and investments for our two beautiful eyes, without any constraints or obligations. The policy of Eastern opening was characterised by defiance and resentment, as we tried to approach Azerbaijan, Saudi Arabia or Kazakhstan to try to find new ways by loosening EU ties. This is just another attempt by the government to blackmail Brussels, citing that if he doesn't go with you, we'll try without you. As a result of this policy, Hungary's weight and influence in the region and in the European Union will be even more devalued. Insularity within the federal system is indicated by the fact that the current foreign affairs administration is opening new Hungarian embassies in Mongolia and Ecuador, while closing them in two EU Member States, Estonia and Cyprus. However, we know that many Hungarians live and work in Cyprus, the representation of whom is very important on this site, and the established security policy situation in Estonia would absolutely justify that this foreign representation should not be closed. However, these aspects are not of interest to the Hungarian government. The Foreign Affairs apparatus hasn't worked in the last four years. With the establishment of the new government, it has become even more paralyzed by prioritising foreign economic priorities and drawing up new expectations. In addition, there has been a cleansing in the foreign affairs apparatus that has not been done in any change of government. This cleansing concerns not only the top management of the wallet, but also professionals working in the ministry and performing external service. In a year, three quarters of the Ambassador's staff will be replaced, and according to the wallet manager there is nothing extraordinary about it, but it proves that almost everyone was swept out in 2010, the mandate of the then appointed ambassadors is now over. This means that 84 foreign representations will be replaced within a year. In addition, 136 foreign economic attaché will start their work at a total of 106 stations, while the Minister acknowledged that the portfolio is expected to lay off more than 200 people. According to the world view of Viktor Orbán, the Western world is rapidly declining, the United States is weakening and the European Union is disintegrating. As a result, he started to organize a state capitalist Eastern model, driven by his own ethnic, absolutist tendencies, although it is clear that Hungary's natural resources and financial opportunities do not make it suitable for its successful use. Péter Szijjártó, Hungary's new Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade is a true server of this vision. I'd like to refer to the trading houses for a few sentences. Several areas currently subject to single external relations governance are also subject to a number of issues. Here we are thinking primarily of the foreign economy and Hungarian cultural institutions. It is worth pointing out that the focus on external economic aspects in diplomacy is not, by the way, from the devil. Today, there can be a legitimate expectation for foreign representations to strengthen their relations in this direction. This is justified by the examples of many countries, but not at the expense of the other values. Therefore, the values and merits of classical diplomacy cannot be swept aside or thrown away, but can only be built on them to implement a successful foreign economic strategy. The National Trading House Zrt. is in itself. strengthening it can be a thing of support, but only on the basis of solid foreign policy values and commitments that we have established in the past, either in the federal or in the partner system, but these federal and partnership relations have been destroyed and eliminated in the last four years. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. its owners 98.75 percent of the Hungarian state, 1.25 percent of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. In 2013, nearly HUF 3 billion was spent on the operation of the MNKH. But it also raises a few professional questions. For example, why there was a need to terminate ITD Hungary with extensive commercial and economic information and a total of 56 countries represented by a foreign and national information database, since it is currently represented by MNKH 15. [[18.10]] By the way, figures and figures do not reveal the economic criteria for deciding where to open such a national trading house, nor do they reveal to us either from accounts, paper form, or from oral hearings by the Commission, what results, by the way, can be accurately shown by the trading houses opened so far. In relation to foreign Hungarian cultural institutes, it is worth mentioning that the expansion of the institutional network is also very welcome, since in addition to the 19 cultural institutes that have been established so far, the Hungarian Institutes in Istanbul, Beijing, Zagreb and Belgrade have also opened their doors in the previous years. The Hungarian house to be opened in Cluj-Napoca would be equally important from a national political point of view, which, on the basis of the specific promise of László L. Simon, former Minister of Culture, was in principle allocated HUF 60 million in the Hungarian budget. The professional programs of the institutions were also criticised, as the Institute of Balassi headed by Pál Hatos, responsible for direct professional supervision, recommended the organisation of sports programmes in a circular addressed to the head of the institute instead of presenting the greats of Hungarian culture. At the same time, it is extremely regrettable that it also applies political selection to programmes organised by the institutions. For example, it was mandatory to remember Makovecz, but Béla Tarr should be forgotten? quote. The historical conference of the former head of the Hungarian Institute of Budapest about István Bibó was not supported by the Balassi Institute in 2011 because its organisation is not one of the tasks of the Institute. So this closing bill shows that foreign policy directions, the wallet, are not working properly. As regards the current foreign policy directions and the orientations that have lasted for years, I find it extremely regrettable that the very important moral capital that we managed to create in the course of the change of regime with joint work, this important moral capital was eroded by the Hungarian government with bad foreign policy decisions, with the policy of isolation, because at that time there was an appreciation, a partnership by which we could be proud Hungarians, we could be proud Hungary, we were considered predictable and reliable. Today, the government is completely unpredictable and completely unreliable, and this also affects our very important foreign partners, who would otherwise be a very important engine of economic development that would serve the well-being and well-being of the Hungarian people. I think that neither of our foreign partners, our allies, are disturbed by the fact that the Hungarian government wants to pursue national interests, because everyone wants to pursue their own national interests, and so do they. They are disturbed by the fact that a very tight group and tight Fidesz party interest [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] lying constantly to national interests of the Orbán government. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP, has asked for the third time. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power to grant it or not. But since Vice-President János Latorcai has given the Member the opportunity to do so in a three-minute time frame, I respect that, so I would like to take your thoughts in a 3-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Bethlen Gábor Fund has hardly been mentioned, and this is a very important part of the system of national political institutions. This bill before us also has an important flaw in this regard. The textual part of the bill does not follow the numbers in the main volume, where the 2013 professional report of Bethlen Gábor Fund was copied using a simple Ctrl+C, Ctrl+V. It follows that, for individual appropriations, it is only possible to speculate what is included in the bill. The budget itself, the Fund's appropriation, announced a public tender procedure against a budget of around HUF 600 million, but there is some HUF 7.9 billion in this fund. It can therefore be said that in the public tender procedure around 3.9 percent of the fund's money is distributed. The MSZP therefore believes that this is not an appropriate ratio. It is objectionable that the transparency of the fund is not served by the fact that a Hungarian expert from abroad, who has knowledge of the situation and terrain, and a person involved in the work of MÁÉRT, cannot participate in decision-making and decision-making, which in any case calls into question the professional operation of the fund. A huge problem, as we have already indicated on several occasions, is the reduction of educational, educational and textbook and educational support in the national political institutional system. In 2013 22 400 forints, now 17 200 forints for this support. I note that under previous governments, under the governments of the MSZP, this support was that much. There was no case of this not being distributed. Similarly, projects for the year of Hungarian schoolchildren abroad could be a major problem in 2013. It is interesting here that out of the 95 million budget 72 million HUF, we do not understand why, in Hungary, the Erzsébet Hotels, Táborok and Vendégház Kft. I've been spent on the operation. Why couldn't anyone else be involved in the project? Similarly, we have raised several problems with all aspects of the operation of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, because we can say that the actual support practice is not what is in the accounts and not what is in your communication. Your actual support practice is that in Hungarian communities abroad, you have the exclusive support of organisations that are well-informed, communicate with you, close to Fidesz, and use this fund to reward organisations that are related to you. Those who do not, who want to pursue an independent policy, who are guilty of having a position independent of you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they don't get one. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-10-14-100	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Balázs Rákossy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2014-10-14-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With regard to what has been said today in the debate, let me draw your attention to the fact that the Orbán government took over the budget in 2010 with a deficit of over 7 percent without intervention. However, as a result of the firefighter's intervention, this decreased to 4.3 percent. As of 2011, every year it maintained a deficit below 3 per cent according to the EU methodology, according to which it was expected at that time. In 2012, the deficit amounted to 2.3 per cent and in 2013, 2.4 per cent, which was better than the initial allocation in both years. As Mr Tállai, State Secretary, as stated in the expozee, pointed out, the 2013 budget year was determined by two processes. In the first half of the year, Hungary was still subject to an excessive deficit procedure, so in the spring the government decided on measures to improve the general government balance in order to conclude this procedure, although it did not agree with the European Commission's macroeconomic forecasts. However, it was already clear in the course of the year that, thanks to the economic growth that had started, these measures proved to be excessive, so that they could provide the necessary additional resources in a number of areas.In 2013 the deficit was more favourable than the deficit target of 2.7 per cent, according to the EU methodology set, with a deficit of 2.4 per cent. The government's commitment to a reduction in debt is also clear. From 2010 onwards, the debt indicator has continuously decreased. Over and over again, speakers seem to forget that the government has reduced debt almost uniquely in the EU in recent years. [[18.20]] In Hungary, the government debt decreased in 2013 for the third year, which was implemented in the 28 Member States of the EU only in Latvia. The development of public debt is assessed by both the European Union and other international organisations according to the methodology established in the Union, so for Hungary the current indicator in the autumn EDP report is examined and evaluated by the Commission of the Union. According to this report, the government sector's debt in proportion to GDP amounted to 80,9 per cent in 2010 and then gradually decreased and in 2013 only showed 77,3 per cent of GDP. As regards the proportion of tax revenues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to both cash flow and the EU methodology, the ratio of fiscal and fiscal revenues of public finances was lower each year than before 2010. As a result of the current government, the budget's tax revenues decreased compared to the 2007-2009 years, from around 40 per cent of GDP in 2012 to 38 per cent in the previous government. For just a few examples: in 2007 the share of fiscal revenues in public finances was 39.3 per cent of GDP, 39.7 per cent in 2008 and 39.1 per cent of GDP in 2009. By contrast, in 2011 the ratio was 35.7 per cent, in 2012 it was 38,4 per cent and in 2013 it was also 38,4 per cent. On this basis, I would not say that the value of the tax burden would have shown increasing trends at any time during the Orbán government. It should also be pointed out that this has been achieved despite adverse external economic circumstances, with the burden being shared by the government, i.e. involving monopolistic companies and sectors in the burden on the public. In recent years, the tax system has undergone a major transformation, with a shift from labour taxes to consumption taxes. In this context, instead of the previous personal income tax system, which is a penalty for increasing the tax burden on labour, while at the same time encouraging tax avoidance, a system of 16 percent, purely single-key, proportional personal income tax and family tax relief was introduced. One of the biggest spending costs for families has been reduced, and this decline has continued this year. Pensions preserved their value and even increased their real size in 2013. Even in extremely difficult circumstances, the government has created an opportunity to expand the home creation system and save families with foreign exchange credit in distress. The teachers' careers have started, and in addition, there has been a wage increase for health workers. Finally, the public work programme integrating people in a hopeless situation into the world of work has also been significantly expanded. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-14-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2014-10-14-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the framework of this over eight-hour debate, we have tried to monitor the nature of the debate with my partner, Vice-President Tihamér Warvasovszky and our colleagues. We were very pleased to note that many had read the State Audit Office's report and analysis, and in this, using their own judgement, they expressed their views on the main issues close to their own heart. I think that I need to use feedback on some of the topics on which we are currently examining, checking and I would like to point out that, in all the cases that have been mentioned, as before, we are used to analyse the comments and other indications made by our representatives to determine the scope of the investigation. In the same way as in the case of the repeatedly mentioned ragweed, we discussed this specifically in a 2012 closure report, but I will tell you more about it. First, allow me to make an observation, perhaps related to the keynote speakers, because they were, I think, the more comprehensive signals to which I should refer. There are some comments or speeches that have led to certain misconceptions, so I would like to clarify what has happened. Mr Sándor Burány, citing the justification for a decision of the Fiscal Council, mentioned as one of the serious shortcomings of the 2013 budget planning that the Fiscal Council did not give an opinion on the same budget proposal as the Parliament had discussed. The President of the State Audit Office is an ex officio member of the Fiscal Council, which is why I am responding to this finding. The Member's statement is factual, but it was not a mistake or a mistake, but it is in line with the Hungarian legal order that exists today. According to the Act on Economic Stability, the Budget Council gives an opinion on the draft budget bill to the government, and then the government, considering the opinion of the Council, completes the bill on the budget and submits it to Parliament. Consequently, it is in line with the legal requirements that the Budget Council does not adopt the same proposal as the Government is submitting to Parliament. So the fact is true, the conclusion, as I said, I do not want to argue, just the factuality itself, I think it is worth adding. Several speakers spoke on the issue of wealth, state assets, municipal assets and utility companies. Among other things, the representative of the LMP expressed his concern about the utility companies in Budapest, and in this connection I have to give the signal that I am pleased to say first of all that we are aware of the risks in this area, but not this pleasure, but that in 2010 he praises the Parliament that came into office at the time, that the SAO is able to control these companies at all? So are the companies of the Metropolitan City Council? As the audit of the majority-government-owned companies was made possible only by a bill adopted in 2011, the Court of Auditors' audits in the field started and are still ongoing. The investigation of the service companies started with the transport companies, then the BKV, and then the local public transport companies in Debrecen, Miskolc, Szeged in 13th, and the Budapest Közterület-Sustaining Zrt. its controls have already been completed, and this year we have completed the control of 17 majority-government-owned theatres operating as companies, some of which belonged to the Metropolitan Municipality itself, but also to those owned by other municipalities. Five of the state-owned regional water resources have been checked and completed for the regularity of their preservation and enrichment activities. The Court is currently carrying out audits of municipal waste management and district heating companies, and these reports will be published soon. We believe that without looking at municipal and public companies, we cannot fulfil our statutory task of controlling national assets, and this was made possible by the Parliament after more than twenty years by the Court of Auditors. On the other hand, the basics of wealth management, the registration and replacement of wealth - do we agree? maintenance of public services. In addition to the quality of service, we must, of course, also pay attention to the pricing of public utility services. In the case of well-founded price decisions, and in the case of State aid claims arising, and in the case of aid paid, it is necessary to require accurate accounting, to verify the extent to which the problem arising from pricing and the problems arising from management or ownership decisions are, in order to protect state, municipal assets and public funds as much as possible. Therefore, one of the most important areas of our controls is the existence of a cost calculation for pricing and its transparency and justification, which has been required by the law for many years. In our experience, they are not always able to fully comply. [[18.30]] Our inspections in this area have been made public and made available on a continuous basis. So what? Like I said? I do not want to go along with it, because it is not related to the 2013 accounts, during the 2010 discharge check, which took place in 2011, the Parliament discussed it. Then I would just like to remind you of one fact: the Court of Auditors endorsed the report of the Ministry of Rural Development in the 2011 accounts. Who was responsible for what month was obviously the debate then took place, but the Court itself had already indicated that there was a problem in this wallet at the time. Then later, as I indicated, we returned several times, and exactly at the request of a representative of the MSZP, on his proposal, did we review it during the audit of the 2012 accounts? Because of its public health significance? verification of support for the implementation of protection against ragweed in the general interest. This was in the 2012 accounts; I say now that it is not our duty to discuss this, because it is now 2014 and it is the 2013 accounts. The following is: a number of people spoke about tax revenues. I am convinced that, indeed, this is a very sensitive area of budget completion, since today's NAV provides 70 percent of today's budget. I would also like to say to Mr János Volner, in particular, that I thank you for your words of appreciation, which have expressed the support of the SAO's mission that, yes, you have sensed that we can support this debate with the analyses, and we hope that we have been able to contribute to this. On the other hand, the congressman? Returning? in respect of tax revenues. It is important to point out that in 2013 the nominal increase in the fiscal and fiscal revenues of the central budget was 6.1 percent compared to 2012, but it is also a fact that, compared to the 2013 draft, it was HUF 534.3 billion below the revised planned allocation, which was equal to 1.8 percent of GDP in 2013. On this basis, it is possible to consider the repeated indications of the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council here before the Parliament, which drew attention to the risks of tax revenue appropriations. In this connection, with regard to the National Tax Office, Ms Schmuck also drew attention to the problem of large-scale tax avoidance. Indeed, in the last ten years, the State Audit Office has addressed this issue in the context of the current accounts, and a number of others have addressed this issue of tax collection. On this basis, I would like to inform the House that we have indeed started the audit process of the National Tax and Customs Office at the beginning of the year, which is what I spoke about in my expozem. If you will allow me, I would just like to say that in the risky areas that the closing accounts have brought to light and can be read in our reports, even in this year's or previous years, there is a deep background assessment and an audit of the entire institution. The focus of our controls is therefore on the backlog management, enforcement and taxation and control activities that were considered to be high-risk during previous inspections. Indeed, this contains issues of tax avoidance related to the NAV, including the operation of the so-called Eurofisc system in the framework of international cooperation, which prevents VAT fraud between countries. By the way, the Commission created this institutional system before 2010, and Hungary joined this system, which is now being evaluated. If I may? Like I said? This will be available at the same time as the report. So we have really seen some of the issues that you have considered to be highlighted, which have been raised here in the debate. Two more of these issues need to be highlighted, as a decision has been taken and concrete monitoring is being carried out. On the one hand, Mr István Tukacs raised the question about financial institutions. The OBA audit is under way, which will enable us to learn from the issue raised by him about the areas in which insolvent financial institutions in Hungary arrive towards this State guarantee system and whose deposits should be protected and the interests of depositors, and it is important how much this has cost each year in recent years. We are expected to be able to provide information on this investigation only in the first half of next year. Also, Congresswoman Márta Demeter specifically addressed the problem of blocking the budget as a coercive measure of budget savings. That is why I am able to inform this House and the Member to examine, in the context of our just-starting scrutiny, the monitoring of the measures taken to improve the balance in recent years, from 2009 onwards, of the means and effectiveness of which government has been using, because there can really be lessons to be learned from the extent to which some measures have achieved the objective, have brought savings, and to what extent this has caused an unsolvable problem. Looking at it is expected to be possible sometime in the first half of next year, then you can find out about it. Obviously, there have been numerous other issues. Obviously, the Court of Auditors cannot focus on all issues at the same time, but I think we have already checked, read and used some of the points raised, which we thank for. What about these? You're here to collect it, based on the speeches? I considered it important to inform you that these reports will be published in the coming months. This is what I wanted to say, and it is an opportunity to further deepen the experience of monitoring in specific areas. Thank you for allowing me to contribute with these ideas, and thank you again for using the Court of Auditors' report and analysis in such a way as to ensure this in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We're going to move on to our second item on the agenda. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 for the international carriage of goods by TIR pass will follow. The submission is T/1505. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Rákossy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-14-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The United Nations Economic Commission for Europe has drawn up amendments to the Geneva Customs Convention governing the international carriage of goods by TIR pass, which will enter into force in Hungary on 1 January 2015. This amendment provides a legal basis for the use of the electronic application developed by the TIR Secretariat. This is important because, for example, it is possible to notify the TIR Executive Board by short notice of the exclusion of a card holder from the TIR procedure, where appropriate. The new provision also allows a member of an organisation assisting in the implementation of the TIR Convention to resign during the two-year term of office undertaken to choose a new member for the remainder of the term of office. It also sets a time limit for the annual obligation to provide information to the International Guarantee Association. It shall require the TIR Executive Board to notify the data subjects of the price of each TIR type by 1 March each year. [[18.40]] Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based, and the amendments are of a technical nature. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I would like to ask for the adoption of a legislative proposal for an amendment to the Customs Convention concluded in Geneva on 14 November 1975 concerning the international carriage of goods by TIR means. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. No one came forward in writing. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I would like to ask Mr Balázs Rákossy, State Secretary, if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak again. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the draft law on the temporary importation of goods in Istanbul, on 26 June 1990, and on the publication of amendments to its annexes, pending closure. The submission is T/1506. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Balázs Rákossy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-14-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Administrative Commission of the World Customs Organisation Istanbul Convention has drawn up amendments to the International Convention on the Temporary Import of Goods, which will enter into force on 3 November 2014. The amendment provides an opportunity to use the paper-based international customs document, the so-called ATA card, in electronic form. At the same time, the customs document shall continue to serve as a customs declaration, enabling the identification of the goods and the internationally valid guarantee to cover import duties and taxes. The Convention will now cover a more precise and clear definition of the marking of containers, thereby reducing the safety risks involved in the transport of containers. Hungary is an active contracting party to the international convention on which the bill is based, and the amendments are of a technical nature. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, I ask for the adoption of a bill declaring amendments to the Convention of 26 June 1990 and its Annexes on the temporary importation of goods in Istanbul. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. No one came forward in writing. I'll see if anyone wants to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/1507. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-14-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In addition to EU harmonisation, it was necessary to revise the Aviation Act in order to clarify the tasks of the administrative authorities cooperating in the field of aviation security and to monitor the transfer of dangerous goods by air more effectively. The bill also contains the necessary changes in the aviation security field due to the organisational changes that have taken place in the meantime and clarifies the rules for the take-over of aviation security activities. The process of taking over was not previously regulated, which could make it difficult to take effective action. The current amendment will ensure a level of aviation security. If the operator of the aerodrome does not perform his duties properly, the security checks and patrol shall be carried out at the operator's expense by the organisation set up to carry out general police duties. In this case, the application of restrictions or even the closure of an airport may be avoided as soon as possible by the implementation of the take-over decision. On the basis of the Union Regulations, it is also necessary to repeal the provisions on the type and technical suitability of certain aircraft falling within Union regulatory powers. The regulation should be reviewed for aircraft not subject to Community standards. The amendment to the Aviation Act is justified by the regulation of the European Parliament and Council Regulation establishing a Single European Sky under which air traffic services providers should be designated at State level in the country's airspace. The purpose of the amendment is to establish appropriate implementing measures. The transfer of dangerous goods by air is a complex activity involving aviation safety, for which research, testing and official supervision of relevant knowledge are justified. It is also appropriate to grant legal authorisation for the establishment of detailed rules at the level of a government regulation. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Aviation safety and security are our fundamental interests, and it is therefore essential that the regulatory environment with the right legal background is established, and it is clearly important to keep this under constant review. To this end, the bill sets out a few brief proposals. In view of all this, I ask the Parliament and the honourable Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-minute time frame. Two of them have indicated their intention, two groups. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-10-14-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2004, since the accession of the EU, in the field of aviation, where we have previously managed the conventions with bilateral agreements, there has been a significant change, since the European Union has a separate negotiating position on these issues. We need to keep following legislation there by harmonising legislation, which is what today's bill is about, which is being debated. In practice, these legislative activities are carried out in the field of aircraft safety, airport safety and air traffic management, mainly in three areas, according to the judgment of the Open Air Service. We need to amend the previous rules, the previous conventions on a continuous basis. In the current situation, it is the Single European Sky, the Single European Sky Convention, that is to say, on the basis of which we must follow these amendments. With these, we can ensure that the country is not subject to infringement procedures. These amendments concern practically a series of EU directives. Here, Mr Secretary of State also touched on the main points. In particular, the 2005 CLXXXIV on the professional investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport and other transport events. As regards the amendment of the Act, these mainly represent almost technical amendments. Therefore, on the part of the Group, we ask this House to support and accept the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-14-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-10-14-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have said several times here in Parliament since 2010, since the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has been involved in the fact that Jobbik is a party to the Order. The party of the order, and in our numerous speeches, in our bill, in our legislative proposal, we made a motion to increase, strengthen and strengthen public order, public security. [[18.50]] For its part, Jobbik supports any bill, any amendment that relates to it. Obviously, safety at airports, safety in air traffic, is of particular importance, as we have seen several times over the past 20-30-40 years that certain criminal groups have specialized in committing crimes in relation to them and are trying to draw the public's attention to themselves. Obviously, this is also why, when there is no adequate security, accidents, or even deliberate incidents, such as when an air accident occurred, as last time in Ukraine, when, apparently, a serious tragedy occurred in the airspace due to local struggles. These should be reduced to a minimum or reduced to zero. For example, one of the stages of this is the law in which we are trying to unify it, which is what we are trying to get ahead of. Obviously, when we're talking about air traffic and tightening up? in particular, if we mention 11 September 2001, when we saw what happened in the world, the restrictions on air traffic, which was already excessive in many cases, since there were virtually many times passenger traffic checks at a level that violated personal rights? Two general principles are at odds: on the one hand, the restriction of personal freedoms, personal rights and, on the other hand, the safety of passenger traffic. This is where the right balance must be found, with which safety is present and there is no such problem in air traffic. Obviously, there are a lot of background laws that we are dealing with here, which define the possibility of who can enter areas that are blocked from air traffic, i.e. areas that are closed from passenger traffic, the checks they must undergo to enter there, the rules and regulations they have in entry. Obviously, if they are not properly regulated and they are not followed by a country, an airline, an international airport, these problems could indeed arise. Then there is a fundamental problem that Jobbik often draws attention to: international legislation, the European Union standard and the diversity of Hungarian legislation where appropriate, not harmonisation. According to the general principles, we do not agree on the part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement that the European Union has a fundamental influence on Hungarian legislation, in such a way that, under the heading of legal harmonisation, we practically take over the rules of international law, European Union standards, and that it is mandatory for Hungary. This is generally not supported by Jobbik Movement for Hungary. However, this is an exceptional case or opportunity where it is not certain that it is a problem if we follow EU legal standards. After all, air traffic in Hungary is obviously an international passenger traffic. Therefore, if there are other regulations in Hungary than in Austria and in France and in Italy, these problems may arise, since these rules must be essentially uniform, not to mention that international experience will strengthen the safety of air traffic. International experience is strengthened when it is acquired and, on the other hand, in Hungary and other countries, more advanced methods and more advanced legislation are applied. So, in this area, standardisation, standardisation in the legislation is particularly good, and it is also right, as the bill at the end contains, that appropriate professional training and exchanges of experience with other countries should be carried out. Obviously, this is also a very important thing, since this will predestinate the defence organisation to function much better, to have much greater international experience and to avoid any unwanted events that might otherwise occur. We therefore consider it important from this point of view that the provisions necessary for the implementation of the three Commission implementing regulations are laid down in this legislative text. This is where the Hungarian legal system is united. This legislation mainly contains technical amendments, and, as we have already heard, it introduces technical changes, so in many cases there are almost only technical amendments. Article 7 I would like to point out in part in the amendment, where there are only three words, but in the development of air traffic in Hungary, this is the stop of the 7th century. §. This is about whether an airport can be an airport of common use. This is important since the reasons for the bill already clearly state that the papal airport would be such a designated common use airport, both for military and civil air traffic. Its justification also states that for reasons such as cost-effectiveness, time savings and other reasons, it would be advisable to have a multimodal transformation in the case of the papal base of the Hungarian Defence Service, which would be suitable for land, air, domestic and water logistics services, in addition to having military and civil applications. However, in other cases, this amendment also allows for a common use airport. The legislation also covers the payment of charges that may be charged for the use of the aircraft. There is an important regulation here that these charges should be published, so that it is clear to everyone what cost is involved in the right to use an airport. It is clear that compensation may also be requested if the non-public airport is used. The regulation of road safety will be improved in accordance with Articles 9 and 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. In addition, if a type does not have a type-certificate, it may be granted an individual permit to fly in the air. They're obvious. Although this has been regulated before, this legislation makes it a little more uniform, we will find out whether the certificates of airworthiness are valid for an indefinite period of time or whether this competence remains to be reviewed periodically. Furthermore, aviation security is an important part of the legislation. It is very important to point out that aviation security is primarily the responsibility of the operator of the airport, so it is his responsibility and duty to carry out security tasks and to establish a safety service, and to entrust an external security service with this. Indeed, there may be cases where this air safety, security safety is inadequate, inadequately supplied, and can be checked by an appropriate licence body. A specific body of the police may act in this case, and if, during the inspection, you see that the security service does not perform its duties properly, in this case, the police may take over their care. This is interesting again, and there are guarantee rules on whether the police are entitled to take over their duties, whether their action was lawful, because if the police take a decision to take it, these decisions can be enforced immediately. So there will be a legal event immediately, and there are appropriate guarantee rules here too, although the appeal and the possibility of revision are unfortunately not drawn up in this law. I find that a little shorthanded. However, it includes the fact that the police can only use this authority if they have previously drawn attention to shortcomings or to work that is not properly carried out. Are you required to draw attention in writing and in a decision, and if, after the expiry of the time limit laid down in the decision, the appropriate work is not restored, is it only in this case that the police can take over the safety of the airport in public air traffic instead of the safety service? In that case, you can take over. [[19.00]] Is it completely natural that what is regulated here is that aviation security is clearly cost-effective, since it is necessary to establish a security service, even if it is possible for the police to provide it? Do we see it from the law? These tasks. In this case, there must be costs, which is also regulated by the law, who bears these costs, and we will know that the State, on the one hand, the operator of the airport and, on the other hand, the operator of the airlines bear these costs, but these costs may be passed on to passengers. The legislation also regulates the need to review whether the safety of these international airports is adequate. In this case, a supervisory fee must be paid to the supervisory body, which is mandatory for more than 250 thousand passengers per year, 50 HUF per passenger, but up to 500 million HUF for this payment. Here, in the last line, the legislator states in this paragraph that the level of the consumer price index increases automatically annually. I think that if we start from the economic policy that we have been told what is going on here, if there is deflation and not inflation, then whether the prize is falling. Well, there's no regulation for that, but that could happen. Only this supervisory fee can be used in connection with the performance of aviation security tasks. So this is a fully targeted form of use. I am glad that it is in the legislation that we do not go about as with 1 percent of the grass that taxpayers have paid for the competent ministry, who has 1 billion forints available in the last marketing year to exterminate the ragweed, and in comparison, only a fraction of this has been used on the ragweed, and it has been spent on everything since ministerial workers' severance payments, which is not a good thing, and this should also be used for restraint and aviation protection. Another important area that may still fit into my time, and this is the exercise of defence background checks, which are regulated in detail by the law. This is necessary to ensure that those who enter the security restricted area will enter the so-called SRA area, who are authorised to enter this area. Obviously, this is also one of the most fundamental interests of air traffic safety as to who can enter and which territory. The regulation of this and the proper implementation of the security background check are very important tasks, and we know that these areas, these security restricted areas, are restricted to those who already have this protection background check, or those who enter this area accompanied by such a person, and that, obviously, during that time, they must also be subject to gradual supervision by those accompanying them. Other persons should not be allowed to enter this area under the legislation. Here the legislation sets out in detail the criminal record and the other persons who are not allowed to enter this area, and cannot pass an investigation into this security restricted area. And in the remaining 20 seconds: the rules of conflict of interest are also regulated by this legislation, which already exists in relation to legislation on air, rail and water transport accidents. Here we can learn the detailed rules of conflict of interest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-14-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the other factions if they'd like to put in a lead speaker. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply may now speak if he wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. That's not what the independent representatives are using. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. I'm asking if there's an applicant. [[No signal.]] No. I am asking you if you are applying for further speeches. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr László Tasó, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-14-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I just wanted to thank you for the factions. I made it clear from the comments that support the factions' position. I would like only to make one signal to Mr Gyüre, that the receipt of the check will be regulated by a later government regulation. He mentioned this in his comment, so thank you very much for your support for our presentation. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On this day's day, an independent Member, László Varju, came forward with the title of the defence policy of the government. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-117	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, I am forced to speak again or again on this subject because a few weeks ago, when the Government promised me a written reply after such a comment, so far, this has not happened, and I therefore believe that there have been so many changes in the circumstances that it follows that this defence policy needs to be said. But what's this about, what's behind this address? Behind this title, the government has found many areas where it believes that it is taking action and protecting traders who have been involved in tobacco trafficking and protecting it, but now they do not have to deal with it, because it gives it to its friends, and it is not their responsibility. Or he protected pension savings from having to be used by anyone because he simply confiscated it, incorporated it into the state budget and used it himself, instead of otherwise achieving the real purpose of savings lasting for more than ten years, and people who thought that they would be supplementing the state pension for their old age or retirement age would not be like that for 2 million 900 thousand people because they were protected from it. But they also protected, in word, landowners who imagined their farming on their land. Here we can put the word "defense" in quotes, because what's happened in the country in the last year and a half in the field, I think it's unparalleled. It is unprecedented what has happened throughout the country, but I highlight what happened in Hortobágy, because from the farms operating 10-15 years ago, the land on which families have lived has been withdrawn with an imaginary tender, and their future has been planned, and they wanted to give it to their children. On Hortobágy there are many such families who have been deprived of this opportunity. I think the government will have to deal with this. It is because the government has promised to carry out the Kehi investigation after the evaluation of the applications, because it has become apparent to everyone that this has happened illegally, but since the spring elections have taken place, the result of the Kehi investigation has been refused to be made public by the government, and it is no longer interesting what happens to people. [[19.10]] Therefore, on 31 August, when these contracts expired, these people were brought into impossible circumstances. Even though the petition came to the government for help, it was rejected and ignored by the government. It is therefore necessary to speak out in the interests of these farmers. There is also a need to speak because there has been a new development. In itself, the death of one of the affected, András Váradi, in an accident in the last few days, the circumstances and the conditions under which this accident took place, I believe that the government and the competent organisations have a special responsibility to investigate this precisely. I therefore draw your attention to the fact that, in this case, I think that there is a need to make public and reassure everyone that the reason here is not that András Váradi had to die, because he knows too much about what is happening in that area, because there are signs where this has to be taken into account. For example, press reports show that those who participated in the demonstration, such as András Váradi, are subject to retortion. The farmers have suffered a retaliation by the NAV and have invaded their economies, and that is why we need to return to this in the next few days. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2014-10-14-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. There was no signal from the government to respond to what was said. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MEP from MSZP, applied for a post-meeting address:. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Sports Federation of the Hungarian Hearing Damages has asked the Hungarian Olympic Committee to pay state rewards to the Hungarian heroes of the 17th deaf chess club. However, this request was not fulfilled by the Hungarian Olympic Committee. It failed to comply because it could not comply with the current government decree, which was created by the government in 2013. Does this legislation say that a state reward can only be granted if an athlete is present in a competition where he is not organised according to an international qualification system? Is deaf chess club like that? At least 40 states will take part. It is a general rule that states of at least three continents take part in this. However, 18 states from Europe and Asia participated in the 17th deaf chess game. It can be seen, then, that a single deaf chess club is already incapable of complying with the legal requirements. Therefore, despite the Hungarian success, even though the deaf chess players, the standing of this athlete's heroes in Hungary, the state's remuneration was lost. Mr Miklós Matuska, chess coordinator, has asked for the help of Secretary General Bence Szabó, nothing has happened because of the reverse legislation. I think the solution is to amend the regulation. It should be possible for deaf chess players and all successful athletes to receive support for what they do for what they achieve. Needless to say, athletes who have some kind of disability struggle with superhuman strength every day to take the good news of our country all over the world. These are people who know that every day there is a world where equal opportunities and tolerance are very rare. This is true not only of deaf chess players, but of all those who want to show that they are entitled to an entire nation's proud achievement. Dear House, We could say that there is no reward for deaf chess players based on objective rules, since everyone cannot be supported. But I'm asking if these rules are right. Can we agree that successful Hungarian athletes in deaf chess will be excluded from the support? On that basis, we could say any number. Stay out of the water polo support because there's a continent where they don't play this sport? Should we take kayak-kenu sport out of support because there are countries where there is no such sport? That wouldn't be right either. Dear House, Between 27 September and 2 October 2012, the Deaf World chess Championship was held in Kazakhstan with 27 countries, where Ferenc Frink won a silver medal. Another Hungarian success, another Hungarian medal, another glory for our country. Half of Ferenc Frink's participation in the World Championship was partly paid by himself and half by the Sports Association of the Hungarian Hearing Damaged. Do you find it fair that, for this glorious result, you cannot receive any support under the law? I'm not. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2014-10-14-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Member that the representative of the Government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Did Congresswoman Márta Demeter apply for a post-meeting speech? Isn't that right? [[Márta Demeter: Yes.]] ? , Member of the Hungarian Socialist Party:. More respect for Hungary! It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-14-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Hungarian government usually responds to the criticisms of the Hungarian government abroad by claiming that the criticisms are not for the government, but for Hungary and the Hungarian people. After a published foreign criticism, the government spokesperson or Péter Szijjártó, standing up, demands more respect for the Hungarians and more respect. And if all this is not enough, the country will be covered with posters for Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, it is not within the framework of such a speech in Parliament to discuss all the criticisms and reactions of foreign countries that have been received from Hungary, which have been the second and third Orbán governments in recent years. Some, however, are certainly noteworthy. Péter Szijjártó, Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, lectured the Swedish Government's Minister for European Affairs in mid-August, accusing him of making clear lies about Hungary and the Hungarian people. However, the Swedish minister only exposed the current Hungarian reality, claiming that the Orbáns regard Russia as a political model, treating the illiberal state and work-based society as a value instead of liberal democracy, and treating the defenders and NGOs as obstacles and calling them ministers of foreign interests. [[19.20]] Two weeks later, at the end of August, the Norwegian Minister for European Affairs also caused a problem for State Secretary Péter Szijjártó. In this case, he also claimed that the Minister's statement was based on uncredited, vague generalisations and ignored the most fundamental facts. The Norwegian minister, like his Swedish colleague, has provoked the anger of the Deputy Head of Hungarian diplomacy by saying that the Hungarian government is turning its back on the West, and Viktor Orbán would defend foreign influence with a spiritual iron dome, breaking up with Western dogmas and ideologies, and would like to create an illiberal state. Dear House, Péter Szijjártó's outbursts, which overwhelm the fundamental rules of diplomacy, but which protect the honour of the mundé, are also totally unacceptable in the light of the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was discussing the construction of the illiberal state in his speech in Tusnadfürdő this year. But where did the Swedish or Norwegian minister talk about Hungary and the Hungarian people? Nowhere! Both spoke only of the Hungarian government which had lost its credibility, which had been internationally isolated in Hungary, eliminating its federal policy, calling out civil society organisations to serve foreign interests, the government which could never be identified with Hungary and the Hungarian people. Dear House, I am not a bad guy, I can eat with a knife, fork, the Prime Minister's sentence, the stubborn defiance, the confrontation with traffic in Hungary's foreign policy over the past four years. The keywords to this are the proper communication: we gave you some coke, some salesmen fell off, and we gave you some friendly swings in the back of the head. And if all this was not clear enough for our allies and partners, Viktor Orbán made it clear that he did this in a European Union called a rural place. Not only has the Hungarian government got into trouble with our European partners, the confrontation that has taken place in the past few days has also been unprecedented in the history of Hungarian-American relations. The Hungarian government and its activities have been described with unsearchable words in leading American newspapers, but the criticisms have now been formulated at the highest level. It has not yet occurred that a former or currently in office American president has spoken out against the Hungarian government's actions, openly criticizing the conditions in Hungary. The reaction of the Hungarian government did not wait for you much, but its content was otherwise envelopable. In addition to not being integrated into a dialogue between allies, it is both politically and professionally stupid if the newly appointed leader of Hungarian diplomacy accuses the President of the United States of being uninformed. Ladies and gentlemen, Orbán has not been invited to the White House in four years, which is unprecedented in the history of Hungarian-American relations after the regime change. It seems that a possible white house invitation is going to have to wait a long time. Nevertheless, I would like to ask if it is not strange for the Prime Minister that everyone is attacking us from the east to the west. I think that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are looking in a curved mirror. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-14-122	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 20 October. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 7:22 p.m.]]
