u2014-06-10-0	Dear Parliament, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Tibor Pogácsás will help me. Dear House, I declare that the parliamentary decision amending the House Rule of Decision has been published, so that we will apply these provisions at today's sitting. I would also like to inform you that all Members of Parliament and ethnic advocates have submitted their own declarations of property and family members within the deadline. The former Members of Parliament and the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank also fulfilled their obligation to declare assets on a deadline due to the termination of their mandate. The declarations of property are open to the public and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. Dear Parliament, I declare that Giricz Vera has made a conflict of interest statement against a Ruthenian nationalist representing the Russin Minority Alliance, President Tibor Ujaczki. I've issued an application to the immunity committee to examine it. Dear House, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable National Assembly that the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Together - the Party of the Transformers, the Democratic Coalition, the Dialogue for Hungary, and the Hungarian Liberal Party, has been nominated from the national list of the joint party list. The committee for the examination of mandates held before the meeting and examined the regularity of Zsuzsanna Szelényi's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear House, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-1	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 26 May 2014, Gordon Bajnai resigned from the mandate of the joint party list of Members of Parliament set up by MSZP, Together, DK, PM, LMP nominating organisations in the general elections of 2014. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 1115/2014. By decision of 30 May 2014, it was issued to Zsuzsanna Szelényi. The decision was final on 2 June 2014 at 4 p.m. On 4 June 2014, Dr. András Patyi, Chairman of the National Election Committee, presented the credentials to the representative. XXXVI of 2012 on the functioning of the Parliament Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules OGY Decision 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Article, the immunity committee examined at its meeting today the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Zsuzsanna Szelényi, on the basis of which the following decision was taken unanimously, without abstention or vote against. The Committee recommends to the Hungarian Parliament that it justify the regularity of Zsuzsanna Szelényi's credentials and thus its mandate. However, the Committee also concluded that Zsuzsanna Szelényi currently holds a position incompatible with the mandate of its representatives. Therefore, on the basis of the relevant provisions, Zsuzsanna Szelényi must terminate the conflict of interest within 30 days of the confirmation of his mandate and initiate the termination of the conflict of interest. Until the above announcement, Zsuzsanna Szelényi shall not exercise the rights arising from the mandate of his representatives and shall not be entitled to remuneration. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-2	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the mandate examination cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. So I ask this House whether it justifies Zsuzsanna Szelényi's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously confirmed Zsuzsanna Szelényi's mandate by 125 votes in favour. Now I'm gonna ask the congresswoman to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to read the words of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament, please rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Zsuzsanna Szelényi steps into the middle of the room. Mrs. Loránt Violin will read the words of the oath.]]
u2014-06-10-3	I, Zsuzsanna Szelényi, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-06-10-4	Dear Parliament, After taking the oath, I ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Zsuzsanna Szelényi and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Zsuzsanna Szelényi was first congratulated by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, József Tobiás, Antal Rogán, Dr. András Schiffer, Dr. János Latorcai, Mihály Varga, Tamás Sneider, Timea Szabó, Ágnes Vadai and Gábor Fodor.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the new Member of Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szászfalvi, Member of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda today with the title "Remembrance of István Tisza." Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to thank the Speaker, the Government, the artists and everyone who has done a great deal to make Kossuth Square the main square of the nation again and to have Count István Tisza's memorial on it again. This is a great satisfaction for the nation, for the honour and memory of István Tisza and for the order of the Hungarian world, because after so many lies, humiliation, extortion and dishonesty, we Hungarians can finally remember the person and oeuvre of Prime Minister István Tisza. His memory has always been alive in the heart of true Hungarians, but we have now restored him publicly and in a manner worthy of his rights in the way that Sándor Reményik preached on November 3, 1918. I quote: " But not when it falls around the night, / many more hearts light him up, / It digs the memory of time deeper / in the bosoms - and it will be resurrected. / The country can hum, no matter what you drum, / Yet in the depths of the hearts he finds himself on his shield, / Resten's shield, like an iron funeral, gentle dead - and yet power. " [[13.20]] Dear House, October 31, 1918 is a cesure in Hungarian history. The barbarian horde of Mihály Károlyi is assassinating the vulnerable István Tisza. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes.]] This monstrous, outrageous event led directly to the ignominious, bloody communist dictatorship of the Republic of the Council and the Trianon disaster. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The descendants of the murderers destroyed the beautiful Tisza monument, and they wanted to destroy the Tisza monument itself. But as in so many cases in our history, Prime Minister István Tisza could not be silenced. His spiritual heritage and example could not be wiped out on the basis of our history and on the meat tablets of Hungarian hearts. Gyula Szekfű, our renowned historian, summarizes the historical merits of István Tisza: " István Tisza saved and made our state life continuous, its historical merit. He was the bastion and guarantee of Hungarian independence, constitutionality and state existence. " István Tisza was a real politician, characterized by the principles of will, action, commitment in principle, courage. All extremes that were dangerous to the survival and future of the Hungarian nation were rejected and fought against them. The essence of his policy was concern and responsibility for the nation's future. He fought the war for the last possible moment, and despite every lie he insisted on, he did a socially progressive and committed scientific and political work, only to turn over the Tisza monographs. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes.]] He himself puts it this way: " The legal position, freedom and independence of the Hungarian nation cannot be destroyed by anyone other than the Hungarian nation itself. " This clearly placed him on the ground of freedom, independence, constitutionality and responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, This is how Gyula Kornis describes the example of his political size in a 1937 speech. " In his example, the most effective way is to realize that politics cannot be a fair of vanity, a flattering agora of popularity, but a public practice of a strict moral approach to the nation, only a forum for serious determination and strength in the public interest, a forum for hard public service and nerve - killing. " As a dedicated Reformed man, diocese, and then church district janitor, his whole life was characterized by a consistent puritan Calvinist approach and lifestyle. At the same time, his dedicated Calvinism did not hinder or even stimulate ecumenical openness prior to his time. Dear House, His murderers and the spiritual offspring, then and present - day haters, did not know what Jesus said: " Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. " Have a blessed memory and an example of his oeuvre for all Hungarian generations. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-6	Dear House, József Tobias, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-06-10-7	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, " Those who work ten times more should pay ten times more taxes! " - Mihály Varga, former Minister of National Economy of the Orbán Government, said last week before the Committee on Budgets. If you work ten times more, you pay ten times more taxes. - Minister Mihály Varga thus justified the justice of the single-key personal income tax system and why the government does not want to change that. This sentence perfectly restores the essence of the current government's social policy. It gives an accurate picture of how Fidesz is related to the real situation of Hungarian people. The sentence was not about paying more taxes, but about paying more taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government would therefore like to have an overtime hospital nurse, department store seller and small business operator pay more taxes than the government's privileged economic circles. According to the current government, this is fair and fair. The essence of the Prime Minister's social policy has not changed after 6 April. Eighty percent of society got worse. This is also shown by the experts of the century's end, so close to you. You have helped those who did not need it, but you have created ideal relations for the privileged in Hungary. Who are we talking about? And before we get caught up in talking about social groups, allow me to put it very simply. We are talking about the Public Machine Empire, which paid more than HUF 22 billion in dividends last year. If you can believe the news, it is famous in the offshore gas business, MET Zrt. belongs to the interests of the Prime Minister's personal good friend István Garancsi. He also paid more than 54 billion forints of dividends to his owners hiding behind offshore companies. In 2013, Lőrinc Mészáros was able to withdraw HUF 1.2 billion of dividends from the company in which his sales did not even reach this level in 2010. The government's favorite media agency, I.M.G., is on a similar upward path. media agency that paid 350 million HUF to its owners in 2013. In total, 2013 was a very successful year for groups of companies of economic interest. They were able to collect hundreds of millions or even billions of dividends. This was mainly due to government and municipal orders from taxpayers' forints, public money and EU funds. Over the past four years, we have heard a great deal from you that fair and equitable public burdens are the basis for the policy of the current government. Is it fair that the Public Machine and its associates contribute to public burdens in the same proportion as an overtime hospital nurse, store clerk, or a small contractor, while not enjoying the benefits in the same proportion? Not according to the MSZP. This is neither fair nor equitable. The MSZP therefore proposes that everyone pay more taxes on income from dividends. A company which reaches at least half of its turnover either from domestic or EU sources of public money or from its business relationship with a public-owned company shall pay three-quarters of its unfair profits to the budget as compared to its turnover. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to bear public burdens, then do not be content to talk about extra profit and multi-avoidance and to impose penalty taxes, as you are about to do at the advertising tax, so to speak. Introduce all domestic businesses that are based solely on public funds or EU funds, where neither knowledge nor ability are available, but have very good connections. The budget needs these revenues, and it needs both education and combating child poverty. Therefore, I ask you to support the fact that there is a tax in Hungary that, as long as a company acquires more than 50 per cent of its domestic or EU resources, it should tax, and perhaps that 25-30 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises will also be able to get a job in Hungary in the next four years. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-10-8	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Tobias has given his statement before the agenda entitled "Treatment of public burdens. " We don't give minister's answers, but if I did, I'd say, " Look who's talking. " [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr Tobias was here in this Parliament, he has been here for quite a long time, so he could experience what public burdens meant during the MSZP administration and what it means now. [[13.30]] Public burden-sharing meant that, as a first step, family tax relief was abolished and that families with one and two children could not take advantage of it. Public burden-sharing meant, during the period of MSZP governments, that small businesses received new tax burdens. Let us remember that not only the business tax went up from 16 to 19 percent, but also increased the level of the general sales tax on businesses, which was very significant, so that the reduction after the elections would rise again. This government has put public burdens on a wider footing. Honourable Congressman, It may also be known to you that we have introduced a family tax reduction, which we have made possible for one, two, three or more children. From 1 January now, the family tax relief allows 280 000 families to benefit from this benefit. I think that's the real burden. Yes, what you're implying is the operation of foreign-owned enterprises that have to take their share of public burdens. It is not a secret, in 2010, when we started governance, we said that not only people, but not just families, should always be affected by the increase in burdening, but that we will also involve those actors who have gone better during the crisis, as well as those who have caused budget problems and debt growth. Yes, it was telecommunications companies, banks, companies in the energy sector. If it hurts you, Congressman, it hurts, but I think that on 6 April people gave an opinion on this and accepted this kind of change in burden-sharing. They were small and medium-sized enterprises. For small and medium-sized enterprises, we have introduced that they should be taxed only at a rate of 10 per cent on the 19 per cent corporate tax, but if this is not the case for them, they can tax much more preferentially through these two taxes than before. Congressman asked who was worse off. Obviously, those who have found all kinds of ways and ways to avoid taxes have been worse. Mr President, you know better than I do that offshore companies that received significant public or European Union funding between 2007 and 2013 will now be excluded from these proposals in the next period. And if what hurts you is that domestic-owned companies have access to public procurement, then I'm very sorry for that. In recent years, almost a hundred percent of foreign-owned enterprises have been offered access through public procurement. This has really changed. For the companies you mentioned, I would like to recall to you that these companies are currently offered the opportunity to participate in public procurement between 17 and 19 percent, but the vast majority of them are still won by foreign companies to this day. So I think your problem is not real. It's a matter of dividend tax. Honourable Congressman, The kind of approach that you make up essentially wants to carry on the culture of envy in the Hungarian Parliament. Why do you want to punish businesses, whether small or large, why do you want to punish citizens who gain profits with integrity, compliance with tax and social security rules? If it hurts you, I'll have to consider this a personal problem, talk to these ladies or gentlemen in person. I think this is not a communist majority parliament. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] We are not against enrichment, growth, we want honest businesses in Hungary, whether small or large, to have access to profits and pay off their employees. And what you attribute to me was a response to the socialist question at the Commission hearing, when you challenged the single-key tax and fought for progressive taxation in Hungary again. Congressman, that progressive tax rate was 32 and 34 per cent against the current 16 per cent tax rate. If you're thinking of raising taxes, the majority of the current government will not contribute to this. We do not want to raise taxes, but we want to reduce taxes for families and individuals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-10	It is now time for Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, on behalf of the LMP, to say: "There is always a lower. " Here you go.
u2014-06-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Hungary has no luck with the re-elected governments. We experienced it once in 2006 and now we can relive that there is always a lower level. The third Orbán government seems to be worse than the second, and the second Orbán government was worse than the first. To put it simply, you, ladies and gentlemen, have started very hard. The government has not yet been established, the future strong man, John Lazarus, has already declared vengeance against the civilians to whom the sources of government failure to reach others. Of course, in John Lazarus's political communications sorcerer's kitchen, you can make up stories about who LMP is and who isn't, but in the background, there's only one thing that you can't comply with your agreement with neither the Union nor the Norwegian foundation, and people who can't work without their support can see the damage. And the fact that John Lazarus, a man who travels millions of public money in completely unclear circumstances and then repays his own allowance, attacks us clearly shows that the May Other is doing his job well. Of course, János Lázár can now feel very in the saddle - I might say that he is the little prime minister here, as political insiders say - because last week the Parliament seduced the hearing of ministers. I've had the pleasure of being there for more auditions like this myself. It was typical to ask questions, to try to answer several times, and to smile kindly several times. They will probably not do anything else for the remainder of the cycle, as it has become clear that they will not be the relevant decision makers. In this country, zombie ministries have been established, which simply will not have real influence on the areas they control under their name, and it will simply not be possible to determine to whom what belongs in this country. You will always point up when you want to talk about something meaningful, saying that things don't come down here. I've had this experience with Minister Miklós Seszták. I asked him who exactly would put renewable energy sources in this country, who would decide on these issues. He said it wasn't him. I asked Minister János Lázár whether he would decide, and he said that he would not; he would only look at international trends. Who in this country will decide on renewable energy sources? Perhaps Mr Simicska will make the decisions, and then Minister Lazarus will see how to justify it, and Minister Seszta will implement it? Will Hungary look like this in the next four years? Look, my real problem isn't that you don't have the ego area, you have the power, but that you won't be able to handle matters. If there is a problem in education, say there is no chalk in school, if rural development stops, if there are still no real jobs in this country, will the leaders of the zombie wallets be required to coordinate with those who have these problems every day? And you will obviously spread your hands and say that decisions are made elsewhere. Four years ago, we said that such a mammoth construction, which includes education, health and human areas, would simply not work. And who was right? We're right! Now they're going through this whole government, and they're going to finish this by throwing the ministries apart in different cities in the country. Look, it is a fundamental question that in this country we share the power of Budapest in some way by putting the countryside in position. But what you're about to do isn't about that at all. You don't really think that the whole point of this megalomaniac landscaping is to put the countryside in a position in this country, do you? The result of this will be that the government will be even more elusive, less accountable, and the separation will also complicate the day-to-day work, unless you want to fly non-governmental helicopters in the country, which will be paid by taxpayers. At least they won't be able to do anything that makes Minister János Lázár, as is said to have been said in the editorial office of Origo, and then he would be sad. That is, nothing that would hinder this concentration of power. In addition, paranoia has completely publicly dominated the government, not only outside of Fidesen, but also within Fidesen there is apparently a full struggle. In the press, they are already openly guessing which oligarchs of Fidesz are hitting with exactly who within the camp. They may not even know for themselves which of Fidesz's near-big businesses has chosen the largest commercial television, but they are also quick to submit a draft advertising tax that makes it impossible to operate. A draft that is of no use to the world is only intended to provide the press with the most unnecessary public advertisements, increasing transparency and public propaganda in this country. Dear Lords of the Minister, I very much hope that in 2018, you will no longer be able to make a living. [[13.40]]
u2014-06-10-12	The obligation to reply lies with Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-13	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that almost none of my fellow Members have the ability to talk about so much in five minutes and as quickly as the Member. Therefore, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I should like to express my appreciation for the fact that you are doing your job so thoroughly, and your speech is eclectic with such eclectic, baroque exaggerations. Still, I'd like to try to answer some questions, perhaps concerning the merit of government work. Firstly, first of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who participated in the Commission's work and could have been part of the hearing of my fellow ministers. I believe that all ministers have received the questions after which the committees have been able to make their decisions on suitability. My fellow ministers were at the disposal of the committees, and in the committees, Members were able to ask their questions in a fair, fair and good way, as many representatives of the LMP Group have done in committee. I believe that the committee hearings have taken place in the last 24 years, leaving nothing to be desired. I would like to make it clear that the government, now strengthened by the majority of the legislation, believes that the executive power is responsible for the internal structure of the executive power, the current government and the prime minister, the prime minister of the Hungarian executive power, for setting up his own work organisation and the government executive power system. Thank you to my fellow Members, who supported by their majority votes the Government's decision on the Statute, which was published late on 6 June. Of course, you can answer all the questions you are interested in. But if this does not satisfy your curiosity to my fellow Member, then at any time any of my fellow ministers will be at your disposal and we will try to be at your disposal with accurate data and knowledge to find the person to whom you can ask questions. If I may, I would briefly respond to your specific questions in a few sentences. With regard to the Norwegian fund, which, I believe, will be discussed before the House today, since the subject of the Kehi investigation, if I have seen it correctly, is one of the immediate questions, one thing to decide: does the money allocated by the Norwegian fund constitute public money in Hungary or not? If it is public money, the manner in which public funds are used is perfectly clear. You have forced a number of court trials, forced a court decision to make public public money. If the Norwegian fund's money is public money, so far the whole country has known, then, of course, all public money is public. That's the essence of LMP's policy. I do not understand how, as a decent, prepared and well-intentioned representative, you can stand next to an organisation that wants to hide data, while, by the way, you are asking the government to have full publicity and transparency in the use of public funds. I do not understand why you are on this side, Congresswoman, and why you do not say that if there is no secret about the Norwegian fund, then you should publish all the data. It's very simple: put it in front of the country, who has won the money on the basis of what considerations and considerations. Since this is not considered appropriate by the representatives of the Foundation and the Norwegian Government, they believe that the money from the Norwegian Fund is neither public money nor public, therefore, under the legal order of the use of public funds, and under the Public Finance Act, which states that the support provided by foreign governments can be controlled or even controlled by Kehi for Hungary, as well as the Public Finance Act mentions that the use of the funds that we declare in government regulations is also public, and that the Norwegian Fund is such money, Kehi's right and duty to control it. If the Norwegian fund has nothing to be ashamed of or hide, then surely the Kehi investigation will end with a completely positive decision and a positive result, and then we can rest assured that the distribution of money went well. I don't know why you have to be afraid that the country's publicity is now exceptionally curious about how the organization you support shares the money. When you want to know how the government distributes the money, then, of course, everything goes public. So you're only on the side of selective publicity, if I'm not mistaken. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the pro-government benches.]] As regards the placement of ministries, Speaker László Kövér contacted the government several times after 2010, according to which the executive authority has no place in the legislative building. That, I believe, is still the position that the Speaker represents today. As far as I know, the Prime Minister has been informed of this. In addition, the Prime Minister called on several members of the government to examine the possibility of discussing the possibility of certain ministries, certain parts of the executive power, being in the countryside. I think the countryside deserves this, Congresswoman. As a rural representative, I believe that there can be a state authority in the countryside in Hungary. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-14	Mr Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Congresswoman, please. There's no address for your speech, so I'm gonna need you to tell me for me.
u2014-06-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The address of my speech is "Isn't the government a vision? ' . For example, it is impossible for a school to operate in Hungary without a curriculum, but it is possible for a prime minister not to participate in a presidential candidate debate. In fact, it is now possible in Hungary, and it is already a daily practice during the Orbán government that there is no longer a government programme to be presented to this House. In fact, they did not have an election programme before the parliamentary election, Mr.Orbán only made the narrow statement that " we will continue." It was their election program. The European Parliament's election would have given you the opportunity to correct this deficiency and to participate in the debate between the list leaders, but Fidesz's European Parliament leader did not think that his ideas should be conflicted with the list leaders of the other parties in a public debate. Today, therefore, the government programme, which was emptied and classified as a cliché parade four years ago, was not presented to the House, which was still being done at the time. I'd like to ask you why. Is it possible that they are now afraid to write down, for example, that a million new jobs will be created by the competition sphere under your governance in ten years? What is the reason for this attitude? Why don't you put your ideas to the public in a perfectly clear, written form, accountable way? There are three answers to this question. On the one hand, they had something to hide, and that's why they were trying to get back into the Parliament and get the majority along the flagship of the reduction. The second answer is that they simply have no vision of how Hungary's strategic problems will be solved. However, people are wondering if there will be a VAT reduction in Hungary, for example. The third answer is that they chose the convenient route and were able to complete this election campaign without having to put any meaningful program on the table. Ministerial hearings would have provided an opportunity to provide answers to these questions and, at least, to give meaningful answers to the questions raised by opposition and, by the way, by pro-government representatives. However, ministerial hearings have also been evacuated to such an extent that in many committees MEPs' speaking opportunities have been limited in time. Thus, it was not possible to ask these questions that we had drawn up in advance. For example, I mentioned the question of VAT reduction, but we could also talk about emigration, which has now become one of the biggest problems in Hungary. We know different estimates of how many Hungarian citizens work abroad. And the Prime Minister called the situation of all these people, economic refugees, an adventure quest, which is obviously not true. So it would be important for them to face this problem at all and call these people home who want to work, want a decent living, but in Hungary they did not find the means to thrive. It seems from the measures they have taken so far that, let alone not want to call them home, they also make it difficult for them to participate in elections, for example, as they did in the parliamentary elections. But we could also talk about the issue of Gypsy-Hungarian coexistence, which has also been burning in Hungary for several decades, and we have seen no solution, no progress, no substantive action over the past four years. If we take the Prime Minister's word seriously that they will continue, unfortunately, it is not expected that we will make progress in this as well during the next government term. If you continue to do what you have started in the previous cycle, for example in the field of education, do you understand that, for example, the KLIK will continue to operate in its current form or continue to withdraw state resources from higher education? Do you continue to say that the demographic emergency has not been stopped? The birth rate continues to decrease year after year, and here, although there were measures, it must be acknowledged, we simply do not see that, for example, the second child would be given more emphasis on the birth of which Hungary has strategic reserves? [[13.50]] We do not know what their position on political crime will be, how they will deal with the abolition of immunity, whether they support the publication of the Member's dual citizenship, and they have also made conflicting statements in this regard in recent years. So I'm asking one of the ministers whether we can rely on meckemaster management or whether there will be a meaningful, accountable government program. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-10-16	I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog.
u2014-06-10-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are indeed continuing, I see, not just us, but you, too, because this is the buffet before the agenda, which has been said in a kind voice, where it lists all our sins from VAT to demography, which gives us no opportunity for a meaningful debate. I, too, could now list a set of measures that I think are clearly drawn up as to what we think about Hungary's future. For you to call this a vision or something else, we call it a vision of a nation strategy, I think it's a matter of detail from this point of view. So we can argue, of course, whether they think the future of Hungary is the same as we think. I don't think they're thinking the same thing, and from that point on, it's possible to argue which is the better idea of the future, but after four years like this, to say that these measures don't show us what direction we want to go in, and I don't rate that, because, after all, why should I be rude, I can only promise you that we have another four years. The electorate has authorized us to discuss these issues for four years, and indeed the legislative proposals that will take us on the road drawn up in the previous four years will be placed on the table of committees. If I may, I would like to say more general things, since it is indeed interesting to talk about whether there will be a VAT reduction or no VAT reduction, this is an interesting thing, I think you have heard many times here from government actors, especially from the Ministry of Economy, that we believe that it is more fair to collect taxes in the form of consumer taxes, let us say in the form of personal income tax. So our aim is to reduce that tax code and to get the resources from the other that the state can otherwise be operated and operated in Hungary, because that is what the voters have empowered us to do. I don't know what ministerial hearing you were at, Congresswoman, I remember meeting with you, meeting with you as President of the Commission, and I think we had quite a detailed, meaningful and in-depth debate at the Commission hearing. I myself gave a 30-minute list of the concrete measures that we are planning, the Prime Minister, when he presented the tasks of the ministers as to what we are going to do. And if we could discuss the package of measures that we have just put in place from 1 January to which we say it shows our population programme, then it is clear from this that we clearly support child rearing and the support of families who, besides raising children, want to provide their families with a work income. It is, I could say, radical measures, but I trust that for you, radical is not a negative indicator, which has been missing in Hungary for the past 20 years. If that tax relief system really starts to work - I think we agree that three or four months are short to see the results of this, it takes at least nine months, and its biological laws are just like that - then we can talk about whether it really made sense, whether we really brought the time of the first-second child's engagement to an earlier stage, and whether we have actually managed to achieve that there is no risk of poverty in Hungary to have children today. We can discuss whether the thousands of cradle seats we have created are enough because we want to avoid having to spend the three years at home with the child in order to reduce income, but also to get the child, the child, and also to go to work part-time. These are all measures that concern the family's focus on this government, and that will continue to be the case in the future. If you allow another area, which is a very important area for me, and that is the appreciation of the state service, and this includes the issue of the pedagogical career, all the measures that concern Hungary's role as a public servant, civil servant, educator, doctor, health worker, to have a predictable career in Hungary today. The wage increase that started significantly last September, again in January, and now in a few months' time, I think it clearly shows the direction of what a teacher career means and how it will apply in schools as a quality education, of course, it can be the next step. And when you talk about the public, I'm careful to say it again, but I'm dealing with a lady, but the public and the reliability in the debate between the representatives of the European Union... - I think you should look at your European Union list, and then I think you have something to confess to, not just us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-18	Dear House, At the end of the speeches before today's agenda, Mr Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz Group, will be: "Some are unable to learn from two defeats. " Here you go.
u2014-06-10-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are also the Bourbons who have not learned from the French Revolution and Napoleon, and we have fellow opposition Members who have not been able to learn from 6 April and 25 May. And, ladies and gentlemen, on 6 April, you were not simply judged by the people in the form of a defeat, you were defeated in the parliamentary elections on 6 April. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes.]] And I have bad news, if you have not noticed, fellow Members, that on 25 May, in the elections to the European Parliament, six weeks after the parliamentary elections, you have suffered a greater rate of defeat than before. Fewer people voted for you and supported the current governing parties in an even greater proportion. There is certainly a reason for this, honourable Members. And one of the reasons is that even after April 6th, people noticed that you didn't learn anything. They say exactly the same things as in the previous four years, they attack the government with exactly the same things as they did in the previous four years, and they demand exactly the same things that people once, and even twice after, have already said with enough determination. Today we have heard a demand for progressive tax in the form of dividend tax in Hungarian businesses, before which we have heard in Parliament the demand for progressive personal income tax from the left. Ladies and gentlemen, You always remember how to tax Hungarian businesses much better than foreigners, and you always remember how to tax Hungarian people and Hungarian families better, but when, let's say, you have to act more decisively against foreign interest groups - let's just recall, when they governed and tried to introduce the bank tax, they put a little experiment on it: what happened to the then prime minister, my honourable fellow Members? He went to Nádor Street, and then, with his tail between his ears and his tail, he walked home, and then that certain banker became such a teeny-weeny, while the tax burden on people grew harshly that year and the following year. At the same time, when you did not attempt to increase the rate of the bank tax, when it turned out that your fault caused the country and public finances to be in great trouble, you invented a tax burden that the Hungarian families, the workers who maintained the families, had to pay taxes even after they had not received it anyway. This was the particular tax system in which even 50 percent of the various social security contributions paid after them were subject to personal income tax, which we had to abolish step by step in 2010,'11 and'12. This is when you face real multinational companies and strong interest representatives, you always, every time, back down. If you want progressive taxation, ladies and gentlemen, here is the advertising tax, you can vote bravely. It involves progressive taxation and, as appropriate, it is also a matter of taking action against very strong interest groups. Don't deny that this has come up during your administration, they thought about it, as they thought about the bank tax, and even more, by the way, we have been using sectoral taxes to widen public burdens. Only at that time, on those occasions, you always backed down, because it was always easier to tax people and tax Hungarian businesses. And when you were in the government, my fellow Members, Austrians built in Hungary and did not build by Hungarians. And you can also ask Gordon Bajnai and János Kóka how he was with the small IT company that was purchased and then filled with government investments. He didn't build anything, he didn't create any value, he didn't do anything new, and then he was sold 15-20 times the price, and we don't even know today that the huge income from it, because he went to offshore, otherwise in this form, who was enriched. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to learn from April 6th and May 25th, because people there, I think, wanted to send a message to you in the first place. But you don't seem to want to hear this message. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-06-10-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and ask if anyone on the government's side wishes to speak on this issue. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I call on Mrs Loránt Hegedűs to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-06-10-21	Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda today, Mr Benedek Sallai, Mr LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Mr Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: János Harghitai, KDNP; Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Erik Bánki, Fidesz Bánki. He applied for the speech following the agenda tomorrow: Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik.
u2014-06-10-22	Thank you very much, notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. I would like to ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás to present the proposal. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-23	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 65. According to its powers under § (1) of the Act, it proposes the following to the Parliament. The Parliament is H/131 on the formation of the Hungarian National Group of Interparlamental Union. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the proposal for a decision, it shall depart from the regulatory provisions of the decision without the submission of a proposal amending the proposal for a decision and of a report by the Commission, the adoption of the proposal for a decision being without debate, on Tuesday 10 June 2014.
u2014-06-10-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules in H/131/3. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the derogation from the house rule by 158 yes, 15 not votes, without abstention. Dear Parliament, MEP L. Simon László initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the T/154 on advertising tax. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Member also initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal today, within three hours of the imposition of the exceptional procedure, and the consolidated debate, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote should take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, namely 100 Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I'm asking you if T/154 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings 130 yes, 45 not votes, without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure are set out in Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, the proposal for amendments - since it is now 14 p.m. 6 p.m., 3 p.m. from here - 17 p.m. to 6 p.m. - will be open for a consolidated debate on the bill, a decision on the summary amendment proposal and a final vote will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz fraction initiated the T/154 on advertising tax, which was discussed in the exceptional procedure. The first item of tomorrow's legislative proposal will be discussed, and if the Legislative Committee submits a summary amendment proposal, the decision on the summary amendment proposal will be taken and the final vote will then take place after the consolidated debate. I ask you, who agrees with this proposal? Anyone who agrees, vote hand lift. [[Vote.]] It's an obvious decision. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that today's personal proposals should be directly addressed by T/146. The Parliament shall decide after the second reading of the bill No. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group also suggested that CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Act 3, Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors and Act XXXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure T/146 on the amendment of Act No. The decision and final vote on the summation of the legislative proposal No 1 shall take place on today's sitting, following the personal proposals. I ask you who agrees with this. Anyone who agrees, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group proposed that, at today's meeting, H/131 on the establishment of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union. T/146 for the decision to be taken. It shall take place after the final vote of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that H/131 for the inaugural meeting of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union. It shall take place after a decision has been taken. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that a series of applications be negotiated on this day after the IPU General Assembly. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that the T/56 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports be published. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 is to take place on this day of the meeting, following the negotiation of the series of requests for inclusion. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. [[14.10]] The Fidesz Group proposed that the T/55 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland should not take place at the meeting on 10 and 11 June 2014. The general debate of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that T/156 amending Act I on Sport on 11 June 2014 to decide on the series of applications. Before the general discussion of the legislative proposal No. I ask my fellow Members who agrees with this. Anyone who agrees, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest time on this day at 6:20 p.m. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] . Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group also proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 12:00 on tomorrow's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, that's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now it's 2:12 p.m., and we're moving on to immediate questions and questions. [[It's a short break.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members that all those who leave the Chamber because of their urgent duties should do so as quickly as possible so that we can continue our work. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members, who will remain in the Chamber to take their seats, because we will continue our work. Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " Why do we not manage to eliminate child hunger in Hungary? " with the title " Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-25	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, School is about to end, and children [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Hundreds of thousands of people are going on vacation. Unfortunately, the very sad situation in our country is that not all children have a happy summer. Today, hundreds of thousands of children in Hungary do not get enough and quality food, today many young children in our country simply starve. It is clear to all of us that a child who does not get adequate food will have a decrease in the rate of development, malnutrition will affect his health and spiritual development, which will affect his school performance and his success in school. That's the condition of the crunchy stomach. Because of the fact that these children are not getting the right food today, they will pay a huge price almost all their lives. And if we continue to think about it, in a world of cool rationality, it is easy to see that human suffering will indeed cause economic damage to our country. Lack of food in adulthood leads to diseases that will cost us all very much to cure, if there is any other public service, as the quality of the services provided by the state in our country is falling enormously. The data shows you well, and as a symptom, they confirm your inertia in this area. Almost half of the families with children have been unable to buy the necessary food for themselves and their loved ones in Hungary in the last year. Today, more than a quarter of the children live below the poverty line in our country. The situation is even worse if we look at the results of the research carried out by the Hungarian Commission of UNICEF, according to which the proportion of those at risk of well-being among Hungarian children increased compared to 2009. That means that [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] At present, every second child is lacking in some way in Hungary. Finally, I ask the Minister, I am bored to ask the question of why and to whom you govern, if you cannot even put food in the mouth of starving children. Thank you.
u2014-06-10-26	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the first speech by the congresswoman in this genre here in Parliament, she does not yet have the routine of 2 minutes to 2 minutes. I think we had to allow the 25 seconds that were important to make it sound whole. I now ask Minister Zoltán Balog to respond to what has been said. [[Intercoms: I agree! Good housekeeping.]]
u2014-06-10-27	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I would have made the same gesture to tell you your question, the last two sentences, if it hadn't been for the time being, but you're already ahead of me in this case. Let me say that the question that you have raised is, indeed, I am very happy to discuss in this tone, not in the way that one of your fellow Members did so at the committee meeting, because it is a major problem. I listened to his sentences, I could have said about two thirds of his speech, because it is true, today there are serious conditions in Hungary in the case of child hunger and family poverty. I trust that we agree that this is not a question that is a product of two years, three years, four or five years, but that we all have such a serious legacy here that it is difficult to change. However, let me say that when you talk about the decline in the quality of public services, I experience the opposite, and the numbers show the same. It is not just that we are spending more money on this issue - even if some of you are making cynical comments about it - than we did in 2009 or 2010, the amount of resources available for this is increasing every year. The fact that there is a children's meal at school is not self-evident in this region. In Hungary, there is not only a child's meal, but there is a child's meal that has extended from the seventh to the eighth grade under our government. So what we can say is that if, in schooltime - summertime, indeed, is a difficult matter - someone sends their child to school fairly, he must receive three meals. And if the municipality, now in the state reserve, the institutions and institutions cooperate well, then they will receive this benefit. The quality of this supply has increased with local products - canned food and otherwise not very healthy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Moving away from food - we are trying to put food cooked from food on their table that helps to feed healthier. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-10-28	Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2014-06-10-29	Thank you, Mr President, for your patience earlier, and I am honored. Look, Minister, I understand everything, and believe me, neither your good intentions nor your efforts are in doubt, but you are beginning your fifth year in this House, not with such authority. Anyone who is given such authority as you have received in Hungary and who is treading on their fifth year should also bring down the stars for the children from the sky. [[14.20]] You're the minister of human resources. He said many times when he first took up the ministry and now at the Commission hearing that man is Hungary's main resource, the faith and strength in him is more important to us than anything else. That is why I do not understand, Minister, and therefore I cannot accept your answer as to why it is not a priority for you today to eliminate children's hunger in Hungary. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you.
u2014-06-10-30	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-31	It was an important exhortation, trying to influence my moral senses in some way. I would say numbers: In 2011 we raised the amount per child from 65 thousand to 68 thousand HUF; in 2013 we increased the specific amount of the child's allowance for free and discounted meals by 50 percent per child. That's more than 50 percent increase, I think it's a pretty important thing. From 2014 the central budget will spend HUF 53 billion on this matter. An operational programme to support people in need, starting from the end of 2014 and in food aid at 0-3 years of age, will address the meals of those who fall out of meals and children who have not yet entered school and kindergarten. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It envisages 17 and 18 billion forints. That is where we try to go to those areas that we cannot institutionally capture, and through the social care system we will reach these children. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " What does the Prime Minister's wording, in particular, mean in terms of the size of the public debt,'according to which we have shown how to open the door to the debt trap. '? ' The title is given below. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Minister without a wallet, to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2014-06-10-33	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2014-06-10-34	Thank you very much. Thus, it is for Congressman Zoltán Balczó to take the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the 2010 government formation, Viktor Orbán said that sovereign debt is the main enemy and announced a fight against it. Since there was no government programme debate now, we do not know whether they want to fight this in the future, so we need to rely on a few other wordings. On 15 March, the Prime Minister said: " We showed you how to open the door to the debt trap. - it's a very mysterious sentence. On May 10, he said a little more specifically: "The road we took was neither easy nor comfortable, we fought through serious difficulties, outnumbered opponents, and here the first is the public debt we have fought through. " Let's look at the facts. In April 2010, the government debt was HUF 19 323 billion, with HUF 5264 billion in April 2014 and 27.3 percent more. The number of spells, the GDP figure, is 84.5 percent. You may be fluctuating, but you have committed 67 percent in the Széll Kálmán plan for 2014. Let's compare it to a family, as does the reduction of the rent: the government debt per family increased by HUF 1 million and HUF 284 thousand. We can say that we feel that this does not have to be repaid, but this is why we have to pay interest of HUF 1200-1300 billion annually. Let's get close to this number: three subway 4s with a trunk and a half million hectares of field. So my question is that you therefore consider that you have solved the issue of public debt, opened the trap, looked out, fell deeper, and said that here it is, that is it, or you have a plan, because it would be good if you told the Hungarian society that. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-36	I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I think we agree that the leadership of socialist governments between 2002 and 2010 has left the region's highest debt-to-GDP ratio and a rising debt path to the new government that will take office in 2010. Maintaining such a level of debt in the direction of 90 per cent of GDP is also a huge burden on the budget. In spite of the recession, Hungary has been able to reduce public debt while increasing the nation's wealth. Over the last four years, debt-to-GDP ratio has fallen from over 85 percent to 79 percent, which is the second most successful debt reduction in EU Member States. Meanwhile, we have managed to manage the country's budget with exemplary discipline, and we have not allowed the deficit to escape. We can also anticipate dynamic growth for the coming years; this is based on a marked increase in investment, the expansion of which is supported by the effective use of EU funds, the low return environment, the growth credit programme and the improvement of business confidence. The Hungarian economy was therefore on a sustainable growth path in 2013. In view of this, the current growth is particularly valuable that it is not based on debt, i.e. the Hungarian economy is growing while the public debt is falling, the budget is in balance and national wealth is growing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-38	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-39	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Well, Michael Varga gave you his pre-election campaign speech, and I know him word for word. Well, look at the current data. Government Debt Management Center: 84.5 percent of the government debt; 84.5 percent because the current figure is HUF 24 587 billion, and if you look at the final figures for 2013, that's it, Minister. Do the math. I would have liked it if you'd answered and stood up for these numbers. My appreciation to the Deputy Prime Minister is that he has committed himself, but he has given me data that does not correspond to reality. Let's at least agree on these facts. One thing I'm interested in is whether you have any plans to get us out of this. I think you know big international companies, Capital Economics, clearly said in 2012 that you can't outgrow it, you have to start negotiations on sovereign debt in order to breathe. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. There is a saying to St. Thomas of Aquinas that " Contra facta non valent argumenta " is, therefore, not to be argued against the facts, and the facts can be read from the numbers of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. Since these figures are true, it follows that if there is a growth-oriented economic policy and the economy is growing, it can grow this very difficult legacy. And I note only in parentheses, Mr President, that if your position were to be followed by the government in a nuance from the point of view of debt management, from the point of view of renegotiation and other things, this would have insurmountable consequences from the exchange rate of the forint to investors. Therefore, the only thing I ask of you with respect is to take the facts seriously and, on the other hand, to take responsibility. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. We believe St. Orbán!]]
u2014-06-10-42	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "The Kehi is in the wrong place. " Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-10-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, One of the most important tasks in the life of every community is the control of public funds. In Hungary, there is a designated organisation, Kehi, the Government Audit Office, which carries out this work, i.e. checks that public funds cannot be spent in a way contrary to the interests of the community. Kehit is controlled by the Prime Minister's Office, and they have tried to protect the interests of the community in recent weeks by holding various raids with civil society organisations, and by interfering with Hungary's most transparent funding party, the May Other with Politics. But I do not want to talk about that, but I would like to ask you a question about how it is possible, Minister, that while there is only unfounded accusations at your disposal and at Kehi's disposal, there is an older story, which is quite specific. So while the bully insults you in a perfectly clear and clear way, in the case of what happened... - in breach of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. [[14.30]] The point is that the organization that has to watch over public spending practically rented an office from an offshore company with public money, thus cutting the Hungarian state and the Hungarian people by virtually hundreds of millions of forints. Because if it's an offshore company, there's no transparent ownership background, so we don't know where these funds ended. To be absolutely specific, it was originally a contract concluded by former MNV leader Miklós Tátrai's mother-in-law, Lajosné Monostori, and expired in December 2012. Kehi practically carried on with this contract, and quite simply quit at the beginning of 2013. So, after knowing exactly how this money landed in offshore locations, he didn't just open the contract there, but let it grow a little longer for this company. What is the explanation for this, and how is this compatible with the current practice that Kehi immediately appeared in different places [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and declared war - completely unfounded - against civil society organisations?
u2014-06-10-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-45	Congresswoman! By stating that it is inappropriate for the body investigating the transparency of the use of public funds to rent real estate from an opaque organisation, I fully agree. I supported, for the first time, as a faction leader, and then as a government official or state leader in the Prime Minister's Office, that all offshore contracts would be terminated by the government. I would like to note that today in Hungary, the real estate in the city, which is close to the parliament - I do not know whether it is deliberately or without intention - is owned by offshore almost without exception, and there is not a single state-owned property. This means that if the government, let's say, wants to rent real estate to accommodate the ministries, it has had to face in the last 12 years the practice that they are either private and transparent - this is a better variation, although this is not ideal or they are inaccessible privately owned by offshore companies. The government is of the opinion that this should be cleaned, and the government building can only rent property from the Hungarian National Asset Manager under transparent conditions in the next period, or receive free use from the Hungarian National Asset Manager. That's what we're trying to do. The current reorganisations also serve the purpose - which is happening in the government's house - of housing so that each government building can be owned by the state as far as possible. It was not Fidesz that privatized these properties between'98 and 2002, but that the real estate problems in downtown occurred after'98'and after 2002. As regards the investigation that was initiated by the Norwegian fund, the Office for Government Control, at the direction of the Prime Minister, for a fund that uses HUF 40 billion, I would like to emphasise once again what I replied to his speech before the agenda: the decision that the money in the Norwegian fund is public money or private money must be made. If it is public money, then you, who have consistently been on the public side for the past four years, have demanded the public's publicity, then you must now demand the public's publicity. It is not possible that organisations close to you will not be subject to public disclosure rules. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I'm gonna do it for someone else. Please, Congresswoman, be persistent and consistent in this, too. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-46	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, please.
u2014-06-10-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, my perseverance and consistency will not be a mistake, but two questions remain. [[János Lázár: I look forward to it!]] One is why he didn't answer the question. They had time and opportunity to terminate the contract. This is precisely stated in point 49 of the contract. You could've done that offshore background the moment you found out. You didn't do that. This is definitely your fault. You are responsible for allowing these public funds to land in an uncontrolled business. You are responsible for the disappearance of these public funds. And the other is that it's interesting that you're fighting against civilians and you're fighting so hard for transparency in public money, but for example, there's the COF, which is filled with hundreds of millions of different metaphors. They conduct discrediting campaigns against their various political opponents. Why don't you investigate there? The third thing I would like to draw your attention to is that today Fidesz voted off the LMP bill, which would say that it cannot even conclude contracts with organisations with offshore backgrounds. That would basically address this problem at its core, and then... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We should not argue about such matters, and public money could flow in this country on its own. Why did you vote for that?
u2014-06-10-48	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder was given to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-49	It is part of the correct information, my dear Member, that we have ordered an investigation of all the fund managers of the Norwegian fund, including the state fund managers. First he went to the Kehi, then he went to the civil society that handled the basics. We would like to check every single Norwegian money that it has come to, for the simple reason that it is controversial - and you, who struggles for the transparency of public funds, probably agree with me - that there is a civilian money dealer who distributes Norwegian money. 13 applicants received 30% of the funds, another 150 received two thirds, and there are 1,000 rejected applications in the civil world. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] I think you'd have to fight for that 1000 candidates without putting your card on the table or going up against anyone. I believe that you should represent and request that all documents and data be made public in order to ensure the cleanliness of public funds. This applies to all CÖF applications and all applications. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to say one more sentence: unfortunately, only in the 2011 basic legislative debate did the entire offshore exemption emerge, and since 1 January 2012, the government has had the opportunity to ban all offshore companies from the aid scheme. I'm the leader of this administration myself. In the coming years, offhsore will not receive EU money as a result. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Change the concept! Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-50	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " African poverty in the middle of Europe? " with the title " I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs, please.
u2014-06-10-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I hope that 10 million Hungarians will benefit from their blessed activities. [[Foreman Novak: Let's hope it's more.]] I really do congratulate you. [[John Lazarus: Thirteen! Intercoms.]] Mr. Secretary. The Hungarian government is authorised to manage 10 million people. [[Intercoms in the benches of the ruling parties. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Friends! I would like to advance two things. One is that I would like to ask Minister: what do you want to do to reduce poverty and inequality? I am putting this question forward because the ministerial hearing is not suitable for the Member to even reply in return. Last week, Habitat Hungary published a survey of 170 thousand children living in housing poverty where there is no toilet in the apartment; nearly 200,000 children with no electricity; 620 thousand children with moldy, musty or soaked housing; 900 thousand flats with wood and coal, and please, more than 500 thousand implementations have been carried out over the past year due to public utility and credit debts. This has increased by 10 percent per year over the past four and a half years. Those are the facts. These are the statistics. We know, Minister, that poverty cannot be reduced by either party book or incantation. Poverty cannot be reduced by desire. A government and a minister will be given the authority for four years to support these people with each action. Thank you so much for the audition.
u2014-06-10-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I appreciate that, thank you for your good wishes. With the utmost respect, let me say that I feel a little bit about time travel: we were not empowered by 10 million people to govern, nor by you, but the entire Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin had the opportunity to choose at this parliamentary election - first in Hungarian history - and that is a fact that I think it is worth considering, because I think that everything - also social affairs - is a policy measure that your question concerned - must be made in the Carpathian Basin dimension. I think one of the better party members asked me, in the Committee on National Inclusion, what we do about early development in Hungarian families outside the borders, and this is a perfectly legitimate question. They are not in the 10 million who live within the country, but they are part of the nation, and we have to take responsibility for them. [[14.40]] Let me say that the questions raised by you, as has been done before, are indeed legitimate questions, but I would be careful with the surveys. I followed up on this survey just after our debate in the Commission. Do you know how many children are starved? They call 200 families, ask if they gave the kid breakfast before he went to school. If they say they don't, then they write that the child is starving, while they didn't give it because the child is waiting for breakfast at school - this is the case in Hungary today at all schools - and they are expecting lunches and lunches. I think these facts are worth taking into account. What you're talking about, we're transforming the relief system, moving towards benefits in kind, so that even in families where responsibility is not as great as it should be, children can get access to the food, the food they have the right to. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-54	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-55	Thank you very much. Look, Minister, I never claimed that poverty had developed last week. It was poverty ten years ago, before the change of regime, I know exactly. A distinction should be made as to whether a government decision or a government will was a measure that alleviated poverty or caused poverty. This weekend I listened to you give an interview to Lánchíd Rádió, and he said that they would create a State Secretary for the middle class, and also a State Secretary for the slippers. Well, that's kind of weird. I don't know what the function of this latter will be, what it will be, perhaps it will be the segregation secretary of state, but that will serve exclusion is almost certain. It fits into about the same concept as the program in Ocsai, which - everyone can see - has not led to anything, because putting people with the same problems in one place does not solve their problems. I do not wish Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] A social policy quoting the Horthy system when the guilty poor are excluded from society. Look, I can't agree with that. I'm not saying that this is not a legitimate argument that you represent, but I'm sure I can't accept that. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-56	Thank you very much. With all due respect, my fellow Members, who already have a routine, and have already done a few years here in the walls of this House, I would ask you to try to keep up with the timeframes. Thank you very much. For a moment, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-57	It's also part of the routine that you're overstepping the time frame with just enough to keep the word out of it, so that's part of it. Let me just say that we didn't create the Secretary of State for the middle class. We said that some people should be defined by the state as requiring extra care, so there are those who need the extra support of the state today because they themselves cannot provide the conditions of their lives. When you say that this is a Secretariat of the State for segregation, this is particularly bad for me, because it was our government that, for the first time in 2010, created a State Secretary in the case of Roma which, by the way, had the European Roma Framework Strategy adopted. This Secretary of State is the base of which we deal with individuals, people, communities, families who are still in serious need today. And there is another problem - for which there is another State Secretary - and that is that in Hungary childbearing still poses a risk of poverty [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Although we have made a very significant step forward in this matter, their confirmation is particularly important for us, so we will pay particular attention to this. Instead of a secretary of state, there are two; I don't know why you don't like it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: " Is the two weeks ticking again? " with the title " I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The third Orbán government was formed, in which you once again became the head of the internal affairs portfolio. Four years ago, his classic promise of order in the country was made. Compared to this, we are slowly crying back to the situation in 2010, as official statistics, as well as people's sense of security, have continued to deteriorate over the past four years. Meanwhile, the government considers it a result that hundreds of new trucks have been operated and that they are practically using the police as a collector. You can only get to a police station where the money is worth it, and premeditated, quota-type fines can be imposed on those who commit minor irregularities. In particular, people find the statement by the Minister of the Interior that the deterioration of criminal statistics only means that people turn to the police with greater confidence and press charges more bravely. So you think the more known crimes in this country, the more people trust the police. But you have done everything you can to make the crime statistics as efficient as possible. The crime threshold has been increased from HUF 20,000 to HUF 50,000, so most of the thefts will only be included in the statistics as an infringement. The threshold of 50,000 forints is incredibly high. Today's Hungarian reality is that most of our countrymen, calculated on a used value, have little property other than their vehicle, whose value exceeds 50,000 forints. In addition, it is a daily exercise that the police knowingly determine the value of stolen property under HUF 50,000 in order not to be treated as a crime. Dear Minister, People want real public security, and they don't want the police that do statistical fraud and public money collection. I ask, therefore, when will they finally begin to create public safety and when will they honestly face the most pressing problem in Hungarian society. What are the plans of the Home Office for the next four years? I look forward to these, together with the citizens, to the substantive reply of the Minister for the Interior. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think that it is not possible to draw up a full ministerial programme in two minutes; although I am quite brief, I do not know. However, it is clear that I have presented this programme to the committees, the parts of this programme, which, I believe, have sufficiently foreseen the enormous development on the basis of which the Ministry of the Interior is going and what further developments it is heading towards. The question is not whether the number of traffic cameras is increasing or not. The question is, how many people die on our roads. Unfortunately, on our roads, they die above the average of the European Union, many more. This is what we want to reduce, and there is nothing the police have to do with the acquisition of money, the collection of money, because these money does not come to the police, but to the Treasury, with which some of our citizens, some type of driver who violates the rules - and violates the rule that you have made here in Parliament - we are trying in some way to lead him on the right path. I would like to say that public security has improved significantly from both the statistical side and the subjective security side. If we just consider that 358,000 crimes occurred in 2013 compared to 450 thousand crimes in the previous year, this is also a huge, significant improvement. Considering that we're closer to citizens and understanding police activity, it increases a subjective sense of security. I should also add that in 2013 there were two murders that the police had not discovered, so they were working more efficiently than ever before. So I think there's order, there's work in the bv, there's work everywhere. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-62	Thank you very much, Minister. We now have a one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-63	Minister, I'm sorry to hear that from you. Looks like we're reading different statistics. I will also prepare for the latest data, they will now be available, and we will obviously still be debating this here, but in fact there is an increase in the number of crimes, there are other trends in certain items, but this is only the smaller number. We should talk about how many people die beating them to death in their homes, Minister. More and more. And the criminals are acting in an increasingly brutal way. Unfortunately, the penalties are not sufficiently dissuasive, as these processes continue. Unfortunately, we couldn't hear from Prime Minister about the government programme, since it wasn't submitted, so it couldn't even be discussed there. The Commission's hearings could be regarded as inadequate for detailed discussion, given that they were carried out in a timely and rapid response to questions and questions. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go. [[14.50]]
u2014-06-10-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What I want to say is that the feeling that public safety is better or worse can be measured. Therefore, Tárki, the Institute for Social Research, measured this and said in October 2013 that in terms of institutional trust, the police are second in the country. It was only the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that preceded it. I think that's a very good point. The second thing is that the Századvég Foundation stated that in 2013, 34 percent of the population valued the work of the police as good or excellent. Such performance was not achieved in 2010 and'11. When we took over the government in'10, that was 11 percent. So more than 20 percent of our citizens consider that the police work well or well. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-66	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative of the LMP, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, wants to ask the Minister for Agriculture an immediate question: "The chances of organic farming in the shadow of Kishantos. " Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very, very difficult to talk about a subject without getting stuck with another, and the issue of organic farming is just such a topic. It is not Kishantos that we need to talk about, because it is only a symbol of how the chances of organic farming are currently developing in Hungary. The document on the development of organic farming, adopted by the Ministry of Rural Development as a national action plan between 2014 and 2020, reveals a great deal of opportunities to address all the problems that have arisen today in part. The issue of school food, how children get basic food, crime, poverty has been raised. In all of this, I feel that we are dealing with the effects by not essentially focusing on why there are not enough jobs, why people do not have enough work and why there is not enough employment in rural areas for agriculture that has been able to create enough jobs for the rural population for centuries. Ecological farming has very, very many employers' potential due to its very high demands for living work, and accordingly the Hungarian government intends to increase the share of areas that have benefited from organic farming from 130 thousand hectares to 300 thousand hectares by 2020. I think that many parts of the action plan can be agreed, but this amount is not sufficiently ambitious, it could be achieved much faster. I would like to know, Minister, whether there is a strategy that creates the conditions for implementing the action plan with the aim of creating jobs and the potential to create jobs, and whether the Minister or his wallet can help to create them as soon as possible.
u2014-06-10-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased that you have raised the issue of organic farming, organic food, this important area, and I am also pleased that you can get it away from this company, because it is a much more important, much larger, breathtaking task. Dear Parliament, It is very important that we have a strategy for organic production, a work plan that allows us to increase the proportion, quantity and quality of organic food. This was done in consultation with the farmers, family farms, organic food distributors and processors concerned. This consultation took a long time because it required the agreement of the players in the sector. There has been a regulation in this regard, as it is very important that if a customer buys organic food, it should really be if we look at the product behind the mark, it must be in line with expectations, and we have certification organisations that actually control or at least control producers to get food from a controlled organic farm on the tables. It is very important that the interim steps are also developed and correct. The certification system should keep production under control, the host markets, which the government has put in several regulations, should be constantly supported by advertising tools, promotion of products and education for conscious consumption. After all, we know that it is the conscious customer, the conscious consumer, who searches for the organic product, who also searches for Hungarian foods. I would be happy to inform you that 50 percent of Hungarian consumers and customers buy Hungarian food even if it is more expensive, and this also applies to organic products, which are often higher prices. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-70	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sallai R. Benedict. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize, Minister, if I've misunderstood. I did not just want to talk about opportunities for organic food to enter the market, but also about the chances of rural economies with higher employment potential, the sectors that can create more jobs. What I would like to hear from the Minister, if possible, is how applicants who may wish to represent sectors with higher employment potential will take priority in the next round of applications. In response to all that has just been said, it would have been possible in part in the past four years, but I accept that this action plan has just been adopted by the government, and I accept that it will be implemented in the next four years. However, it would be very good that the next 40,000 hectares, which can be heard of potential applications, might be put out in such a way that, unlike previous practice, sectors with higher employment potential and sectors with higher value levels of organic production could be given priority. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-73	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, we are all aware of the genre limitations of how far a subject can be analyzed in such a time frame. One thing is certain: in agricultural subsidies, in various applications, bio-production workers get extra points, those who undertake them. With the Mintamenza programme and several other local sales, short sales chain programmes, special attention is also paid to organic farming with home farming and kitchen garden programmes supporting family farms. We also support livestock farming in the field of land applications, and in a large part livestock production also takes place in a bio-economic context, and here it is enough to think about national park pastures. So there's an opportunity for that. Animal husbandry ensures the highest employment and can therefore be achieved by creating more jobs in rural areas, even if a person is working within the framework of organic farming, which, I mentioned, can obviously be documented through a certification procedure, and even if he chooses another form of farming. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-74	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question entitled "Degression aggression. " Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Today, the countryside is characterised by rising unemployment, increasing hopelessness and hopelessness, so anyone who can leave the country today and does not stop at the cities usually leaves the country. While there used to be a well-organized structure that could provide income for people living in villages, the people living in villages, on the foundations of agriculture, today a large part of the land is concentrated in large estates, often called family, where they often deal with industrial crops, thousands of hectares can be cultivated with up to three people, they are practically able to do their work in a very profitable way, while in villages other people simply have nothing to live on. Obviously this isn't right, there's something to be done. The European Union has offered two opportunities to at least differentiate income support in some way and not to give income support to those who are already earning a high income. It therefore offered an opportunity to transfer it from the larger ones to the smaller farmers. For example, France has chosen this, where the area payment is doubled to 52 hectares, so that it becomes a real income supplement. Hungary did not choose this, but you chose to simply take the aid away from farmers over an estate limit or over a premium size, but it happens to be over 1200 and 1800 hectares. The problem with this is that the livestock farms are also affected by the fact that today they employ 110 thousand people declared legally, so we believe that there is only one way to imagine this, if employment costs can be deducted from this withdrawal, so that these jobs are not put at risk. [[15.00]] But it would also be at least as important to encourage those who do not employ us today, so incentives should also be given to more people in the field of crop production alone, as they have knowledge. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They have the capital power to create more jobs. Therefore, I respectfully ask how these 110-120 thousand people want to keep their jobs and how they intend to expand them. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-76	Thank you very much. The answer to this question will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union provides funds to Hungary from two sides: resources for territorial development, catching up and agricultural resources. The agricultural resources can be divided into two parts, the so-called area payments, which the Member spoke about, according to the government's decision, between 2014 and'20 the volume per hectare will be 70 thousand forints, so it will not decrease. The other is the various funds for rural development, which means 1,000 billion. The real big question, in agreement with many moments of your assessment, is whether capital concentration in the countryside, resource concentration, support concentration are related to the poverty of villages, depopulation, emigration, the fact that in many cases these settlements are not a means of living for young people. In our opinion, yes. We believe that the resources available by the state must be distributed more fairly in the lives of rural settlements. Therefore, the Hungarian government is expected to live and decide on this in June, with the opportunity offered by the European Union to limit land-based aid over the amount of 150,000 euros, which is about 1037 hectares, in the case of holdings over a thousand hectares. The limited amount is transferred to the Rural Development Fund, where it is more fair for small and medium-sized people, not excluding larger farms with high employment. What you have raised at the committee meeting, and we agreed that this is a possible direction to deal with the situation, of course, involves risks and requires careful consideration and serious responsibility. Because there are 110,000 people who are now employed in a large estate system. In Hungary, the land targeted by possible degression, i.e. by reducing land-based support, is about 1 million 164 thousand hectares. This is a serious issue, which is expected to be decided by the government on 25 June, considering your opinion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-78	It's for a moment, Congressman. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-79	Thank you very much, Minister, for at least maintaining the possibility of weighing, because we cannot support any solution that is about losing existing jobs in the countryside. It's bad enough as it is. Once again, I agree with the need to change the situation and not to give support where there is no need for income support, but it cannot be done in a way that would destroy existing jobs. We need to figure out what new jobs can be created. You know, Minister, if there were any changes that would threaten existing jobs, I'm afraid there's something else going on, and you had a reference to it at this particular Commission hearing where you were referring to Teleki, who owns the land, who owns the country. At a time like this, you have a feeling that this whole transformation isn't about you proving once in the framework of the trade-options that you understand exactly what the condition is that whoever owns the land owns the country belongs to you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And isn't this about a redeployment?
u2014-06-10-80	Thank you very much. For a moment, Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-81	Your Honour, my fellow Member. You're a respected member of this Parliament, and I don't think you're worthy of the personalism you've just allowed yourself with me, and I don't think it's right, but it's in your judgment. What I would like to say to you is that if you ask my personal beliefs, I really believe that this country's poverty, the country's lack of prospects for the countryside, has been responsible for at least 150 to 200 years of great estate. And if it's up to me, I'll do my best to ensure that, taking into account the aspect of maintaining jobs, the proportion of large estates from the current 50 percent is not more than 20 percent; 80 percent is a small and medium-sized economy and 20 percent are large estates. This was one of the basic ideas of that republic in 1945, and that is why the land reform was carried out at that time, which was not successful. That is why many have tried changes over the past 140 years. We will try to distribute the funds more fairly. We want property policy, tax policy and support policy to be synchronised in order to strengthen rural sustainability, not only to be born, but also to live there. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-82	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Is there an export problem, exported crime? " The title is given below. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county is in a special position even for Eastern Hungary, whether from the point of view of unemployment, crime or emigration. There is no exception to this: the county seat, Miskolc, where all the problems of the county are pictured. You haven't sorted out your promise in two weeks or four years. You have renounced the Eastern region, leaving the people who live there to themselves in hopelessness, poverty and putting them at risk of crime. Miskolc's Fidesz city leadership has come up with another shocking proposal for a solution: the most well-equipped sections of society, a large part of whom live on crime, want to leave the town of Miskolc with a noble simplicity. They wish to do so by giving every family 2 million forints of public money to leave the municipal property and the city of Miskolc. There are a number of questions here, Mr. Home Secretary. Do we export crime to the countryside? How moral is it to give millions to criminals? Where do you think these families will settle down? Do you think this is a solution to the problem? Dear Minister of the Interior, This decision will have unforeseen consequences in view of the future of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. It's nothing but a beauty patch sweeping the problem under the rug. What do you think the Ozdians, Ormosbányaans, and Sendrőians, who will have to deal with the fact that these families will settle in their home, destroying local communities? These settlements can buy real estate for that kind of money. Do you think rural people deserve this? Do you think this is a fair solution? I look forward to Mr. Minister of the Interior's reassuring response, which will reassure all people in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County on this issue. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm reading something completely different from the municipal council resolution that was born in Miskolc than you are. There is not a word here about giving money to criminals, and I think that those who receive money may not be criminals, and I am sure that they are not, because crime or the term criminal can only be said to anyone on the basis of the final judgment of the court. The other thing is that this is the decision of the city of Miskolc, the general assembly of the municipality has taken this decision by 15 votes and 4 votes against. The 4 non-votes were made by representatives of the Democratic Coalition and Jobbik. In view of all this, I think that the Ministry of Interior has little opportunity here, because the Fundamental Law puts the possibility in the hands of the municipalities of what kind of general meeting resolution they take, as long as it is not against the law or the law. This decision is neither. So it becomes a final decision, it's okay, and it's okay. There is no question of exporting any crime, and I think that people who live in a lot of concrete at the moment are given the opportunity to have their own garden house, and in these areas they are properly farming themselves and their families. In addition, we can provide a great deal of help with the area of public employment, since public employment works well in smaller settlements, in disadvantaged settlements, and do not forget that the Ministry of Interior employed 231 thousand people at the same time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-86	Thank you very much, Minister. For a moment, Congressman Zsolt Egyed will have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister of the Interior, The first part of his speech is pushing responsibility, but we've gotten used to it in the last four years. In response to the second part, I would like to say that these people do not live in tons of concrete, but these people live predominantly in municipal homes and municipal family homes, which are the property of the city of Miskolc, and which these people have destroyed over the years at such a level that the properties are almost uninhabitable. [[15.10]] So what's happening here is that we've lived up to what we have, we're getting a little money and we're moving on, and we're going to live up to it somewhere else. A lot of mayors came to me and asked me for help in the country, where there is a chance that these people will move there to prevent it by protests or in any way, because their community does not need these people, who, once again, Mr. Minister of the Interior, live predominantly from crime, to move to the settlement. And with regard to crime, you have to see how many criminal records live on that street: 90% of the rate. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-88	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-89	I think if we organize protests, those protests won't get us anywhere. These people need to be given an opportunity. There must be an opportunity to make a living every day. Therefore, I suggest that we try to give these people jobs, and if they can make a living from work, then I think that a significant part of them may not even be guilty. The other question is how we can help. I stress it, with public employment. Public employment is a means and opportunity to provide these people with everyday livelihoods. So it's clear that this was the decision of the General Assembly of Miskolc, it's not against the law, it's still valid. With public employment and organization, the Ministry of the Interior can help these people's everyday lives. Thank you, and please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-90	Thank you very much, Minister. It's 3:12 p.m., the immediate questions are over an hour ago. We'll move on to the questions. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Did the postman and soldier bring a letter? " The title is given below. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. There are continuous downsizings, continuous downsizings in the country. Whether we are talking about state-owned companies or whether we are talking about companies outside the state reserve, that's what people are facing. In the case of state-owned companies, let's look at the post office, please. As regards the post office, if my memories do not deceive me, on 5 May there was a negotiation between employers and employees' organisations of interest. Well, they couldn't agree here, and I can tell you with a calm spirit, regardless of whether or not, there were timely and employment-time cuts within the mail, and there were also cuts in numbers. In the first quarter, 446 people were dismissed and "by mutual agreement. " This is not a group reduction, as should be the case at this time, as it could be done within the framework of a more favourable framework condition. It doesn't make sense why. Why doesn't the State at least take care of those who, if necessary, want to divorce for any coercion? Although I do not understand the coercion, the post-tax profit for 2013 was 1.3 billion - again, in my mind - in the case of postage. So this kind of coercion doesn't exist. Why is this really the size of the layoff? Why under such conditions and not in group frames? And the soldiers with whom the Ministry of Defense has signed a contract, according to my knowledge, will they be the ones to fill this void? What employment framework numbers, in what jobs? In fact, that is what I would like to ask, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that such dismissals should not be made. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-93	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can calm you down because they won't send the mailmen, especially if the job is terminated to fill this staff with decommissioned soldiers. One thing is certain that if in today's world the post office is looking for a number of employees, there are databases that you can use, and in this database there are decommissioned soldiers who have signed up and asked to be included in this database if possible. So, if this is the case, then this is the way the post looks for these workers, those who are looking for jobs. When it comes to a decommissioned soldier, I think that this is how the decommissioned soldier gets into the system, but they don't send a postman to make room for a decommissioned soldier. It is also very important to clarify that there is an end to jobs that belong to management jobs, so that the job of effective workers is not terminated, but that the job of those who work in management positions is specifically removed, because it is very important to know and to feel that the reason for the reduction is due to necessity, since the necessity of postal services as a universal service is important, but, as appropriate, to the 21st century. In the 18th century, direct mail delivery and the resulting postal services were reduced. It is also very important to highlight and to know that, in itself, the removal of a person's employment by mutual agreement is not only more detrimental to him, but I think it is preferable, since it is more beneficial for him to be on the labour market. And one more thing is very important: if it goes away by common accord - I've done many of these things - I think it's not worse to give it what comes with common accord. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-94	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Egyed, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "If you have settled, how did Miskolc become a high - risk settlement? " The title is given below. It is for Congressman Zsolt Egyed. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister of the Interior, In two weeks there will be order, the Minister of Interior promised, and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this, adding that Hungary will not be Latin America, where security is the privilege of the rich. Then, before the spring parliamentary elections, the Minister of Interior, evaluating the government's previous four-year term, said: "Policy and public security are solid throughout the country, which is supported not only by the establishment of the Ministry of Interior, but also by public opinion polls. " In contrast to the above propaganda reports, the population knows, let alone that there is no order, but there has never been such a mess in Hungary. You don't have to do more police work if you don't do crime prevention and law enforcement, you're just collecting money. It should be drastic and hard-core, but the most important step would be a new police law that could give the police more authority. By increasing the limit of the infringement procedures, the government only gave horses to unclaimed criminals who imagined their lives outside education, work and law. Therefore, criminals are increasingly brazen, and more and more violence against police officers, as has been the case in Szendrő's town. Minor Patriam Miskolc, where, contrary to the government's propaganda report, the number of crimes increased by 40 percent in 2012, and in 2013 we reached the point that the police declared the city a high-risk settlement, given that criminal infection is far above the county average, including the city of Ozd. You can see where the government's up to now is leading. Dear Minister of the Interior, When do you want a real change? What powerful solutions do they have for this? Do you have any idea how this problem will be solved? The people of Borsod County and Miskolc await your powerful and comprehensive response. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I believe that the actual change is already in the wake of 2010. I think that you can see that, even if not as prominently as others, but the statement of the various public opinion researchers and scientific organisations that have been read above clearly says that the population perceives this. The problem is that the issue you set up is based on error, even because it is obvious that Miskolc has not been declared a high-risk area by the police. [[15.20]] Part of Miskolc, Hollow Valley, Hollow Mine, yes, so it's a tight section. However, the reason for this is that there we have created a highly controlled area, and we do not want our investment to be wasted. Here, the police also set up a container office in order to increase security. So we have made tremendous efforts, and we do not want to lose the result of this effort. We're making progress. We're on the road set in 2010, through law and professionalism. There are results. I have already told you that out of 451 thousand crimes, we reduced the number of crimes to 358 thousand by 2013, and in Miskolc, this year, in 2014, the number of crimes decreased by 9 percent in the first five months, while the number of crimes committed in the public area was reduced by 16 percent with their colleagues in Miskolc. I think there's order and order. At the end of the next four years, I will report that there will be outstanding public order and security in Miskolc. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-98	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Agriculture: " When do local land committees stand up and what composition? ' The title is given below. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-99	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, In the spirit of the written question, I would like to know that, on the basis of the relevant sections of the Land Traffic Act, since 1 May, land committees that have control over land traffic should be in place. Basically, I have no intention of convincing the Fidesz Government that it would be better to implement the LMP programme in the next four years either, and I would therefore consistently prefer that substantial progress be made in the implementation of the various strategic plans, action plans and legislation that it has undertaken itself. We have serious concerns about the fact that, at the moment, earth traffic is still not in line with the objective set out in the preamble to the Land Traffic Act, and in many cases, land traffic is still at very serious risk to this day by further concentration of land. It would be very, very necessary that the land committees that are able at least to bring oversight and local wisdom into these decisions be properly set up and, in the context of the pre-emptive right, apply the consistent principles that the legislator has laid down by strengthening medium-sized owners by using land traffic. So my respectful question would be, to the best of the Minister's knowledge, whether there is a chance that, by lifting the transitional measure, the land committees that need to be drafted by the legislation will be born; and, if they are born, there is a chance that they will be created in a local, diverse way that as many sectors and territories as possible will be represented in the committee. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for this question, and I would like to reassure you that, contrary to the LMP's ideas, which received 5 percent, Fidesz-KDNP's two-thirds support will allow this area to be provided with the necessary legislative and regulatory background. What are we talking about here? The new land law defines the task of giving the land committees the right to decide on land sales and have veto rights. If the land committees do not stand up, there may be several reasons for this, then the agricultural chamber, the National Chamber of Agriculture, shall act as a regional body and shall act as the territorial body of the land. So there is no legal vacuum, there is no unregulatedness, there is no decision where there is no one who can take a stand. This system is still in operation. I would also like to reassure everyone that just because there is a local farm committee missing here, there is nothing to do, in any other respect, with land sales, since there is an official authorisation procedure, it works, and the National Land Fund has unlimited pre-emption rights. So it's not like there's some kind of concentration of property here. In the first place, we should talk about ownership concentration in this case, and there we have the maximum ownership of 300 hectares per person. Land offices can check this out. The control computer system is also operational and operational. The regulation will take place during the summer, and then we will be able to resolve all the issues permanently. This will be a government decree. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-102	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "Protecting the reduction of the rent against Brussels. " Szilárd Németh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think it was a great decision when, a year and a half ago, the government took the road to a policy of reducing costs. Here we have also heard from our opposition fellow Members, almost as a compliment, that the government's flagship is a policy of reducing costs. He could do this for the reason that we can supply energy to families in Hungary within the framework of universal service. The universal service means that the State can apply an official price in this case, and the Government and Parliament have taken decisions to set these prices at a low level. Last year there was a more than 20 percent drop in this market, and this year, so we can set this with this instrument in the future. From 1 April this year, the price of gas has decreased by 6.5 percent, and from 1 September, electricity and from 1 October, and for the heating season, the price of district heating will be reduced, just because we have this device in our hands. In fact, we can use this tool not only in Hungary in the European Union, but also in 16 other countries, 17 in total, are using official prices. This is why in Europe this policy of reducing the costs has found followers, and in several countries it has already been decided to reduce the costs, and I would like to apply it. However, not everywhere can you find followers, Brussels bureaucrats with representatives of the fake left here beat and beat the policy of reducing costs wherever they can. On 25 May, we sent people from the national list to Brussels who in the European Parliament can represent the energy policy that serves our national interests. I am asking you, Minister, as the Minister for the Reduction of Costs, by which means the Hungarian Government protects the results of the reduction of debts from the bureaucrats in Brussels. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Miklós Seszták. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-105	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can reassure you that the government is committed to implementing the reduction programme. The aim of this programme will continue to be to implement a series of multi-stage measures to reduce public utility burdens covering the entire population of Hungary. To this end, we have drawn up and adopted the legislation establishing and regulating the reduction of tariffs. The aim of the legislation implemented so far is primarily to reduce the burden on the general public and also to reduce the profit orientation of public service organisations. Thanks to the reduction in the costs, families have been strengthened, as you have said that there are already utility services where the reduction has reached more than 25 per cent. From this we can see that we have achieved the strengthening of families because they have more money in their pockets. For the first time in a long time, household spending on housing and household energy has been reduced. In response to the criticisms of the regulatory regulation of energy prices in Hungary, I would like to say and make it clear to everyone: our country is fundamentally in favour of a single European electricity and gas market, which the EU has preferred, but we have also indicated that we do not see a chance of doing so in the foreseeable future. It is still not expected that in the near future the burden on citizens will be reduced by competition on the market, and it is therefore necessary to continue the journey so far and we do not believe that the introduction of regulated prices is possible at this stage. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.30]]
u2014-06-10-106	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: " Will there be money for class trips? " with the title " The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent and responsible for the subject. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes, please.
u2014-06-10-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Over the past four years, the Ministry of Rural Development and Zoltán Illés have caused problems in the domestic waste management system that will be very difficult for you to correct. Due to the measures taken by the previous Orbán government, many public service providers are at the end of the period of termination, and the newly created local government-owned companies are unable to carry out their tasks because they are either incompetent or unable to manage the deposit contributions and other public spaces. Due to the combined impact of new taxes and the reduction of costs, public service providers have already accumulated losses of HUF 18.5 billion. In addition, legislation in the past four years also affects those who are ultimately vulnerable to everything. For example, schoolchildren. From 1 January next year, the new Waste Management Act will make it impossible for school paper collection operations with many decades of tradition in Hungary. Dear Minister, Abolishing the collection of school paper, run in many cases by small domestic entrepreneurs, is more than a sin. On the one hand, many small businesses are being destroyed, and on the other hand, schools are losing income on study trips and class trips in most cases. School children should not be victims of improving waste collection statistics. Which is why I'm asking you if there's gonna be any money for class trips. What are they planning to do, and when, so that the collection of school paper, which has many decades of tradition, can last? I trust that he does not suggest, as his predecessor led by Zoltán Elijah, that schools should collect batteries or rags instead of paper, since they are not subject to the law amendment. I would just like to indicate that there is no revenue from these collections, but the used element, for example, is hazardous waste, the accumulation of which in the school area is unlikely to be lucky. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-10-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-109	Thank you for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Dear House, I am very pleased to be able to respond, and thus help her to be informed, because I see that she is so incredibly underinformed that she has to value every two minutes. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Answer me briefly.]] Perhaps the legal environment and solutions used by the government over the past four years would have been better taken into account. One of the things that must be stated is that the Hungarian waste management system is functioning, an important part of environmental protection. And obviously, when we rebuild this system under a new waste management law, and we eliminate privatisations and outsourcings carried out by your former government, it doesn't go smoothly. Dear Parliament, We are well aware that in these basic areas, where people are exposed to various companies, privatisations and sales have taken place, the product fee has been fully outsourced and is being rebuilt. As regards the collection of waste, by the way, small businesses, who are authorised to organise waste collection, are not prohibited; there is a collection of used batteries in schools and canisters. Maybe if you're in a place like this, you'll find a little green box. These are not unknown things, and children are also involved. Whether or not the institution organises waste collection now is already regulated in the current framework by a 2002 Waste Management Act. Therefore, waste collection may be carried out by an organisation entitled to do so. The way in which this can be integrated into the operating order of the institutions, the curriculum, can be debated, but the rule of exclusion is not new, it has only been confirmed by the new Waste Management Act. We are ready to consult with the EMMI, all the actors, and we will help as many children as possible to acquire environmental awareness, protect the environment, such as the TeSzedd movement, in which 160,000 people participated and half of whom were children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-110	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Sebestyén Csító, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "We have won, we have won very much, and we have won the best. " I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter, please.
u2014-06-10-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Using the sentence in the title, which is Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's sentence after the election, translated into the language of social workers, I could say that using this sentence, " we earn little, very little, and even we earn the least. " Based on the picture of social workers, workers in this profession are bringing home only two thirds of the public sector's already low average wage. The lack of physical resources, burnout, graying, apathy, overload, and lack of appreciation are typical. As a result, many people in the profession, even graduates, are fleeing abroad. Referring to the ministerial hearing: emigrating and not working as a guest worker, and not even building their professional skills, because working as a charger in a store or in a hotel as a dishwasher, or doing nursing work with a disabled or elderly person, a person with a social degree does not really develop in his own profession. This situation is untenable because the freezing of the civil servants' salary bill, the withdrawal of the 13th month's money, the taking of a month's salary for further training and the introduction of a single-key tax have resulted in a huge loss of real earnings for social workers who are already low-income in the last five years, while their daily duties have increased significantly. Meanwhile, we find that Zsuzsa Hegedűs, a Prime Minister's advisor who is famous for his monthly salary of nearly one million forints, shares his vision with Viktor Orbán on social issues; this is a bit controversial. In the previous term, the Secretary of State promised that he would continue, and that the model of social careers would be introduced.In comparison, we have seen a humiliating gross income supplement of HUF 5-10 thousand in the last year alone, which did not increase their basic income, but received it as a kind of bonus. We don't see this going on in the corner either. What is the idea of trying to change the hopeless situation? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-10-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-113	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I continue to say that it is possible to talk about emigration if someone does not come back, so I think it is worth paying attention to. I mentioned examples where, by the way, after working abroad, which affected hundreds of thousands of millions of people in an almost neighbouring country, there was a wave of returns, which, by the way, resulted in a serious economic result for that country at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises and other investments - Poland. So let's wait and see. I think there's a lot going on here, and I trust that we can agree on how the possibility of a return will turn out, what opportunities do those who have trained themselves in the social sphere see before you. The sentence he said about taking the 13th month's salary and the same pay table since 2008 is all true. If I remember correctly, they took the 13th month's income before 2010, not after. Indeed, this meant a wage reduction that today gives the lowest income to those working in the public sector in the social sphere. Let's not forget that the social sphere is a wider circle than you've been talking about. Let me tell you facts that show that working in this sphere, in other types of employment, I am thinking of foster parents, in the next period, is such a serious, not only a rise in wages, but also a serious social and employment security that means the recognition of foster parents as an employment relationship. Here, in this circle, in the period before our government, 3,200 people worked as foster parents without having any employment relationship. By the way, we have now created a permanent relationship with children under 12 years of age, and we have also increased the number of people entitled to special home allowances, and there have been a number of other measures that show the direction. On the social round table, we will, of course, continue to negotiate, as promised. What you mentioned was a starting point for wage increases. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2014-06-10-114	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " Would the LMP continue to take the children into the forest, but what does the government plan? " The title is given below. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-115	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, LMP has submitted individual legislation on forest schools in the last cycle. We have based our intention on the fact that the state does not assume any real and sufficient responsibility on this issue. Every parent who can pay serious money for a four - day forest school. Any parent who can. But what about those who can't do this? People who live and raise children - even more children - in a situation where the family register is heavily burdened with HUF 25,000? This is why LMP proposed greater State aid and contribution last year. Although our proposal was sympathetic to the government representatives, it was swept off the table. Yet, Fidesz-KDNP does not consider it important to teach our children to love, to know and to honor the environment in addition to the lexical knowledge, and to teach them a lot of teaching material. If not, then at least once a year, let our children be placed on the bench in nature, not just reading about the forest and the values to be preserved, but also seeing it. Environmental education is essential, whatever color and ideology is a government. You are constantly talking about the physical and mental balance of children, which is not enough for everyday physical education, which would require environmental education. A forest school would be necessary for this. We put a proposal on the table, balancing that not only better schools, but not only better children with a better fate, should have the privilege of a forest school. What do you do? Do you intend to review the existing legislation and make sure that as many children as possible get to forest school? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2014-06-10-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-117	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Although I understand the sense of humor in the matter that the LMP would continue to take the children into the woods, I suggest that they do not do so. Because party politics is prohibited in schools, so LMP shouldn't take the children from school, leave them alone, and make such proposals as you have made, which of course should be considered. Although, if we are talking about how environmental awareness appears, whether it is built or the relationship with the natural environment in Hungarian school today, I think that the National Basics Plan in this case is a very important step forward. And you can say that we are slamming into children, and we have also done all kinds of practical experience, which, by the way, is a visit to the forests or excursions; we have just made a very important step forward, if you think about everyday physical education, which also points in this direction. Or that we recommend to all schools that they be present in their pedagogical program, at least once during the kindergarten period, all children should go to primary school and lower school to a forest nursery or school. We have launched a program in cooperation with the Swiss Fund, perhaps you have heard that by winning a green nursery, eco-school, which will be able to expand these programs from the last year until 2016. Moreover, the provision in this case is that if the school integrates these forest schools into its compulsory programme, their local programme is mandatory, it is otherwise financed by the maintainer. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-118	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Ákos Kara, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Instead of aid, there is a chance - the number of people employed above 4.1 million. " Congressman Ákos Kara has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear fellow Members, For the previous governments, I say for the period 2002-2010, let us not forget what we looked like, what the country looked like in terms of unemployment, before we talked about the fact that between 2002 and 2010, the number of unemployed people increased from 238 thousand to nearly 474 thousand. This is important, because there are many Hungarian families who still feel the disadvantages of that badly steered, misdirected period on their skin and still cannot work off the debts accumulated there. In terms of employment, therefore, overall, we had a large competitive disadvantage during that period. From 2010 onwards, there has been an increase in employment and even an accelerated growth, suggesting that government measures will increasingly have a positive impact. I would like to point out to the attention of my fellow Members that, for example, the action plan for the protection of jobs in comparison between the counties shows that not only in a bad economic environment, but also in the context of an expanding economy, Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, can provide very serious support. Having examined the data of the KSH, we can conclude that there were 328 thousand more people employed than at the time of the 2010 change of government, I believe that this is a very important and very important step and a very important and significant result from the past period. At the moment, the unemployment rate is 8.1 percent according to KSH data, which is also a good figure in European comparison. If, of course, the question is whether we have work to do, of course, we have a lot to do, but overall, I think that we think that the processes are good, the processes are right. Dear Minister, So the question is that the competition sector has expanded by 187 thousand compared to 2010, yet we hear the opposite of this important number from left-wing politicians. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Do you think they're doing this for political gain, Mr. Secretary, or are they just in trouble with numbers? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-121	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, between 2002-2010, during the period of previous governments, the number of people employed in Hungary decreased by 90 thousand and the number of unemployed increased by nearly a quarter of a million. In 2010, there was a turnaround and economic performance gradually improved. According to recent data, 375 thousand more people have jobs, while the unemployed have 140,000 fewer people than four years ago. What was the result of this change in employment policy? On the one hand, entrepreneurship has decreased significantly, the focus of the tax system has shifted from production to income taxation to consumption and increased taxation of economic sectors whose competitiveness has not been weakened. It is a special pleasure for us that various support and lending opportunities have been opened to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The record growth mentioned by the Member therefore has a major role to play in reducing taxes on labour, many well-targeted employment programmes, winter public employment, measures to stimulate activity, and the turn of growth in the second half of 2013, since only economic growth can permanently and steadily increase employment. In the last seven months, there has been a steady and accelerated increase in the number of employees in businesses over four. This is why Hungary can also see a positive change compared to the average of the European Union. The unemployment rate in the 28 Member States of the European Union was 10.8 percent, with an increase of 0.3 percentage points. On the other hand, this indicator has decreased significantly in Hungary in recent years. Our objective is therefore unchanged, achieving full employment, which means keeping the number of employees above 4 million permanently [[The president's ringing the bell indicates that the time frame is over.]] , and unemployment must be brought down to less than 4 per cent of frictional unemployment. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-122	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy: "Another tax benefit extension or write-off? " The title is given below. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-10-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, At present, family tax benefits can be used for personal income tax, employee contributions, health insurance contributions in kind, financial health insurance contributions and pension contributions. In the recent convergence programme, key reforms include the extension of family tax incentives to employers' contributions. Is that a real intention or a typo? [[15.50]] If this is a real plan, please explain in detail how you imagine this measure. Please describe the impact that this would have on the income situation of the families, the size of the contributions, the revenue and expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund and the Pension Insurance Fund. If this is a typo, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it was also misspelled in the English version, as it is also there. It is certainly a typo that, thanks to you, the concept of employer's contribution has now ceased, as it was converted into a social contribution tax in 2012. So it's not clear whether that's what they were thinking or whether they replaced the name with employee contributions. Explain how it is possible for the Ministry of National Economy to prepare the government to accept and send a document to the European Union that no one will notice the error. I would also like to ask Minister whether the convergence programme includes another tax benefit extension, or whether the economic portfolio and the government are confusing the employer's and employee's contributions with each other. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-10-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In answer to your question, there has been a simple typo in this document, but thank you for making this point here, in front of the House, and giving me the opportunity to explain what really happened here. As you know, the tax system has been reformed since 2010 and, in this context, the family tax reduction has been re-introduced. From 1 January 2014, we extended this family tax relief to those who could not benefit from the tax. This option was opened when this benefit could be used at the expense of their individual employee contributions. The transposition of this into the convergence programme was presented in this 64-page document, where an unfortunate error occurred, and the employer's contribution was indeed included instead of the employee's contribution, but this term was no longer published, a one-time typo. The Commission did not object to this and did not comment on this; this is clear from the context of the document. I think you've drawn our attention to an important typo. Thank you for your comment. I am pleased that only this type of error has been found in this document, because earlier in the Convergence Programme the deficits and growth figures were not correct. I think that if there are only so many errors in a 64-page document, then the country is better off. Back in the day, a series of errors occurred in this document, neither the deficits nor the growth nor the debt indicators were correct. Once again, I would like to thank the Commissioner for bringing this to our attention. I trust that you will follow our later documents with such attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-126	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Agriculture: "Is the procurement of the Ministry of Agriculture Committee of Hungaricum for its communication tasks in 2014 exempted from abuse? " The title is given below. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, In the previous cycle, one of the most typical activities of the Orbán government was to fatten up the government's close-ups with public money. I guess I don't have to introduce you to Lajos Simicska. In the latest edition of the Public Procurement Notice, a notice was published to the Hungaricum Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture, of which you are the chairman, on business contracts for the performance of its communication tasks in 2014. At the net business fee of 126 million HUF 300 thousand, two companies, Bell and Partners Kft., including Joung and Partners Kft. They're sharing. Let's take a look at the two companies. Bell and Partners, the owner of the company receiving regular government orders, Dr. András András Viskei, who doubled the company's revenues between 2011 and 13, increased from 1.5 billion to HUF 3 billion 300 million. The owner of an old company of Dr. András Viskei's is today called Dr. Lajos Simicska. The owner of the other company is Tibor Kuna, his partner is Sándor Holbok, who is currently the state-owned HM Arsenal Electromechanical Zrt. and Nemzeti Infokommunikációs Szolgáltató Zrt. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Mezőföldi Erdő- és Vadgazgatás Zrt. and Mahart, Magyar Hajózási Zrt. under the first Orbán government. He was a member of his board of directors. In view of the apparent personal relationship of the winners with the government, I would like to ask whether, in relation to the procurement procedure in question, an extra scrutiny of the internal audit department of the portfolio might not be justified. Doesn't it bother you that in the practice of your wallet, you can't even talk about the appearance of regularity? Finally, do you not feel that the Hungaricum Committee is being reduced and classified as a paying place by such and similar procedures? I would like to ask for a full-scale reply from Minister and his views on these companies and on the funds that have been made available to people close by the various governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-129	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Rural Development launched a negotiated procurement procedure with the announcement No 690-2014-20, where there are obviously any number of candidates to be expected, an undertaking contract to carry out the communication tasks of the Ministry of Rural Development Hungarikum Commission for 2014, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 2 January 2014, so it had a wide range of access to the information. The procurement procedure was made up of two parts. For the first part, one applicant submitted a valid tender. For the second part, two candidates, of which the more favourable bidder won the order, i.e. the tender. Honourable Congressman, Among the arguments you have listed, I'm sorry, I don't see a single one that couldn't have been applied for or won, especially if there were so few candidates. Conducting the procedure under the legal supervision of the Ministry of National Development and Provital Zrt. has been involved as a professional operator and has complied with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act for each step. So I don't think it's justified that we follow all the rules. In the framework of the public procurement procedure, the Hungaricum Committee will organise a campaign to promote Hungaricums from 15 May to 15 June, with the aim of raising awareness of our national values as widely as possible and strengthening our national cohesion. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-10-130	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Agriculture: " Is it time to strengthen the environmental institutional system? ! " with the title " Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-131	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, The Fundamental Law obliges an increase in the performance of the economy to serve at the same time to improve the quality of life of the population concerned, create additional jobs and promote environmental and nature protection aspects. On the basis of our experience, however, there are a number of cases for which nothing has been done either in the last decades or in the time of the Orbán government which began its second term. For example, the health of thousands of residents of one part of the city of Szombathely is seriously threatened by the noise and air pollution of a woodchip board production plant, the dust they cause. The residents have been protesting for years, but without success. The municipality and the environmental authorities are constantly pushing the task among themselves and giving the company concerned time to make the necessary environmental investments, because this will cost money and reduce profits. In the meantime, the plant was owned abroad, reducing the number of workers there by about half, but it gained billions of HUF from the economic operational programme as a result of technological development and job creation. Unfortunately, pollution has not stopped until today. That is why I am asking the Minister what measures he intends to take so that this and similar cases can finally be resolved. How do you intend to strengthen the institutional system of environmental protection so that they can be taken into account? How do you plan to enforce development policy support only for companies that serve not only the profit capping of capital but also the interests of the domestic population in a healthy environment and employment. Thank you very much. [[16.00]]
u2014-06-10-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I find it very useful to draw attention to this important issue, which also concerns the people of Saturday. I've been briefed on this problem. I've been informed. I have to say, however, that a minister does not have the direct authority to intervene in official procedures to resolve such difficult, complicated issues, but I am following up on this matter. For me, too, it is very important to have an environment that ensures the health of people on Saturdays, not to pollute the residential area. Obviously jobs are also important, it is important to have an economic life in the settlement. If I remember correctly, this company is about 150 years old, and I do not know whether it is owned by foreigners or not, I understand that it is a Hungarian enterprise. I am not sure that my data is accurate, but that is not the most important issue in my view, but that we should find a solution within the framework of the administrative procedure that will ensure the health of the people who live there and ensure a healthy environment. Here, the company is expected to receive a few months' delay to reduce or eliminate pollution, but this procedure is still under way, so I will be able to inform you about it in the end. We need to find a solution that is soothing for the people who live there and that also ensures employment. As far as the environmental institutional system is concerned - since I should not be allowed to go into economic development because it is not within the scope of the portfolio - I would like to point out the environmental institutional system in the sense that we have just started a program, an air quality meter, air pollution measurement network, which is a HUF 1.5 billion development, and one, the XXI. We can create a measuring machine park, which will help us do official work, help us to have an accurate picture of the environment, air quality, and take measures accordingly. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Roland Mengyi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: "In addition to the plan, industry grew in April. How can Hungary become the centre of production in Central Europe? " with the title " Congressman Roland Mengyi is the one to speak. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Following a 8.1 percent increase in February in March 2014, industrial production was 10,6 percent higher than a year earlier, which represents a three-year peak in industrial expansion. The latest positive industrial, external trade and GDP figures show the success of the government's active industrial policy, which aims to make the contribution of industrial production to the total national product highest in Hungary in the coming years. The high performance of industrial production is mainly due to the significant increase in vehicle production and related downstream sales. However, it is also a welcome fact that, after three years, the output of the electrotechnical industry was able to grow again. The healthy expansion of industry shows that 11 out of the 13 lows of manufacturing can be seen as an increase in production. During the first quarter, industrial performance increased in all regions of Hungary, for example in Northern Hungary by 5.1 percent, including Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County by 3.6 percent in the first quarter of this year. On the basis of economic trends, industrial growth can be expected in the coming months, which is supported by a 28.1 percent increase in all new orders in manufacturing sectors. Data from the past period show that the industrial recovery policy of previous years has established the growth of the Hungarian industry and economy. In view of the above, I ask the Minister how Hungary can become the centre of production in Central Europe, and what role North Hungary and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County can play. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to this question will be given by Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-137	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in terms of the share of industrial production in gross domestic production, Hungary is now ranked 3rd among the 28 EU countries. This means, in any case, that we can count on the weight and proportion of industrial production in terms of economic growth. In recent years, the growth of the Hungarian economy has been mainly driven by exports, including industrial production, automotive, electronics and logistics. These are therefore the major driving sectors on which industrial development can be built in the future, but this is not enough in itself, and this should be broadened and extended to other sectors. To this end, the government is preparing an industrial development programme in which the food industry, construction, tourism and health industry will also have significant development resources. I think that this is how we can expand the proportion of industrial production in Hungary, and this is how we can make our growth more stable. It is a happy fact that our programmes announced in recent months have an echo, such as the programme for electromobility, Plan Jedlik Ányos. This would increase the share of renewable energy use to above 11 per cent in the coming months, thus promoting new jobs. Honourable Congressman, Given that you represent North Hungary, I would also like to quote that in the first quarter of 2014, all three counties of North Hungary were characterised by an outstanding increase in employment rates and a reduction in unemployment rates. Compared to a year earlier, KSH reported an industrial expansion of 3.6 percent in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, 8.6 percent in Heves County, and 6 percent in Nógrád County. The North-Hungarian region produced 13,7 percent of total industrial production in the first quarter of 2014, so the region did very well. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-138	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Ander, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Agriculture: " Why does the government tolerate the villages of South Somogy being destroyed by profit - hungry agroligarchs of foreign interest and putting our thousand - year - old villages in a poplar coffin to rest forever? " The title is given below. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Please answer the simple question of the extent to which, following their four-year government and future measures, the Italian wiener typical of South Somogy will be repressed. I would like to remind the government of the writing of Zoltán Fábry, the Hungarian sociologist from the Highlands, in which the sad fate of the village of Bátyú in Transcarpathia was outlined: "The ancient Hungarian land was taken away by the Czechoslovaks, with the help of the traitorous, degenerate, red Count Mihály Károlyi, with the help of the most talented politician of all time, by the help of Count Lónyay's 3400 acres of brothers, and distributed among 75 Czechoslovak settlement families. The Hungarian people of the village received two moons from the estate for five thousand crowns as a cemetery. " The past seems to be spooky because what's the situation here and now? What has changed compared to this in Görgetegen, Rinyaszentkirály and unfortunately many other villages in Somogy? Have any official impact assessments been carried out on the environmental and social devastating effects of poplar plantations spread over 100 hectar tables? How does the slogans promoting biodiversity conservation, the locality of the rural population, the integration of the rural gypsy population, and the tolerance of Latin American-type agriculture, which makes from the ground a barren desert, and from local society a social waste heap, which does not provide work for the rural population? What we now see happening in the southern part of Koppany's former land is the depraved, cynical, extreme-liberal, SZDSZ, sick idea, according to which the Hungarian village is a medieval reptile - but Jobbik does not ask for it. Why do they not follow in practice that the land use monopoly of profit-oriented agricultural companies and thieves with the slightest sense of social responsibility should be broken and the idea of Imre Somogyi and László Németh's Garden Hungary should finally be opened? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Who has the real reins in the hands of what kind of background powers if in certain suspicious lands, even the commissioner for accountability and the prosecutor's hand shakes? Thank you for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister. [[16.10]]
u2014-06-10-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I see you're looking forward to the answer to the nation's questions of fate, of which I don't want to make a joke about the world, and I would like to treat you with sufficient seriousness on a scale up to the support of the poplar plantation. So I'll try to sum it up. I may not be able to touch all areas. One thing is that there is a land ownership and land use issue, a foreign owned company currently owned by Italy. Ladies and Gentlemen, It's based on a 1994 sale. There was a time when it was absolutely right to buy land for foreign companies in Hungary on the basis of land law. In such an offensive tone, to ask our government why it did not take away the land of the person who in 1994 - I stress, under the law at the time - could have been the owner, at least I think it is objectionable. I see no legal solution, no constitutional solution that can be done. But if you can do that, please submit it to the National Assembly. The government of national affairs, the current government, is also interested - we have said this on several occasions today - in reducing the proportion of large estates. We need to raise the small estates to 80 percent. We need to reduce the big ones by 20 percent. To do so, there are several instruments, with the land law's property maximum, land use rights being limited; the " land for farmers " programme, for example, where 6 thousand new landowners have entered as land users. That's one side of the question. Some people, of course, support the great estates. We'll take that as well. The other, the other end of the scale, the planting of the poplar tree. We are talking about a few thousand acres of large estates that plant poplar trees on a few hundred hectares. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I can't believe this would change the picture of the South Somogy landscape, no matter how loudly we try to make it feel like this. The poplar tree is supported; 6-7 in golden crowned fields. We are all experiencing a change in the weather. We need to increase forest areas, including the area of energy forests. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior: " How can the Ministry stand by and watch the mass employment of public workers without contract? " with the title " Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-10-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have been dealing with the situation of public workers here in Hungary for quite some time, and I have received a signal from Bábonymegyer, but there have been reports of this problem from several settlements. This is about the employment of public workers in this country without a contract of employment. The reason for this may, in my opinion, be, at least, that I can conclude that the decision on public works applications is only now being taken, and until the number is approved by the labour centres, they will not be able to sign with public workers. However, this is not a simple administrative delay. I keep telling you guys, it'd be nice to think about things first and do something about it and not rush it. This situation could also have been prevented if the government had planned and prepared the programme in time. We've really been watching this movie for years now that the Orbán government hasn't been able to prepare public works in time and everything is collapsing on it. This is a specific threat to people's lives. Although the authorities have been turning a blind eye for many years, some municipalities have been undisturbed in the employment of public workers in certain transitional periods without any contract of any kind, and I stress that without any protection of labour law. This is important, and that is why I said that you can go on living for these people, because there is no wage, no employment protection, no workers' rights; public workers have no choice if they do not want to fall out of the programme and on aid, they have to take the job. Specifically, in Pábonymegyer, they had these people do hard physical work: they were mowed, which is also dangerous. If anything happens during this period, the employer shall not be held liable in any way for compliance with occupational safety regulations. And if these people get sick, they can't go on sick leave. It is inexorable that the two ministries involved - both the Ministry of Interior and the NGM - assist in the black employment of public workers without a word. This is a serious violation, Minister, for which the labour inspectorate normally imposes a serious fine. I ask with all due respect, Minister, why labour surveillance is idly watching this, and how many cases have you held checks in public works programmes at all. What immediate steps will the Minister of the Interior take to end the black community work? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Let's hear it for the LMP benches.]]
u2014-06-10-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think we should disperse conceptual disorders first. The conceptual confusion stems from talking about public workers, but it asks questions about public workers. Public service is a sanction. It's a sanction that's being imposed on a person on behalf of the state because of his deviant behavior or not paying the fine that's been imposed on him. Public employment is an opportunity for people who are not hired by the market to work, and the government employs them with the help of municipalities, with the help of public companies. We spend 183 billion forints on public employment to ensure that these people receive adequate wages. I think you're interested in the public workers, and that's where you asked that question. I must add that we have not yet received information that would prove that we employ a black worker. Are we doing a checkup? Yeah. We only did 409 inspections in Somogy County, over 10,000 in the country. Thus, a continuous check is carried out on which a separate group goes and checks both the books and whether the wages have been properly paid, whether the persons employed have received adequate OSH education. What's more, we're also checking if they're employed in the job they've been asked to do in the Ministry of the Interior. So we didn't know about the black job. 38 irregularities were detected in Somogy County during 409 inspections, which we tried to eliminate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-146	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Lajos Szűcs, representative of Fidesz, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: "In May, the budget shows a significant surplus. How has the Hungarian budget been balanced in recent years? " with the title " Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary, please.
u2014-06-10-147	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thanks to the sacrifices of the Hungarian people and the government, the efforts of the past years have brought their results. While in 2010 Hungary was in a difficult situation even compared to the Greeks [[István Józsa: That is not true!]] With high public debt, low employment and poor competitiveness indicators, we are doing better today in a number of important areas than under previous socialist governments. Since 2010, our public debt has decreased, we have managed to reduce the government deficit to below 3 per cent, and since the 2010 government change, nearly 370 thousand more people have worked. Socialist governments have not once been able to reduce the budget deficit to below 3 per cent, and, even with their irresponsible policy, they have achieved a deficit of over 7 per cent four times between 2002 and 2010. Moreover, during the eight years of socialist governments, Hungary had three times the highest public deficit in the European Union. Thus, it is hardly surprising that in the eight years of socialist governments, public debt has increased by nearly HUF 13 000 billion, more than double. Dear Minister, Thanks to the government's work and successful fiscal policy, Hungary has been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure since 2004. Moreover, the government's efforts are now recognised by the European Commission and international organisations. For 2014 and 2015, the budget deficit is projected to be below 3 per cent. Hungary has a good chance of becoming a European success story in the coming years. On the basis of current processes, we can continue to be able to keep budget deficits below 3 per cent in the coming years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of the above, I ask the Minister: how has the Hungarian budget been balanced in recent years? [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa: Miraculously.]] [[16.20]]
u2014-06-10-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-149	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to give the news that in May there was a surplus of HUF 269 billion in public finances. So at the end of April, when all sorts of opposition proposals were made about what was going to happen here, we said that at the end of April, the Hungarian budget is in a difficult state, in the first months of the year it collects the greater deficit, and in the second half of the year, revenue is usually better achieved. The same is happening this year, so from this point of view it will be below 3 per cent this year, with a lack of public finances. What was the cause of this deficit reduction, the deficit reduction, in particular the government's actions in recent years, some of which have shared the burden - I told you before the agenda - we have been able to share the burden more evenly through the tax system, the banking sector, the energy sector and the telecommunications sector are now taking part in this. Export performance has remained good throughout, the Hungarian government has encouraged as many people as possible to participate in this with supplier programs, and this is also an incentive for economic growth and job creation, as far as possible. Internal demand has also increased in recent months, and I am referring here to the fact that the various wage measures, including the wage increase of teachers, have significantly increased the consumption potential of people, but I also feel that this includes introducing a family tax reduction and starting a reduction in the costs, as it has left more money for families. Last but not least, I would like to mention the whitening of the economy, as we have also taken decisive, one-way steps. Among other things, the introduction of online cash registers is increasingly true in retail trade, more and more entrepreneurs have to pay taxes on actual traffic, which is good news for all honest entrepreneurs and honest taxpayers, because if more people pay taxes, they have to pay less taxes. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-150	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the defense minister: " American military machines in Hungary after Israeli spy planes? " with the title " Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, We can still clearly remember the case of the big scandal of Israeli spy planes from 2010. In connection with the incident during the Bajnai government, Fidesz called for sound investigations, but after they came to the government, they had already laid low on the case, and we still do not know what happened four years ago, what foreign spy planes were doing in our country. A few days ago, news like this shuddered in Debrecen. The war situation in East Ukraine is also a cause for concern in Hungary, and most people do not want Hungary involved in a war of foreign interests. That's why the news on one of the Fidesz's nearby Internet portals was terrifying that a well-known Russian journalist wrote on his Twitter page that several military carriers landed on board military aircraft at the airport in Debrecen. According to his records, the planes took off from Iraq, the United States base, and they're moving cargo to the Ukrainian government. The reason for this information is well founded is that the President of Ukraine, Petro Porosenko, has concluded a military agreement with the US Central Intelligence Agency, and it is no secret that the US intends to increase its military presence in Poland, so it is reasonable to ask whether they have any similar plans with Hungary. Dear Minister, The traffic director of Debrecen Airport denied that American military aircraft had arrived in Debrecen, but I am still curious to hear from Minister about the case. Have any military aircraft from a foreign country recently landed in Debrecen or in any of our other cities? Has this been requested to the government? At the request of the United States or NATO, would the government intervene in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, even at a level that allows the use of its airspace and military objects. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let us clarify the false news that served as a reason for your question. On the one hand, not only american, but no military aircraft landed in Debrecen, and on the other hand, no military aircraft used any domestic airport to transport any cargo to Ukraine. So the news is a duck. At the same time, it is perfectly natural that military aircraft from allied states use Hungarian airports, mainly for fueling purposes. This took place in 282 cases last year, while this year was 186 times. Similarly, the machines of the Hungarian Defence Forces use other airports in their long-term transport operations. In view of this, it is natural that foreign aircraft have landed and boarded recently from Hungarian airports, including by carrying out tasks such as "Open Sky" flight, standby control, training flight, change of stocks, transportation of state air transport or supplies. As far as Ukraine is concerned, I would like to ask my fellow Member with great respect that, if possible, even at the level of mention, he does not involve the Hungarian Defence Forces in the Ukrainian crisis. Hungary is interested in and intends to contribute to a peaceful political solution to the crisis. And as for your last hypothetical question, well, we can't seriously deal with assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-10-154	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: " Does the government help the cash register users he has transferred? " with the title " Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, We have passed another stage in the scandalous cash register history of one and a half years ago, and the continuing government missteps have brought further bitter fruitage: 25 000 entrepreneurs lost their state aid without their own fault, acting in good faith, because many in the procurement system managed by the NAV did not receive their cash registers for time. The LMP has repeatedly proposed an extension of the deadline in February, which would have granted a deadline for the changeover and the mobilisation of the aid until 30 June 2014. For small and medium-sized enterprises, especially when it comes to several cash registers, these amounts of HUF 50,000 are meaty, and the government could only afford a cynical commentary: there was an opportunity for businesses to get a discount. Unfortunately, this is not true; many entrepreneurs have been in this situation without their own fault, and the supplier has not been able to meet the deadline. [[Attila Móring József takes the notary seat.]] We propose that the government withdraw the deadline-bound grant regulation, which is also requested by the National Trade Association and the Associated Customers Association. And before any new deadline is set, do the professional work that has been saved: consult distributors, service providers, stakeholders' representatives and prepare an impact assessment. So I ask the Minister what the government will do to keep its credibility, and the 25,000 entrepreneurs who would fall out of support without their own fault will get it. Thank you in advance. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask for the answer, Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I'm very sorry that you took the side of the black economy and those who seek out new tricks in this case. In this government, no one has been able to change a deadline more than once. May 2013 was the first deadline, which was extended to December 2013 and then another two months until the end of February 2014. Now you're asking us to push that deadline again. But I'm sorry, you can buy 120 distributors on the market today, in the autumn of 2013 you could buy an online cash register from the shelves, if I went into a store. The government granted a discount up to a certain deadline, who could not comply with this deadline, unfortunately fell from this discount. Now you're telling me we're gonna push the deadline again, give you a discount, give us a number of 25 grand from the air. Where did you get this number? Even the NAV doesn't have a summary. You're gonna give me numbers here in Parliament like a slap in the stomach? Mr President, before you ask a question, I ask you to be informed, and I have seen some indiscretion behind your question. This was a program that became extremely successful, more than 110,000 machines are now connected to the system, which can provide more than 200 million data to the NAV servers, which the NAV is constantly following. Entrepreneurs who have not yet been able to make this machine adjustment must assume that they do not wish to do so. You are absolutely right - let me highlight one point - there were three distributors who had already submitted a faulty machine. [[16.30]] In view of this faulty machine, we were able to extend the deadline, but I do not see any point in going into another deadline. You have to switch to this system. Traffic data shows that tax revenue can be collected much more accurately with these machines than with previous tricky tools. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-158	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Representative Alexander Font, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Agriculture: " What is the truth about Kishantos? ' The title is given below. Congressman Font Sándor has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Last year, in the framework of the "land for farmers" programme, the National Land Fund Management Organization announced a tender by the Kishantos Rural Development Centre Közhasznú Nonprofit Kft. the areas rented by him until then, since their previous lease agreement expired at that time. The new tenants who won the tender had difficulty occupying their new land, as the former tenant made it difficult to take possession. In parallel, the former tenant also challenged the tender results in a court of law. The Court of Justice of Székesfehérvár rejected the applicant Kishantos Rural Development Centre for Public Use Nonprofit Kft. in the first instance in one of these proceedings. It is in its legal position that the rights of the new tenants have been taken into account only in the possession of the disputed land, and therefore they cannot accept it. In connection with the decision, the Non-profit Centre for Rural Development Kishantos stated that it did not agree with the decision of the court and referred to further proceedings. Dear Minister, What I would like to ask you is who is right about Kishantos on the basis of all this, whether the wallet is expecting further litigation in this case, or whether, after all, the candidates who have been declared winners can take possession of the said land. I'm looking forward to your reply. (In the notary seat, Mrs Lorant Hegedűs Mr. Schmuck replaced Ms. Erzsébet.)
u2014-06-10-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The answer will be given by Minister Sándor Fazekas. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-10-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad that Kishantosi Kft. Your question arises again before this House, because we have dealt with this on several occasions, and there are now new developments in this matter. There is only one answer to the question of who is right: that the National Earth Fund, the Ministry of Rural Development, is right in this matter. This has just been confirmed by the court with two judgments. It is a snap response to all those who have always wanted to make political capital out of this issue, often against their own opinions expressed in other comments. So according to the court, the Hungarian state is right and the farmers have won. So farmers can take possession of the land owned earlier by a capital company. We have announced the " land for farmers, " and there are nine winners who can start farming. The outrageous obstruction that made the winning candidates unable to obtain their own land, the ones they rent, now terminated by the court. Dear Parliament, In this case, everything is different than Kishantosi Kft. - If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. After all, on the one hand, the company in Kishantos is not a public benefit, has no tax return, and even the owner or representative of the company has admitted that they are not engaged in public benefit activities. Kishantosi Kft. carries out organic farming without keeping any animals while the applicants have undertaken livestock farming. The education they conducted is also non-accredited training, so it belongs to some other genre. In fact, this is not really the centre of a farm, but the center of a party, the Living Chain for Hungary. That is why my fellow liberal Members have such a strong interest in this subject. So we saw a political battle. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No kidding.]] here in the recent period in Parliament, not in favour of the "land for farmers. " [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Yes, we believe the court has made the right choice. We trust that justice will prevail, and the representatives of the party center in Kishantos will stop the unnecessary litigation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-162	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister: "Does the government really want to nationalise construction services, or where is the state planning office? " with the title " On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, will answer the question. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2014-06-10-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, A government decision issued last year in the Hungarian engineering community, which sets out the basic principles for the implementation of EU programmes, has raised serious concerns. Point 5 of the Government Decision states that in the case of large infrastructure projects and real estate investments related to public property, the design documentation is compiled as a public service with public capacity. Although this sentence has not been spelled out more accurately, many have had doubts over recent years that the government may wish to nationalise engineering services for any investment involving any public or European Union resources. In the absence of a more detailed explanation, it is not possible to know exactly how a design documentation can be conceived as a public service and, in the case of larger investments, who is entitled to carry out the design work. According to press reports, the government would practically bring back the system of state planning offices in socialism established on the Soviet sample, which raises serious legal and professional concerns. During the dictatorship, 20-25 thousand people worked in state planning offices, in line with the dogmatic political objectives of current governments, and no one would have thought that a quarter of a century after the fall of dictatorship a similar institution could arise again. For these reasons, I expect a concrete and direct answer to the question of whether the government is planning to set up state engineering offices and, if so, with what legal authority and organisational and supervisory system. I would also like to know how, in the event of the introduction of the new system, you will expect to exclude tendering for engineering services in the future. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-10-164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-06-10-165	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you for your question, and also for the close follow-up of 1731/2013 in the interests of the Hungarian engineering community. Government Resolution No 1. I would like to inform you of what is the main motivation of this government decision. Of course, details are being drawn up, and if the Member wishes to be given detailed information, I would be happy to include you in the position of these processes, whether in writing or in a live language. So I would like to say that we are trying to protect the public interest in the case of public investment. Our problem is that over the last 20 years, the custom has become evident that all professions supporting the state, which in principle represent the interests of the investor, have been disorganized in the interests of the state. We don't have our own engineering network, we don't have our own technical control network, we don't have our own project management network, it's all services that the state itself uses. If you have a large motorway construction or see Metro 4 construction, either local governments or the state is forced to give out offices with very high value assignments. It is not entirely clear, there is a suspicion as to how we can enforce guarantees against these designers, how costs may run by 20-30-40 percent for a motorway investment, for a road construction, for a subway construction, for how such increases may arise. That's why we want a new system. I agree with you that setting up a state engineering firm is not the answer. We have been negotiating with the Chamber of Engineers over the last few months, trying to reach an agreement. I am sure that the state must have a capacity, where public infrastructure investments take place, so that the State can control the planning process, have the ability to enforce a guarantee against designers, and be able to protect the State's interest at extra costs. This is a very difficult issue concerning the whole building system and the investment system for EU funds. I'd be happy to give you information, because the work that's going on for the period 2014-20 is planning exactly what's going on in the public interest and what's being outsourced. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'd like to minimize outsourcing to protect the state's economic interest. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-10-166	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The list of questions is closed. We will move on to the next agenda. The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. Act 3, Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors and Act XXXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure Commission reports submitted to the bill amending the Act and discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. [[16.40]] Antal Rogán and other Members' own motion T/146. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/146/14. they have been granted a serial number. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/146/16. on a serial number and a summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/146/17. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I give the floor first to Ákos Kara, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, that the Legislative Committee is T/146. CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Act 3, Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors and Act XXXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure It discussed a bill amending the Act and proposed 25 amendments in favour of 6 negative votes and a report in proportion to 26 yes and 6 non-voting votes. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, the amendment proposed by Gábor Fodor, an independent Member, which was originally submitted by the Judicial Committee, in order to ensure consistency with the recommendation system for parliamentary and local elections, and thus with regard to the recommendation. In addition to the original petitioner and the governing parties, Group Leader András Schiffer supported this motion. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, part of the summarised amendment is the amendment initiated and adopted by the Legislative Committee. Among other things, the proposal changes the title of the bill: "Change certain laws relating to local governments in relation to elections, " to this title. Furthermore, the amending proposal includes the proposal of our former fellow Member, András Schiffer, which facilitates the conditions for the nomination, thus facilitating the conditions for the local government candidacy. An important amendment is that from the capital's compensatory list, the party can receive a mandate in proportion to the number of votes cast on the mayors in the metropolitan districts, which is now weighted by the population of the metropolitan districts, so an important proportion adjustment has been adopted or proposed. The proposed amendment introduces the legal institution of the double majority, which means that the vote of the mayors of the metropolitan districts representing more than half of the population of the capital, in addition to the majority of the majority of the capital's population by mandate, is necessary for the adoption of a proposal in the Metropolitan Assembly. I think that this is also an institution strengthening the principles of proportionality and proportionality. Overall, the summarised amendment therefore serves in particular to comply with the constitutional requirements of proportionality with the rules on the new municipal elections in the capital city, and I therefore ask that, after the adoption of the amendment, this House also supports the adoption of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that, in addition to these factual events, anyone who followed the debate on the Internet or on the ground could have witnessed, in fact, an elegant or less elegant debate and disputa on certain subjects, and perhaps it was not customary for this debate to take place, in essence, between the opposition parties, among the present representatives of opposition parties. I think that it is worth considering before a municipal election that, even in terms of the capital, it is worth turning to political forces who are obviously able to show some kind of harmony in terms of the responsible way in terms of city leadership, in terms of a consensual force, rather than towards directions that could lead the leadership of the capital, such as the capital, towards some kind of quarrel and quarrel, but this is true, of course, for all the governments of Hungary. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minority opinions will now be presented in a total of 7 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MEP of MSZP.
u2014-06-10-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We're arguing with the government, not with each other. We have challenged the entire procedure, which took place in the Legislative Committee, because there was a six-page new text on which the President had no time or opportunity to prepare, so we, the Socialist Members, did not take part in the vote. We think that Gergely Gulyás's amendments alone admit that the bill is against the law, because it shows disproportion, because the vote of the voters of a district is somewhere five times as much as the vote of the voters of another district. On the other hand, we said in the debate that it is not a solution to a problem that characterizes Budapest, to the debate between the districts and the capital, if this is to be resolved by amending the electoral law. We think that's what the laws of jurisdiction are for, and that's what the laws of responsibilities are for. If there are such operational problems, it should be amended there and not changed or resolved in the context of a electoral procedure. The amendment tabled does not address the question of disproportionateness, and even another amendment, which weighs the votes of Members, we believe that it raises another fundamental question, a constitutional question, a question of equality of seats, because the mayors who come in have different votes, so in our view this principle is also violated, and this constitutional principle is also violated. The main problem we see is that the principle of directness and the provision of the Fundamental Law clearly state that local government representatives are elected by voters by direct vote. We see this law building a so-called delegation system, voters voting for mayors, and mayors entering the Metropolitan Assembly as a delegation. So we think that this basic rule is violated, and therefore this legislation, whatever it is, is against the law. That is why we have asked President László Kövér to submit to the Parliament that we can send this legislation for prior standard control. So we see that the ruling majority has tried to eliminate the unconstitutional situation with an unconstitutional, unconstitutional amendment, but we believe that this has not succeeded, the principle of directness, the basic rule of law is in any event violated, and therefore we will use all constitutional instruments to ensure that the Constitutional Court says that this law is unconstitutional, so you can hear it, you can see that we will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. [[16.50]]
u2014-06-10-171	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, I can only continue what my fellow Member has just said here: this law, as it is, is unconstitutional, contradictory, and it is not elegant at all, and I say that it is repulsive that, four months before the municipal elections, you are once again trying to get everyone here to accept an election fraud that cements you in the capital. They wish to do the same thing as in the parliamentary elections, where they lost 600 thousand votes compared to 2010, yet they can sit in here by two thirds at the moment. The same is the case now, they want to keep the majority of them in the capital, because they might not be able to survive otherwise. To the wrong law, no matter what amendments are tabled, it is not even possible to make amends to a bad law. That's what happens in this case. There are several things in the original proposed amendment that have not yet been met. Brutally distorting me for Fidesz is one thing. The other is that you are completely ignoring it - the Constitutional Court has said so - that it is necessary to strive as much as possible to ensure that the votes, the votes of the voters, are equally weighted. These aren't present. And the other is a whole new thing. You will issue two mandates with one vote, as voters will vote for the mayor, the mayor will be elected directly, and then this mayor will also receive a metropolitan assembly mandate and become a member of the Metropolitan Assembly. Of course, this must be good for you. [[To intervene:]] Let me know when you can, okay? But now he can't, he should have been here, say, in the general debate, and I would have been happy to argue with you. Then this amendment was tabled on the double majority. This is one of those things again, and I do not dare to say why Antal Rogán justifies the double majority, why this double majority is good: because the European Union works that way, because the Lisbon Treaty also provides for it. Indeed, how good it is for us Hungary, for the smaller countries, that the larger countries in the European Union decide what should happen here in the double majority! That's why we're second-rate citizens! And now the same thing happens at the Metropolitan Assembly. Mayors with a higher population number will have a much higher voice than, where appropriate, a mayor with a smaller population number, or even a representative from a list who is not backed by a population, will have almost nothing to say about his vote. And it is also possible that these mayors - not all of them, not all of them, not all the mayors of the 23 major districts, enough even half of Budapest's will - can simply overthrow the Metropolitan Assembly. They simply empty the mayor's rights and duties, and if he decides, let's say, the mayor of the 13-14 major district, that he doesn't go to the Metropolitan Assembly from now on, then the whole thing could go away. And the fact that Kara Ákos here is talking about unity, that we can work together to solve this... Yeah, why haven't they solved it in the last four years? Who ordered you to keep arguing with the mayor and the mayor? Why haven't you solved Budapest's questions? This is not how it should be resolved, not four months before the municipal elections, and not only focusing on getting you back into the majority of the Metropolitan Assembly! [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] If you really want to change the non-good two-tier local government that is in Budapest [[The president's ringing again.]] then we are willing to sit down on this, but not on such terms and not in this way. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-172	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if the government wants to speak in a 10-minute time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Member Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-06-10-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The situation with the current bill - and quite many of us have said this in the general debate - is that when Fidesz saw it, it sees, as a result of parliamentary and European Parliament elections, that it would be unable to obtain a majority in the current system in the General Assembly, it will again use the method that has worked well for it in the last four years: it will adapt the law to its current political interests and allow it to retain the majority in the capital, despite the will of the voters, by virtually law, through electoral fraud. The problem, my fellow Members, is that they have kept the same custom: they are amending the law according to their current political interests and then looking for a basis of principle. That's pretty bad in this case. This is usually done the other way around in democratic countries: when there is a principle, then the law is changed compared to that. What my colleague Ákos Kara said was that there was a debate between Members on the committee, well, honourable Member, that is indeed a difference of opinion between us. We believe that the debate can be productive, that it is not necessarily necessary to go after a leader and shut everyone up, but it is possible to have a professional debate, a meaningful professional debate, even among people on the same side. I consider this to be one of the main elements of the democratic rules of the game. And I sincerely regret that not only in the general debate, but also in today's debate, the governing party does not seem to be willing to engage in a meaningful debate with the opposition, it refuses to fulfil its obligations as a representative, that is to argue against or against the proposal. We sat through the general debate by practically boycotting the debate by the governing parties. We are sitting here in this debate with the opportunity to speak to the rapporteur, but he did not, he would have had the opportunity to speak to the Minister, but he did not. Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, we do think differently about democracy than you do. The original proposal, too, seems to you to have been unconstitutional, since it was largely on these grounds that Mr Gulyás also submitted his proposal, where he tried to dampen this imbalance a little by changing the rules on compensatory list votes and voting. Then they saw that this was still not the real thing, so they brought in a second amendment, which would introduce a dual voting institution in the City Council. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there are a lot of problems with this, except for the general problems that have been said so far about the proposal. One is that he will be a representative of the Metropolitan Assembly with three status: there will be the great mayors who have a strong influence; then there will be the mayors "running" whose votes will be half the mayors of the large districts, or even less; and in addition, there will be, let me put it this way, the representatives from the nine compensatory lists who will be able to take part in half of the votes, because he does not have a percentage vote. And what is most interesting about this round is that the mayor will be the mayor, who has the greatest legitimacy in this system, because he will be the only representative of the Metropolitan Assembly to whom all Budapest residents could vote, who could win his vote with the will of every citizen in Budapest, or at least by the will of most, who must represent all Budapest citizens - and in comparison, fellow Members, he will have the least right to vote in the Budapest Assembly. Because 33 will have one vote, but for example, even if two million people choose him, he has no voting rights at the percentage vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: is this a thoughtful proposal? This proposal is described by what I have said: an unthinkable, unjust proposal, drawn up and shaped according to current political interests. Ladies and gentlemen, One more point, and perhaps Minister knows it better than anyone in this House. There is no such thing as a little unconstitutional or very unconstitutional. If something is unconstitutional due to disproportionateness, it will be unconstitutional in a less disproportionate way. It's either that or it's not. So if you thought it was the original proposal, then this amended proposal is likely to be the same. We, as my fellow Member said, will do everything in our power to ensure that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.00]]
u2014-06-10-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2014-06-10-175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would be very brief at the beginning, and I saw that there was a keen interest from the government side at last to comment on this debate. The fact is that when there was a general debate, you did not participate in this debate, even though there were very exciting arguments here from the opposition side. So much so that my fellow Member Sallai, who was even lost in Budapest, even he felt it was good to be connected to this debate in case he could provoke the Fidesz Members to debate. That didn't happen. I, on the other hand, would like to know why, for example, Congressman Tilki will press the yes button. So I look forward to your arguments as to how they can defend this proposal after what the opposition representatives have already said here. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Dezső Szigáló, MSZP.
u2014-06-10-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, More and more, it seems that there was a transparent, understandable law in Budapest, which was adopted by the large majority, governing the elections. I am saying that there was, because the bill tabled would like to make a significant change. What I don't understand is what was wrong with the previous law, and there's a lot of people who don't understand it. Then, after a little thought, one realizes that the whole of this law was its fault, and it had to be changed because the current majority of the governor seems not to be able to secure this majority in the coming period, and therefore thought that legislation should then be changed so that less is worth more. This proposal was made in the form of a legislative amendment to make less worth more. Then, after it was noticeable that there were very serious disproportions and this position could not be defended, they then tried to improve it in some way with the well-known Golyás multiplying number, and then submitted new measures and new amendments to the bill they had created themselves. I think, after all this or despite all this, the bill remains constitutionally inviolable. I would like to add a little new color to this debate. I asked the voters. They've never been mentioned before, what they think of this law. I showed you this law, the voters could interpret it themselves, and then we talked about it. The general opinion was that it was incomprehensible, incomprehensible. After much preparation, they understood what this was all about, but it became clear to them what this whole proposal was all about. This is all about what I mentioned earlier, about the attempt to maintain the reign of the current majority in the coming period by such legal means. And finally, I'm not right, but I have a bad feeling that this totally inoperative system will be maintained or modified depending on who wins these elections. If the opposition wins, it must operate accordingly. It's out of order. In addition to the arguments listed, a number of others could be listed. I'd like to ask which one of you would be the deputy mayor or deputy mayor. From the mayors who didn't get the confidence in their own district? And that's why they have such deep legitimacy that they can be deputy mayor, because voters didn't think they were qualified to be mayors. Or is the other one such as that not a small number of agendas to be discussed in the committees, because there will be no committees, because I do not see how committees can be held, all of which will be before this assembly? This is an unsolvable problem. So one of them might be that if those currently in opposition were to win this election, they would have to operate in these circumstances, and that is impossible. If, by some miracle, those in the current government position were to win this election, then, I fear, this House will once again negotiate this amendment and create new rules for the capital to function. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-10-178	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs István Hegedűs, Mrs Jobbik. [[Defiance.]] Mrs. Loránt Violin, I'm sorry.
u2014-06-10-179	Suddenly I didn't know who it was. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-06-10-180	I'm sorry.
u2014-06-10-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to comment on points 14 and 15 in the course of the debate, but let me have a few thoughts in advance, just because I could not take part in the general debate, and a number of thoughts came up here from my fellow Members on the bill as a whole. I think that this bill was actually necessary because Fidesz is under duress. Analyzing the results of the last elections, it became clear to him that he would lose most of it in Budapest if he did not immediately touch the municipal law or the electoral law. This proposal, in fact, shows the weakness of Fidesz in front of us, so let us make this clear. Yes, that's your weakness. And when our fellow Member Kara says here, in response to the opposition criticism, that it is timely to consider the municipal electoral system before the municipal elections, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipal law itself is 2011. So it was not so long ago that, after a long trial, the House first discussed the concept, then the bill itself, and at the end of 2011, it adopted the new municipal law, which created a whole new system in Hungary. So the House had time to come up with a new proposal. The fact that this was presented so suddenly is clearly the need for action that Fidesz's weakness represents. As regards points 14 and 15, our view is that you want to introduce the principle of a double majority in the European Council now and then you want to test it in real terms, we believe that it is a life-threatening idea and a question. I strongly warn you that this system is being implemented here, because it is very feared that it will render the Capital Assembly inoperable. And imagine, by means of a distorted, strange fintor of fate, that you will raise with this system a kingmaker position, let us say, a socialist mayor who, in recent years, has sat on the bench of the defendants for a long time and was even sentenced to imprisonment, but according to the Curia's acquittal, it is now possible that he will be entitled to sit in the mayor's office, because he may be elected by the district. And since he has such a large population, his vote or his veto may, if necessary, be decisive on a municipal assembly issue. I think that perhaps this example makes it quite clear to us how unacceptable this extremely disproportionate system is. As far as point 15 is concerned, which is a new element compared to the submission of the bill, our view is that you included in the municipal law the system that virtually a person with normal existentiality in a small settlement does not think of going to mayor or possibly being nominated as mayor, and now, with this very crappy solution, it cannot be corrected. What is currently included in the municipal law and will take effect after the 2014 elections is a very bad solution to complement this crappy solution. Just because what is described in the explanatory statement is that in the case of settlements under 1500 people, one mayor's office does not involve such a strain, it is simply nonsense. That's not true. Anyone who's ever seen a small town mayor knows exactly that's a 0-24-hour service. So this justification that you put into it is completely pointless and completely out of touch with reality. Our fellow Members will make further comments. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-182	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, Member, LMP. [[17.10]]
u2014-06-10-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The proposals put forward by Gergely Gulyás have, of course, taken into account opposition criticisms of proportionality, but they have not changed a bit of the anti-law situation. In the general debate, we said that this proposal is a fundamental violation of the law on two sides. On the one hand, it violates the principle of directness and, on the other hand, it violates the principle of equality of mandate resulting from the equality of suffrage. Due to the breach of the principle of directness, no amendments have been tabled or any amendments have been supported by the majority. The principle of directness is violated when the ballot paper asks, " Do you want to elect X.Y. as mayor? ' And then it turns out that he's going to be a congressman in the capital. This is what I said at the Legislative Commission meeting that it would have been simpler, more open, more straightforward if they had simply taken themselves and eliminated the City Council. In this case, it is a municipal association to which it can be delegated. As long as the Metropolitan Municipality is a self-government, it is not possible to delegate representatives by violating the principle of directness. Two: the principle of proportionality and equality of mandates remain violated. Gergely Gulyás tried to alleviate this on two sides, on the one hand at the compensation list, but there during the election procedure, and on the other hand with this so-called double majority principle, which is nonsense, I think that if a wrong solution is applied elsewhere, Hungary may not have to take over. The fact is that from now on, after the representatives from the compensatory list and the mayor do not receive this corrective or excess or proportionate solution during the vote, the mayor is not at all, and the compensatory representatives during the election, therefore a new imbalance has arisen, a new inequality between the mayors and the listed representatives and the mayor. The proposal is a double violation of the law, and otherwise it will render Budapest completely inoperable. What the two-thirds majority should have solved is the elimination of two levels of self-government, a new, functional structure in Budapest. It should have been done in the last four years. Currently, in Budapest, neither the social services system, education, youth services, public area supervision or urban planning can be managed in a uniform way, nor can they be treated in the same way from now on. Budapest and the mayor are held by 23 small kings, 23 mayors.
u2014-06-10-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. More people want to speak for two minutes. I would like to inform my fellow Members that there is no possibility of two-minute speeches in the debate on the Commission reports and the summarised amendment proposal. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, in the remaining three-minute frame.
u2014-06-10-185	Thank you, Mr. President. I will be very brief in order to give my colleague Szilágyi more time. The proposal to eliminate the imbalances further increases the disproportion. I said at the committee meeting that they would like to compensate for apples with pears, because the fact that 23 mayors will be directly members of the Metropolitan Assembly tries to compensate for the size of the districts so that in the case of the remaining nine, i.e. a lot fewer, in the districts in which several voters live, the votes cast on the candidates for mayor are several times more. That could be six to seven times the difference. This means that the vote of a voter voting in a large district is worth 6-7 times the smallest districts, and I said that apple and pear, a distorted, unpredictable, diseased system was created here in Parliament, and if this is accepted, we can talk about Gulyás-democracy after Goulash-communism. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-10-186	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-06-10-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was waiting for the button push of Congressman Tilki and his new friend, but we didn't get it, even though I wanted to know what they were saying. We would also be open to a thoughtful transformation of the two-level local government in Budapest, but this law is not. It's nothing more than the law in Fidesz's mathematical sorcerer's kitchen that you can make the most of a tie in the capital. This law is not for the development of Budapest, as we can hear here with very beautiful words, but simply serves the one slogan that you have very impressively observed over the past five years, the " Fidesz! " slogan. If Fidesz makes this law, because you will adopt it, the opposition will not support it, so the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not support this law and pass through Parliament, then the Constitutional Court, in our opinion, must destroy it, according to its previous decisions on the concept of mandate and the disproportion of the constituency. If this is not the case, then a system will be created in Budapest, as I said, where Fidesz will be the majority even in a close draw. In order to translate this into the language of the numbers, the parliamentary elections are based on the old system, and the composition of the Metropolitan Assembly would appear to be 13 members of the Fidesz, 13 members of the left, 4 members of the right and 3 members of the LMP. Now, at the same rate, we're going to base the parliamentary elections on 18 fidesz, 12 left-handers, and a right-hander, an LMP. There is nothing else for you to do with this law, which is an extra foam on the cake from your point of view, so that you know very well that Jobbik will continue to pose a threat to you in the next election, which is why you are trying to force Jobbik out of politics in Budapest. This is primarily the law against Jobbik, the less we can make our voices heard in Budapest, the less we can make our voices heard against the provisions that you have made in Budapest in the last four years, nothing has changed. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-10-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2014-06-10-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In order to look at the positive and funny side of all this, the Secretary of State Bence Rétvári gave the Lánchíd Rádió and the Hungarian Nation a statement that there is no need to address this issue because the opposition has no professional arguments. This is what I saw online this morning. I've had the pleasure of sitting through this last week, and I've heard nothing but professional arguments, and compared to that, it's a very funny statement, which is that nothing like this has been said. However, what Mrs Loránt Hegedűs said, I would also like to draw attention to the problem, with the same force, when they read the municipal law, I would like to see all of them sensitive to the problems that are outside the capital. István Ikotity and my fellow Member made a legislative amendment proposal of the municipal law last week, which is in the process of being included in the series of subjects, precisely so that the legislation does not discourage the mayors of small towns from starting. I ask you to support it with such enthusiasm soon. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-190	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Szabolcs Szabó, an independent Member.
u2014-06-10-191	[[He's trying to pin his microphone.]] I can't do the pinching right now, so I'm sorry, I've got it in my hand. Mr President, Congresswoman, gentlemen! I see that the legal arguments do not have much effect on the Fidesz Members, so allow me to make a specific professional argument as a geographer for land and settlement development. The fact is, if the 23 district lobbys are exposed to the capital city, there will never be a single urban development concept in this city. The founders of the Metropolitan Public Works Council and those involved in this work would turn in their graves, and I think they will if this law is passed. It simply will not be possible to implement the urban restructurings that the capital needs. So I'm asking you on behalf of the Joint-PM not to vote for this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-06-10-193	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I can do one thing for the remaining 30 seconds, so that the Fidesz plays the same tactics, the same game as it did for four years. He took advantage of the fact that the opposition was running out of time, and the ruling parties did not use one second of their time frame. Dear Minister, You could catalyze something about that. It's been played for four years, it's what they're doing right now, they're just saying opinions in the closet, and they can't react to it anymore. I don't think that's a good attitude for you. Thank you very much. [[17.20]]
u2014-06-10-194	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Shame!]] Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will ask if anyone on the part of the authors wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate within the remaining timeframe. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The debate is coming! Noise, interruptions. Gyula Vantara: Calm down! Relax.]]
u2014-06-10-195	Thank you very much for the floor. The amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee and the amendment tabled by the Judicial Committee brings together four substantive amendments to the Act. On the one hand, it allows, like the parliamentary election, for a municipal election, a voter to propose more candidates per type of nomination. In addition, the amendment also talks about the number of recommendations for settlements with a population of more than 10 thousand, the amendment also talks about what my fellow Members here refer to as a multiplier linked to the name of Gergely Gulyás, and in the Budapest Assembly about the double majority in terms of voting. So that's what it's all about. The television viewers who watched the debate... - that is what the debate should have been about, unfortunately that was not what it was about, but my fellow opposition Members tried to hold the general debate again. The authors also supported the opposition proposal for a plural recommendation. We think that... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Gábor Fodor! The founder of Fidesz, let's name it. Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] - and in the elections to the European Parliament, a voter may propose more candidates, so it is also necessary to introduce this in the local elections. It is also necessary to standardise the number of recommendations in settlements of more than 10,000 people, and what my fellow Member Gulyás suggested before the Legislative Committee was to multiply them by the number of inhabitants of settlements in the larger, double majority and compensation. And I do not understand the criticism of the double majority on the part of my fellow Members, because on the one hand they criticized the fact that... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We don't understand either. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You don't understand anything else.]] - I don't understand your criticism. [[Sándor Burány: Then don't vote. The president's ringing the bell.]] They object that in one place, with so many votes, and in the other place so many votes can be obtained as mayors in the Metropolitan Assembly, at the same time when we require that the majority of the residents of Budapest should otherwise be in proportion to their population, and they object to this. I'll tell you honestly, it's true, so for reasons like this, when we do this, it's not good to do that, it's not good, they can't actually argue that. I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This agenda is closed. On a point of order, Mr András Schiffer asked to speak, and he has a one-minute window.
u2014-06-10-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The fact is that at the item that has just been closed, Mr Vas gave the floor to our fellow Member, Imre Vas, as rapporteur, as a closing point, compared to this, our fellow Member Imre Vas did not hold a final debate at all. The text was written in advance, so there is no way that it reacted to what was in the debate. [[Noise, clarity. Dr. Répássy Róbert: Freedom of speech! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I've managed to read it! Big deal!]] On the other hand, he held a debate starter. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Next time you will present your speech!]] I am asking the President to allow the opposition to respond to the words of Imre Vas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-198	Thank you very much. You know very well that the house rules don't give me the opportunity to do that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not even what he did.]] Dear Parliament, According to the agreed agenda, decisions will begin at 6:20 p.m. Until then, I'm going to take a break. (Sunning: 17.25 - 18.30 p.m.) President: István Jakab Note: Attila Móring József and Erzsébet Schmuck)
u2014-06-10-199	Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. My fellow Members, please place your cards in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for a replacement of committee members. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/242. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this he initiates the National Assembly to the Cultural Committee, instead of László Szászfalvi, to elect Rózsa Hoffmann as vice-president of the Committee, instead of Miklós Seszták, János Latorcai, to the Committee on Foreign Affairs instead of Mátyás Firtl, as a member of the Committee. I'm asking you if you'll accept the personal proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 183 votes in favour, not votes and abstentions, unanimously. I wish the elected members of the committee and their officials good luck with their work. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. Act 3, Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors and Act XXXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure a decision on a comprehensive proposal for an amendment to the bill amending the Act and a final vote. Antal Rogán and other Members' own motion T/146. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/146/16. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/146/17. Available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/146/20. You can also get to know me on the website. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to Rule 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Jobbik and LMP proposed to maintain certain amendments which were not included in the draft amendment. These initiatives are T/146/18. and Nos 19 are available on the network. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present in order to maintain certain amendments. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/146/11/1. In amendments Nos 1 and 2 the proposal was proposed by György Szilágyi and Csaba Gyüre. and Articles 5 to 25 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It is proposed that the provisions of this Article should be deleted. The adoption of the proposal excludes amendments T/146/7, 8 and 10. In view of the intention to leave, a simple majority is sufficient. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, T/146/11/1. Amendment Nos 2 and 2. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 2 abstentions. T/146/8/2. In amendments Nos 2 and 3, András Schiffer referred to in Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. § 1 and Art. Initiates the amendment of Section 5 of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/146/8/2. Amendment Nos 2 and 3. Now, please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 132 votes against and 24 abstentions. The T/146/7. In amendment No.8 andrás Schiffer is amended as follows: Article 17 of the Law on the Election of Municipal Representatives and Mayors § 4 of the Act initiates the amendment of paragraph 4. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/146/7. Amendment No 1. Now, please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 25 abstentions. The T/146/10. In Amendment No 17 Schiffer, Mr András was appointed as rapporteur for amendment No 17. Article 2 of the Procedural Act. The Committee recommends that paragraph 4 of Section 4 be deleted. In view of the abandonment, a simple majority is sufficient to maintain. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the LMP, T/146/10. Amendment No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 132 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, As Parliament has not maintained any of the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. According to the opinion of the Legislative Committee, a qualified majority decision is required for the adoption of all points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/146/16. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 133 votes to 49, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. On the basis of the fundamentality clause under the proposed summary amendment, which has just been adopted, the adoption of the bill as a whole requires a qualified majority decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the bill is accepted by T/146/20. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 133 votes in favour, 53 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the proposal for a decision on the establishment of the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union. A separate motion by György Balla and other Members H/131. You can access it on the website. A proposal for amendment and a report by the Commission may not be submitted in accordance with the derogation from the adopted house rule, and Parliament shall decide on the proposal without debate. So I ask you if you will accept the initiative to form the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union, H/131. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the resolution proposal by 185 votes in favour, not without vote and abstention. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Hungarian National Group of the Interparlamental Union has been formed. (Sunning: 18.40-18.49) President: István Jakab Note: Attila Móring József and Erzsébet Schmuck)
u2014-06-10-200	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to remain here to take their seats. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. [[18.50]] The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/11. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr President Novak in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, the reduction of political crime continues to wait for you, so the Jobbik faction has already presented a package of laws aimed at combating political crime on the first working day of the Parliament's inaugural session. Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, we have tabled, among other things, a bill on the compulsory assessment of the growth of Members of Parliament, and not only the Members of Parliament, but all politicians of the last 24 years, not only as a Member of Parliament, but also as a member of the Government and as Secretary of State, we believe that it is necessary that the National Tax and Customs Office carry out an automatic assessment of the compulsory increase of all of them. Obviously, there have been many charges against the NAV that have been used for party policy purposes, which would prove that it can overcome, because if we look at the matter of either Gábor Simon or Antal Rogán's declaration of assets or look at the scandals of property declarations marked by their name, we can see that this kind of declaration of assets does not provide sufficient protection against abuse. There is a series of doubts about the wealth of some political circles, and it has become clear that the current system does not provide any guarantees against this extremely harmful phenomenon, so radical reform of the system is needed. We have already proposed, in the previous term, on the Simon case - unfortunately in vain - that there should be a specific criminal penalty for making a false declaration of assets. We are now trying to make a proposal that, in view of the Rogán case and its faction leader, it is clearly neither expected nor realistic to include such an item in a series, but that at least one propertyisation investigation should be carried out for politicians in the last 24 years. I mean, that was just the tip of the iceberg that we found out about the Simon case. If, therefore, it is invested in some energy - even in money on the part of the NAV - up to hundreds, thousands of such investigations, it will be well paid off. If we look at the fact that if only a few of these cases have been brought to light, which has so far been seen as the tip of the iceberg, then the budget can generate extremely serious revenue, not to mention that corruption is often just one side of what is being saved from the country in different Vienna and other bank accounts, or through offshore companies, but the other half is much more damage to the national economy than we have seen in the case of Simon, let us say, through Auchan, what corruption funds migrate to make decisions that cause serious damage to the national economy: lower prices, in order to create a regulatory environment that multinational companies can, unfortunately, achieve with bribes, with influential political leaders. So if we want to put an end to this, then we can reveal this by looking at the propertyisation test, even if it was legally stolen - because it is so - what else could they have obtained besides money. The reason I'm talking about legitimately stolen money is because political job accumulation as a legal form of political crime, I think, could have worked here until this year, until Jobbik's appearance and the impact of the mass social outrage that Jobbik generated. After all, we have set a good example in terms of job accumulation in politics, we have lived with self-limitation, and we have repeatedly submitted our proposals on this issue, which were voted out at first, as we are expected to do in the form of paper, by the plenary session tomorrow, and we voted down by the competent commission two weeks ago, but remember, they have done the same on the issue of political accumulation as in the case of the most widespread, legitimized form of political crime, but Jobbik's success is that today it has been reduced, and today we have succeeded in legislating what only we have set a good example of so far, and every other party has had an example of this as its representative, let us say, mayor. Jobbik would therefore like to put an end to this, and I would ask you to consider the whole package that has been swept down so far - for example, our proposal to abolish immunity - and to add a new law to the obligation to declare the possible dual or even multiple citizenship of Members of Parliament, because unfortunately this seems to be necessary. All the more so, I ask you to consider this, because, unfortunately, within the 30 days prescribed by the House Rules, the competent Judicial Committee - in breach of house rules - did not even put it on its agenda, so it did not even reject it, so we cannot even appeal to the plenary session now as an appeal to our request for inclusion in the series of items. I therefore ask you to consider, in the debate on this proposal, our entire package of laws against political crime. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-202	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives and in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2014-06-10-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In fact, I could say that Jobbik is plagiarizing, because the bill on political wealth growth was actually tabled on the first working day. [[Dóra Dúró: You plagiarize!]] We're a week later. The only thing is that LMP announced, almost at the hour of the Simon scandal's explosion, that the solution would be to have Parliament impose regular and compulsory propertyisation investigations on political elite members. The thing is, it doesn't matter if there's a plagiarism or not. I think that the proposal itself deserves at least to be discussed by the National Assembly, because everyone in this country is sick of having a Simon case, find 200 million forints in a bank account in Vienna, it will be a highly decorated subject of an election campaign, but no one can guarantee that the next week, at the end of a campaign or in a next campaign, other party politicians will not be exposed to interesting wealth gains, increases in square meters, bank account gain. For this reason, the solution would be to have a regular, mandatory asset management investigation against all members of the political elite, not only against Members such as mayors and leaders of publicly owned companies. [[Németh Szilárd István: Against all Members.]] That's right, against all the congressmen. It may be funny for Szilárd Németh, but today people are sick of the fact that relatively young politicians, after a few years, spent searching for public money, are gaining fabulous wealth. People are right to wonder how some politicians, after 10 to 20 years, can afford a lot of cartoons, wonderful villas, how they pay for these kinds of hunts and foreign, far-off landscapes - I think offshore tomatoes - long, several weeks' vacations. This is something that people want to know for a reason, and perhaps one day we will find out how we can pump billions of forints out of this country in offshore tomatoes every year. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Volner, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the link between public confidence in society and its trust in political leadership and tax discipline. If society believes that politicians who may have entered the Parliament from public confidence and, where appropriate, are in a decision-making position, abuse the public confidence conferred on them and harm society by committing this abuse, or by imposing public procurements in such a way as to be favourable to a given political or economic actor, then it is possible, in practical terms, that society will grant exemptions to different tax-discipliners, to those who deliberately avoid taxation, because if the big ones can, why not the small ones. That's what public opinion says. [[19.00]] This proposal, drawn up by my fellow Member, President Novák, with Gábor Vona, is capable of helping to restore this public confidence, since voters can clearly see, when carrying out propertyisation investigations, how much wealth a given politician has acquired during his or her representativeship and whether there is a link between his or her representative's activities, his or her political activity and his or her wealth. During the past period, several people linked to different parties have been suspected of illegally acquiring their assets, in which case it will obviously help to restore public confidence if we can answer these questions, even with the help of these propertyisation investigations, to hold them accountable [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the owners of illegal wealth. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-206	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr László Vigh, Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, as Congressman Novak said, the Judicial Committee rejected this proposal. I think that the proposal is unclear, it is unclear, because it is indicated that it may not be enough to look at the Member, it may be good to look at his family member, his wife, and other relatives. We need to know how far we can go. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's a long way to go. By the way, I'm telling the truth about the fact that we really need to monitor everyone's wealth growth, whether it's the mayor, faction leader, secretary of state or minister, but I think there might be a normal way to do that. I think it's not a bad way to make a list of wealth growth every year, it's accessible to everyone, it's on the Internet, and I think people see whether that man really has that kind of wealth or not. I think that your proposal is not bad; it is not bad, but it needs clarification, we need to look at the circles to see how far we can get in this, how many circles to look at, and then, if a proposal comes that is transparent, clear, I think it will be possible to support it later. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Szabó Szabolcs has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-209	Mr President, Dear House, We consider this bill to be technically eligible by the Joint-PM, and I am very pleased that Fidesz also considers it largely eligible, with an amendment motion, I believe that this problem can be addressed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr President Novak if he wishes to respond within a two-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-06-10-211	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. We stand with this question a little as with the issue of agent lists, apparently everyone supports it, but nothing ever happens on this issue, because somehow everyone ends up tripping it. I don't think we're gonna have a fight with the LMP about who came up with this first. However, I do not accuse the LMP of plagiarism, despite the fact that, according to their own declaration, this proposal was submitted a week later, since the Simon case triggered the will, the social voice of everyone, that, yes, here the propertyisation investigations must be carried out in bulk and automatically, as a matter of subjective right, by the Members of Parliament. However, it is incomprehensible that we have heard from László Vigh now that this proposal is good, but it should be made clear to the people to whom this applies. This is so clear from our proposal that if you had read only your address, it would have been clear to you. What does the proposal say? " The compulsory assessment of the growth of Members of Parliament, members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. " This is a little longer under 1. I'm sure you'll support it tomorrow. If you do not agree with this round, this is what the amending proposal is about - it is worth studying the house rules - and then an amendment can be tabled to prevent it from touching Members of Parliament, but it is possible to expand it, and it is possible to bid here with many people from the heads of different state bodies. I think that if, first of all, we say that it has been more than a hundred times two weeks, and that no order has been made, despite Viktor Orbán's great promise, then we start to get a clean bill of health, the fish reeks of its head, then the Hungarian Parliament will get credit, and then it will be able to go through this next cycle with credibility, if we start with ourselves. So I think it should be the first time here in Parliament, and that politicians of the last 24 years should be accounted for in the first round. This proposal can be further refined, but the proposal is here, the question is whether this proposal will be included in a series of subjects, in a sort of inventory in the course of tomorrow's day. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-212	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/12, which initiated the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who, on behalf of the national representatives, would like to speak within a five-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group.
u2014-06-10-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The amendment of the basic law that we have tabled and to which our fellow Member Attila Mesterházy joined on behalf of the Socialist Party is a very small amendment, it is merely about re-establishing the institution of the government programme in the Fundamental Law. For twenty years, the Hungarian Constitution has included the institution of the government programme, as it has at least formally given citizens the opportunity, through their elected representatives, to make the government accountable and accountable. For the LMP, of course, the existence of the institution of the government programme alone was not a redemption, as no one was relieved by the fact that there was a government programme in the autumn of 2006, for example, when it was discovered that Parliament had voted for a government programme, that it had voted at the same time on the person of the Prime Minister, and then this Prime Minister himself, who had won his mandate by adopting the government programme, said that he would take action not only against the promises announced in the elections, but also against the government programme voted on in the House. What happened in the autumn of 2006 does not mean that the institution of the government programme should be abolished from now on. Obviously, it is much more convenient for Fidesz not to have a government programme, and it is constantly, cynically, to point out to the opposition representatives that on 6 April this, and that, too, was voted by the people, while you know precisely that this is a lousy lie. You didn't have an election programme, you didn't have a single debate with the opposition, because you had nothing to argue about, you didn't have any agenda, you just said we were going on. Of course, the fact that we will continue, and that, where appropriate, they will escape things that have not had the background, dear Congressman Vigh, in the last term, is an obvious contradiction. So if you were to play the idea of taking the fidesz promise seriously for a moment to continue, then a lot of laws in the last two weeks wouldn't be here, because if we really think that Fidesz's program is about continuing, then why did you vote a few minutes ago, say, for the subversive of the metropolitan self-government system from the bottom? If we continue, you voted once in 2010 on the transformation of the municipal electoral system, you voted on a electoral law, then the continuing promise is contrary to the fact that you are now subverting a system that you have already voted for and have adopted. But it is obvious that Fidesz cynicism, of course, knows no bounds, and they are able to present a further challenge of impertinence, which, by the way, a living person does not think very much about, yet we are doing an experiment. The Government programme, my dear Congressman Vigh, certainly gives us the opportunity to say that this has been done or not done in 2018 when he makes his way back to his constituency. Of course, the LMP would like to go further than that, in fact, what we would consider good - learning from the 2006 case - is that if a government clearly goes against the approved government programme, this should have the consequences of constitutional law. The crisis that shocked Hungary in the autumn of 2006 would not be avoided by the absence of a government programme. [[19.10]] So the lesson for Fidesz in the fall 2006 crisis is not to say anything, not to announce a programme, and then we cannot be caught in a lie. It's called cynicism. On the other hand, an honest government, an honest constitutional majority, would not only provide that there should be a government programme that we propose to my fellow Member Mesterházy, but would also agree that, if the government, the majority of the government, goes against the rules of the government programme, there should have consequences, if appropriate, lead to the dissolution of Parliament or the termination of the government's mandate. So far, our proposal does not go away, but if you wanted to draw the conclusions of the fall 2006 crisis fairly, you would not have moved in the constitutional process to end the institution of the government programme itself, but would actually strengthen the institution of the government programme, and would allow it not simply to be politically accountable to the current government, the Prime Minister or the majority in the government, but, where appropriate, to have consequences for the lie. After Autumn 2006 people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Those who later voted for you would expect that. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-214	Dear Parliament, Mr Dóra Dúró, Member of the Jobbik Group, has spoken. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-215	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This proposal is not only about the government programme, I think, at least its importance goes far beyond the fact that there is a government programme now or there is no government programme. In itself, I think it is a huge shame if it is not natural for a political party, which, moreover, comes out as a winner in the elections and has a two-thirds majority behind it in Parliament, that a government programme must obviously be set up and submitted to Parliament. It is simply a matter of honouring the electorate so much that they present clear and clear, accessible government programmes, plans and visions in writing. But it was not expected that there would be a government program either, although four years ago they managed to bring together a document containing platitudes, where there were some findings about as good as hot soup. But even in this election campaign they didn't create an election programme, only the Prime Minister made a cynical statement, they didn't usually participate in the debates, and they also failed the opposition representatives and candidates, but their own voters, because it is important for voters to be able to make a clear choice between the parties' programmes and to make a responsible decision in an election, to know which party it is based on the programmes that they can identify with their offer and vision of the future. They didn't do that in the election program, but now they're in government and they're not opening up a government program. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] before the National Assembly. I think it is shameful for Hungary to talk about this at all. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-216	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Demeter, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-217	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the following in relation to the amendment of the fundamental law of the opposition. Of course, this is about the debate that I believe we have had several times over the last few weeks. First of all, the Prime Minister has repeatedly explained that we will continue [[Dr. András Schiffer: What? What? What?]] the work we've started. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Trafic? Robbery? What?]] So I must grieve my fellow opposition Members who were expecting us to back down. In addition, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán explained precisely last Friday, when his government was established, that we need elites, but we do not have an elitist government. Of course, I know that this is a particularly incomprehensible sentence or thought for the socialists. [[Dr. András Schiffer: They're not even here!]] As the Prime Minister said, it will be harder for members of the government than it was during the previous term. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Because they continue!]] The bar is higher. They need heavy-duty and high-tenacity people who can bear weight and responsibility, approach their task with humility, and stick to their goals. The members of the third Orbán government outlined their ideas before the committees when they heard the candidates for ministers, and the committees supported what was said at the hearing. Finally, I would like to record what I ask you to always bear in mind that the Hungarian Prime Minister does not have a government president, so the government does not have a president, but the Prime Minister has a government. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Whoa, whoa! Forebod Novak, General Leader! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I mean, the Prime Minister has a government. [[Let's call him a commanding general.]] Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-10-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Róbert Sallai Benedek, LMP Group has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-219	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I could use the opportunity to quote my leader's words, but my party would be angry about that, so I have to say what the party represents. In fact, what's incomprehensible is that it's so easy to be a hypocrite, in this case, why it can't be. You could vote for any government program, any government program would go through. Why should we deny the opportunity to write anything at all? Why should Parliament or voters be denied the opportunity to at least know something about what the government will represent? You, Congressman, were just talking about the responsibility on the government's shoulders and the bar to jump on. What kind of bar we don't even know what level it's at? After all, by not having a government programme, we have no idea where the Prime Minister has put this bar, only in a hidden place that he sees or is part of the government, but the electorate or parliament have no idea where this bar stands. The existence of a government program would at least give us a small opportunity to be accountable for what the government is doing. In many, many cases, the government page refers to what the Prime Minister said in various reports. But what I see when I look at it is that there are completely opposite things the government says at different times. Whether we look at the acacia, what it says six years ago, what it says now, whether we look at democracy, what it says 20 years ago, what it says now, we can't start from this. The slogan "going on" can relate to a lot of things, but if there are completely new aspects of governance, then they cannot give you the authority to do whatever you want. They can do that either way, but why can't you at least write it down? Why can't you make it count? Why can't you confront the opposition with what specifically to prepare for? Why do you have to go past the possibility that there's at least a written record of what you want? This opportunity is not necessarily due to the opposition, but I think they belong to Hungary and Hungary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This should be done in order to do so.
u2014-06-10-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that this law should definitely be supported by the pro-government people, because in order to be accountable for their responsibilities, it would be important or important to put in place a programme. It didn't happen, but it's always possible to revise a thing or two. This includes, in this area, the possibility that they might want to amend it. They often refer to the two-thirds majority received in the previous cycle and received it now, in this cycle as well. However, I am very afraid and afraid that the population and voters have been deceived. They fooled him because if we can't and can't get the voter to account for what happened in this cycle, what is the diet they recommended, it will be very difficult for them to tell us that we wanted to do this, put down the script, and how we want to keep these dates and working schedules. The population and voters will not be able to account for what you have done. Therefore, I think that if they want a predictable policy, they will adopt this bill, in order to be able to campaign again in 2018, in addition to saying that we are achieving these goals, we have set these goals for ourselves, and then we think that it is possible to regain the confidence of the voters. But what can be expected when, by the way, not only the programme has not been tabled, but they have not even been able to hold a political debate? Then you could see and sense that you do not want to get into the voters' trust so that they can tell us what they are doing in the next term, these four years. So it is also possible to conclude that many times you are not telling the truth when you speak to the electorate. [[19.20]] So I think that we should not always reach back towards the Hungarian Socialist Party, but should look ahead, and I suggest that everyone do so. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Szabó Szabolcs has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I feel weird listening to your fidesz commentary here. Suddenly I thought of limerick as a genre that it's so short and clever, but at least it has content. We don't have to keep going. A few days ago, Mr Fat said, for example, that we are moving on to a thoughtful and slow legislative process. That's not what we've seen in the last few weeks. So, are we gonna go on or not, or are we gonna go on? The other one. Sorry, Congressman, we were talking about how good it was that the ministers at the committee meeting, for example, told us what they were going to do. I am on the Committee on Culture, Mrs Dóra Dúró can prove that she couldn't even give me the names of the State Secretarys at the hearing. Not to mention that I was the brave first speaker to ask in a long ten minutes, and they quickly voted, "Yeah, you can only ask questions for three minutes, and you measured them with a stopwatch." Excuse me, I don't really know what to say. I would also suggest that you consider this a little more carefully and vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-224	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what he has said. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] I give you the floor, please.
u2014-06-10-225	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the supporting opposition contributions. I would just like to say once again to Congressman Demeter that the Government programme is a guarantee institution. He was a guarantee institution in 1998, he was a guarantee institution. [[László Vigh: 2006.]] It was also a guarantee institution in 2006 and 2010. My colleague László Vigh here yells that in 2006, and indeed, Ference Gyurcsány could have been much more difficult to get political account of - and at least the political accountability was done, I add - if there had not been a government programme. It was a government program, so the MSZP-SZDSZ course could be accounted for politically. Politically, I would like to stress it. However, as far as the government programme is concerned, you claim that Congressman Demeter - I would not go into this whole ministerial hearing story because I have no idea how it came to this - you claim that there is a government programme, and that we are "going on." I told you in my introduction that you do not feel that you are going against the government programme when you vote on measures that conflict with what you have done, say, in the past four years? What does "going on" mean? Are you going to continue with the cynicism and the lying? What are they doing? You're going to continue with the traff, continue with the land robberies, continue with the procurement of public jets? What are they doing? Tell me! [[Zoltán Demeter: The additional tax relief.]] Honourable Congressman, I think it would be a lot clearer to play with open cards. To continue, you felt that there was no need for an election programme, no need for a government program... [[László Vigh intervenes.]] - I ask you, Mr President, to order Mr Vigh to order order; thank you very much - that is simply because you expected that, because of the lack of credibility of some opposition parties and the possible weakness of other opposition parties, you will win an election either way. I would like to indicate that this will not always be the case. It may be possible to win elections by playing at the faults of others for a while, but sooner or later, lying and cynicism will avenge you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-226	Dear Parliament, The chairman shall have the right and responsibility to maintain order when and how. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I can't talk because he's yelling.]] The time frame was also given to the Member above. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2013 CXXII. T/13 initiating an amendment to law. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Agriculture. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who, on behalf of the national representatives, would like to speak within a five-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-227	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The Land Traffic Act has significantly adapted the possibilities for the sale of land and agricultural land, and a number of new provisions entered into force in May of this year. Basically, it is a country whose most important natural resource is agricultural land and can build its economy on something that can sustain jobs in a sustainable way, with renewable resources, produce healthy food and thus create life security for the citizens of the country, this basic resource reserve is one of the most important strategic and security reserves. It is therefore very, very important how the sale of agricultural land and its ownership structure develops in Hungary. At the moment, the estate structure is facing a number of dangers. This property structure should help to ensure the highest possible employment potential in rural areas in Hungary and to ensure that as many rural people as possible have access to the land, maintain jobs, create jobs and produce healthy food with as much value-creating work as possible. At the moment, this property structure is facing three serious risks: the possibility of buying land from foreigners or from the Member States, the large estate structure and the State's use of less just and wise public land resources. Obviously, I cannot deal with the last one, and we have not made a proposal to do so to such a majority of the ruling parties, while in the case of the other two, we have found it justified to amend the current land traffic law so that the objectives set out in its preface, in its preamble, can be better served by the law. At the moment, following the application of civil law principles, it practically maintains the possibility of pre-empting the owner, the neighbouring owner. This creates a land structure where the estate structure is very, very mosaic, and large owners, who not only own themselves, as Minister Fazekas says, have 300 hectares, but also his wife, the first child, the second child and the third child have 300 to 300 hectares, and perhaps even hire something else, obviously have an estate structure, from which the administrative boundaries of each settlement have many possibilities to have ten to 20 hectares of land in every direction. Obviously, a small owner or a starting farmer who wants to start producing healthy food and needs one hectare, two hectares, a foil tent system, 5 hectares, 6 hectares to start farming will be able to buy land under the current legislation, much less likely to buy land than the one who already has a lot of room, because it will have a pre-emptive right; because in a multitude of undivided commons - which we were promised in 2011 that the government would start its liquidation - it already has co-ownership, and therefore it is also a step advantage, and it cannot be suspended, let us say, an undivided land in co-ownership. As a result, such measures do not serve the objective of the legislation to strengthen the central estate, rather to cement the current ownership structure and to develop what we believe is wrong. It is bad because it does not create social justice, it does not create the possibility for those who want to produce land locally, and therefore does not mean the security that the governing party has promised us by amending the legislation. It is true that it creates additional opportunities for the purchase and acquisition of agricultural land for foreigners and Member States, but it does not exhaust all possibilities, which is why we thought that we would put forward amendments in several stages. Some of this partly aimed at further restrictions on the acquisition of foreign ownership, partly transformed the pre-emptive structure, eliminating the tradition and remnants that gave the neighbouring landowners and co-owners the right to pre-empt, but instead highlighted those who do not yet have 50 hectares, and secondly those who do not yet have 100 hectares of land. He pointed out that not only does the legislator check how much land a person has in Hungary, but also how much land he owns anywhere, taking into account this size of land, and, as an additional safety valve, he made a proposal for the creation of the land committees mentioned several times today, which would have provided a quota system to allow a relatively colourful circle of farmers to participate in the management of land transactions. In our view, the proposal clearly serves the objective set by the government in its national rural strategy. It clearly serves the purpose of the legislation's foreword and would indeed provide opportunities for small and medium-sized farmers to buy land. For this reason, although the Committee on Agriculture has not supported it, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the negotiation of the legislation. Thank you very much. [[19.30]]
u2014-06-10-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking who wants to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Fidesz Group.
u2014-06-10-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As Benedek Sallai mentioned, the Committee on Agriculture refused to include the law in the series of articles. We have brought up two reasons for this debate. One is a historical situation. LMP was also a member of the previous Parliament. This bill was open for a year and a half, there was no parliamentary party or even a civil society organisation that could not make a meaningful contribution during this period, and a significant number of opposition motions were included in the final version. The wordings that have now been tabled as a motion have not been discussed at all in the context of the aforementioned debate. But let us now ignore the fact that some of this debate could have already been discussed. However, in substance, there are areas such as the three-year local housing increase to five years old. I would like to mention that it is extremely sensitive to what conditions we can impose and try to impose. Denmark failed the law, which was very favored by them and which was considered worthy by many to follow, because it was a six- or seven-year-old place where housing was demanded, and I do not know exactly. This was one of the reasons why the Germans brought legal proceedings against them, and Denmark failed the land law there. So I don't think there should be any technical interference here. It's a matter of local estate max. We hope that this will be the task of the land committees, because they will see precisely who is free and who is no longer allowed or refused to purchase additional estates on the spot. Land committees would be touched in a very varied way by the proposer. I note that there is much to argue with, this is a sensitive subject in which the European Union has also expressed its position and referred to it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Therefore, we have proposed not to open these issues until the government has resolved the issue of local land committees. [[The president's ringing again.]] and we do not give a clear answer to the parts that the EU has challenged. Then let's see if these motions are admissible. That's why we turned him down. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-10-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech.
u2014-06-10-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members, as we have already said at the committee meeting, we support this proposal. We have a lot of problems with the new earth traffic law, which we have not even hidden under the rules, and some of them are dealt with in the proposal - unfortunately not the most important ones - but it is certainly appropriate to renegotiate this shamefully successful law. Thus, Jobbik will continue to support the inclusion of this proposal in the series. I believe that, in relation to the new earth traffic law, after all this time, it can be said that it has not even fulfilled the promises and expectations that the governing parties expected from this proposal, because even if we look at the three most serious areas, it will be clear to everyone why we should not wait as long as President Font wishes to wait. At least what I have learned from what he has to say is that we should wait for the European Union to initiate infringement proceedings on this law, or to persuade the government to change it even more in the positive direction of the Union. I would certainly not wait for the end of this life-threatening process, and we certainly find this delay to be condemned, because the intention of getting a foreign land in the form of pocket contracts that we had previously known, despite all their earlier promises, has not been abolished. No one will be able to explain to me, a Western Transdanubian Member, if they say it a hundred times in this House, even if they have taken meaningful steps in this direction, because no such steps have been taken. I also find it very depressing that what Minister-designate Lazarus has already admitted at the committee meeting is that the share of agricultural subsidies in Hungary is extremely devastating, i.e. the poor share of small and medium-sized economies receiving these EU funds. And your oligarchs have not been resolved and will continue. For all these reasons, Jobbik can therefore support this proposal and we hope that this debate will allow for more serious amendments. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-232	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Harangozó has spoken, MSZP. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The Socialist Party also supports the possibility of amending the land law, and that is why we should consider this LMP proposal. The amendment of the Land Traffic Act is also necessary because it does not support, but makes Hungarian farmers impossible, devalues the land ownership of nearly 2 million people, endangers their assets, and endangers 120 thousand existing jobs in the way it was adopted. By the way, we have said this continuously in previous debates. For the time being, the land committees influenced by the Chamber of Agriculture, which is politically dependent on Fidesz, provide only the opportunity to serve the political principle-friends, and we therefore also support the involvement of the members of the Committee and the functioning of the Land Committees. That is why we agree with the subject series of amendments to the land law. However, what the LMP proposes, I think, in many cases, is excessive. The problem is not to put proposals on the table to help as many people as possible to produce good quality food locally, but to destroy the structure that can provide work and livelihoods for 120 thousand people today overnight. If we were to take the path proposed by the LMP to create 50 hectares of estates in Hungary, it would mean that 100,000 such 50 hectares of estates could be created, which would not create more than the maximum number of jobs that we have today. We therefore have a detailed discussion with the proposal. Of course, we will make our own changes when the time comes. But, as I said, we are in favour of bringing this proposal before this House. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that, according to the house rules, one speech per faction is possible within a two-minute time frame, and with the exception of the independents, all groups have already expressed their views. [[Dr. András Schiffer: The LMP is not, only the author!]] The LMP didn't, but they didn't show up. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes, you can.]] I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer as rapporteur. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No! No! Well, the button's pressed.]] Mr Schiffer, of course, you have the floor, but only on the basis of previous practice, when you wished to reply, you asked for a word in a normal time frame. The floor is yours, of course. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out that today, too, it has been the practice of speaking among the groups on the part of the national group; we would just like to exercise this right if Mr President would allow us to do so. I would like to respond briefly to what Congressman Bellozó has said. After what the last 25 years have created in the Hungarian countryside, after the great estate structure has evolved after the change of regime, there is nothing else to do but, as you said, to crush this structure. That is what we have proposed in the debate on the Land Robbery Act. The estate policy based on large farms must be put to an end, not with small steps and decisive steps. This proposal is aimed at this. It is necessary to put an end to the fact that barons and oligarchs of different colours dominate the Hungarian countryside. It does not threaten 120,000 jobs, but has led to the destruction of hundreds of thousands of people by the construction of this estate structure. What Congressman Font said here, on the other hand, I'm quite surprised. You are here bragging about what freedom fighters are and what battles you are taking with the European Union. Come on, now's your chance. Don't be afraid of how Denmark walked, you have to get involved in this story! Conflicts must be taken on when it happens not to be about your oligarchs, but about the interests of the Hungarian people. [[19.40]] This proposal, you understand, President Font, is aimed at ensuring that your oligarchs cannot rob without a neck and aim to prevent foreign speculators from buying land. Indeed, LMP was the only party to have achieved results on the European scene, because we, the European Green Party, agreed to remove land from the free movement of capital, because this would be the real solution. On the other hand, you are not brave when it comes to taking on real conflicts, the European People's Party has opposed this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Benedek Sallai.
u2014-06-10-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some points; the first thing for President Font Sándor. Let me tell you, I came up to Budapest this morning from Túrkeve, the Kossuth radio was on, I was listening to Gergely Gulyás, who was asked why Parliament was welding the laws, the parliamentary law, everything else. And Gergely Gulyás said that, indeed, when such a large amount of work is being done, a mistake will slip in. Practice makes mistakes, and we have to correct them. I heard that this morning from Gergely Gulyás. That's why I'm saying that the test of pudding here is eating, so if we can see that it's not good at something, then we have to accept it. [[Sándor Font: You presume.]] I don't think it's good. It's our premonition. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So, according to our experience, these are problems, and it is true that, based on our experience, they must be a problem in what the rural strategy says, because they have an opposite effect. Denmark. I could typically mention the matter of homemade brandy, which is supposed to only be cooked for private purposes, only in small quantities, for private use. Yet, we simply accept a breach of obligations, while we do not want to do so from a land issue that could provide jobs for hundreds of thousands of people. I don't really feel like a good reason. Jobbik and MSZP have told us several problems. [[To the Jobbik.]] I agree with the authors, the agreement was to respond now to the most important questions about earth traffic, but there are many other mistakes. So I agree with the suggestion that several other questions should be opened and discussed. However, I do not agree with the contribution of the MSZP, because the LMP is not at all designed to destroy self-functioning sectors, but to destroy large estates that do not have an occupational impact. We don't have a problem with the 1,500 acres that give 70-80 people jobs, but the 4,000 hectares for which there are four registered full-time employees. This should be removed there and the legal conditions and the degressive aid scheme should be ensured in such a way that it does not have an interest in maintaining such an area if it is not concerned. The amendment to the legislation for employment is what we aim for the most. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/14 initiative to avoid foreign exchange credit traps and to amend certain laws to help those in a foreign currency loan trap. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who, on behalf of the national representatives, would like to speak within a five-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2014-06-10-239	Mr President, Dear House, The May Other is not the first time Politics has made proposals to help them get into a foreign currency loan trap. The proposal, which we propose to include, is based on the measures proposed by the LMP for its adoption in the previous cycle. It is quite clear that foreign exchange loans have plunged many Hungarian families into disaster, that many people have been forced into a contract the consequences of which could not be expected in any way. The spread of foreign currency loans was harmful, and the authorisation or incentive of foreign currency loans was a mistake, since it was a defective product. The responsibility of the State and its role in resolving the situation immediately arises here. According to the LMP, Fidesz-led government measures, the rules adopted in the previous cycle and the latest proposals are not a solution. Exactly the ones left behind and left in trouble who have no chance of getting out of the trap without state help. The final repayment of the previous term helped those in a more efficient situation, not by accident how many Members and politicians took advantage of the opportunity. And the moratorium extension invented in this cycle is just a waste of time. We therefore urge the Parliament to include in the series the proposals made by the representatives of the LMP. In our opinion, the Judicial Committee made a very bad decision when the pro-government members tried to overthrow our proposal with their abstentions. That stay is a rather clear support, but it is not for the foreign exchange creditors, but for the banks. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to convince the honourable pro-government Members, but unfortunately they are not here to stand up for those who are in the worst position, thanks to their foreign exchange credit. The LMP proposal would prohibit foreign exchange-based loans, preventing the recurrence of a disaster. Our proposal is that implementation could no longer be initiated on the basis of a notary deed, and we would not allow banks to transfer their claims arising from a foreign exchange credit agreement to companies with a suspicious background. We also believe that it is time for the courts to have an ex officio examination of the validity of the entire credit agreement even if only part of it is contested by the foreign exchange creditor. These proposals could help the most desperate debtors in a predictable way. These are people who were unable to use the final repayment because they have no money for the monthly instalments, let alone the repayment of the loan as a whole. These are people who are threatened by losing their home. We need to find a permanent solution to the currency credit disaster. Please allow the National Assembly to discuss the proposals of the LMP to assist foreign exchange legitimists, and please stand by those who are in the biggest trouble even today. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-240	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-06-10-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill proposed by the LMP faction would try to effectively address the current foreign exchange credit crisis on four points. On the one hand, we say that, after banks have been fooling consumers for many years, for exactly 13 years, banks should not be able to circumvent the judicial path. It is not possible to deprive people of credit of the possibility of legal protection. That is why we propose that the law prohibit enforcement on the sole basis of a notary deed, not just on real estate, nor on any subject at all, in the case of a claim arising from a foreign currency credit agreement on the sole basis of a notary deed. Secondly, we also take the initiative that precisely because the banks have deceived consumers, these claims cannot be factored, transferred, and groups with half-criminal backgrounds should not be unleashed on families. Three: we also take the initiative that, like other countries in Europe, the courts in Hungary are obliged to examine the entire scope of these types of banking consumer contracts, regardless of whether the application for an action claims, if any, that only part of the contract is invalid. Fourthly, we also propose that the Civil Code ban this type of defective products for the future at least, ban such foreign exchange-based credit transactions in Hungary, so that when the difference between the two currencies can be played freely for banks. That's what we suggested, and interestingly, Fidesz backed down. Here at the plenary session, it would be a responsibility to prove that Fidesz is indeed on the side of the people, the credit-damaged, and not on the side of the banks. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Vigh, Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor. [[19.50]]
u2014-06-10-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, However, I would like to say that more measures have been taken over the past few years in relation to foreign exchange creditors, since the institution of the final repayment and then the exchange rate barrier - and last time we did not set a limit for the eviction moratorium. We sent word to the banks that something had to be done. There was now a court decision in the case of Árpád Kásler, when the court said that the exchange rate used by the bank was not fair. Meanwhile, a decision was made by the European Court of Justice that the local mansion, the Hungarian Mansion, has the right to say the final word in this. On 16 June, we hope, pro-government representatives - I hope you too - that the Curia will make a single law decision, which will mean that from now on there is no point in bringing new lawsuits, because there will be a decision after which Parliament can say once and for all that foreign currency loans are over. I trust what Mihály Varga has announced today, that he will negotiate with the Banking Association, and - I also know that the government will prepare several proposals - we will be able to come before you with a package of proposals, before Parliament and before the whole country, which will settle the whole issue permanently, fairly and retroactively. That's what we trust, and that's what we'll ask for your support. Of course, we support all good proposals, and we abstained not because we do not agree with the principles, but because we have just said what decisions and what decision the government and Parliament intend to make. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-10-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We agree with the authors that this issue must also be dealt with strongly because we feel that what has happened in the past four years has been a waste of time, and that is what we are seeing right now. [[László Vigh is leaving the Chamber.]] I think that if we have such a draft law that we can see and argue about, then we can also add amendments, and whether László Vigh or the Fidesz fraction has the opportunity to address this issue as it should. I am saying that we must, because many people have told us what kind of debt traps and spirals are those people who are trapped in foreign exchange credit right now and in a hopeless situation that I think very few of us can judge well in this building, because there are many times life situations, and there is no time to waste, to play. I think that we should be specific about things that cannot be said that banks are right, or that we are trying to impose different sanctions on banks, or that we are supporting them, or that we are not supporting them. I think that we need to speak openly and honestly on this issue, using the two-thirds majority to move forward on this issue. We agree with all four points, which Mr András Schiffer said, because we agree with him because we consider it very important for the independent Hungarian court to issue judgments that can be dealt with in place. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party considers the four points that the leader of the group has said very important, and on any matter that can and wants to deal with this situation, we demonstrate partnership on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, because we consider it important that this issue be resolved as soon as possible, and we would very much like for the Hungarian Socialist Party to do the same if the Fidesz faction, the governing party, would do the same. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-246	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'm going to ask if the authors want to respond in a two-minute time frame. Yes, Mr András Schiffer wishes to respond from the authors, in a shared framework, please give us a signal before that. Thank you.
u2014-06-10-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to record it, first of all, for Mr Vigh, although it is in vain for him, because he has left the Chamber in a hurry, that the proposal that the LMP has come up with does not in any way restrict the scope of the government's manoeuvre. It does not limit the government's margin of manoeuvre, just as no one and nothing has restricted the government's margin of manoeuvre over the past four years, so that, in addition to the panels produced by the Habony works, it may do something worthwhile to solve the foreign exchange credit crisis. You didn't do that. The proposal, which we are not arguing about adopting, but about whether Parliament is taking it into consideration at all, and if it happens not only to include this proposal in a series of articles, but also to accept it, does not in any way restrict the government's choice of means to finally resolve this blissful situation after four years of office. We should finally come clean. If you guys have nothing against this proposal, why don't you take it into consideration? If they have a problem, then they will accept it and tell them that you have been delayed for the past four years because, outside the propaganda speeches and behind the propaganda speeches, you want to agree with the Banking Association, you look at the interests of the banks, and contrary to what János Lázár said in the summer of 2011, the Fidesz-KDNP is the party that, by the way, is on the banks' side and not on the people's side. That's the way it is, but then you're gonna have to get involved, and then you're gonna have to admit it. Please admit that within a short period of ten days, Fidesz will be able to prove that Fidesz-KDNP is the party and the government that sides with the agents, side with the offshore knights, side with the land robbers and side with the banks, because that's what this is about. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-248	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the T/15 on the transparency of the state security past. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In fact, it is symbolic that today we know about this bill in a rather narrow manner, with a majority of roughly four fifths of opposition, a referendum on public information was held yesterday in Slovenia, which was otherwise invalid, thus becoming uninterested. They will not believe which party even initiated a referendum to ensure that the past is fully transparent in the former Yugoslav republic of Slovenia today. You will not believe: this party was not a socialist party, not a liberal party, but your sister party, the Slovenian party of the European People's Party, the Democratic Party. This can't happen in Hungary, can it? Yes, you hear that in Slovenia, it was the opposition centre-right conservative Christian Democratic People's Party, which, by the way, forced even a referendum to be fully transparent in the past. Not only can certain individuals have access to certain data in some cases, but all Slovenian people can learn about Slovenia's dark past in Tito-Jugoslavia, the dark state security past. But there is one more interesting thing about yesterday's Slovenian story, which is obvious that it cannot happen in Hungary. Even though the Slovenian right-to-right party, the Slovenian sister party of Fidesz, initiated this referendum, a man, namely the former party-founder Prime Minister Janez Janša, could hardly exercise his suffrage. And do you know why Janez Janša couldn't live with his suffrage, why he couldn't vote in the referendum initiated by the Slovenian Democrats of the right-wing European People's Party? Well, that's because Janez Janša started his prison sentence. He started his prison sentence because in Slovenia there is a law that makes the acquisition investigation mandatory for politicians, and in the case of Janez Janša, there is a difference for which Slovenia is in prison. Yeah, you understand, the two stories are connected, and they're linked because these coincidences may not be random. A country that, not only could not face its past after a quarter of a century, could not make a clear distinction at an historic moment between good and bad, negative and positive, moral and immoral, a country without consequences. [[20.00]] A country that is capable of facing its past, even if it is late, but draw a cesure between morally acceptable and morally unacceptable, well, such a country has a chance to be accountable to even a prime minister. Such a country has a chance to establish laws in the house of the law that make even the great politicians accountable. Note: Slovenia is not the only country in our neighbourhood where even a prime minister could be beaten to iron, because the same thing happened to our other southern neighbour, Croatia, and we can also see a miracle in Croatia, the former leader of your sister party and its former prime minister, were beaten and planted on iron, also due to official crimes. A country that is unable to make a clear distinction between pre-democracy and post-democratic change of regime after a quarter of a century can always be relatable in such a country, everything can always be explained and washed and smeared. This bill, which, if I count it correctly, I will now submit to the House for the sixth time, not even without any changes, this bill will not be triggered by the National Remembrance Committee Act. It will not be triggered, even if my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, wrote that he should read this. The thing is, we want a publicity, we want an exploration of the past of state security, where it is not only known who it has reported on. We're not primarily interested in blackmailed, recruited snitches. What interests us is that the LMP is interested in who stood on the command bridges of the old communist state security, built up large information capital, then infiltrated the regime-changer parliament, infiltrated the system-shifting parties, broke up a great existence in the media during the economic transformation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And they robbed this country after 1990. That's what we want to know, and that's what we have to decide tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-06-10-251	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Override encryption, eliminate unjustified retention of documents, increase information compensation for victims and broaden opportunities for scientific research. In short, these are the points for which Jobbik supports this LMP proposal for the n+1th time. However, from time to time, this proposal is slightly changed, a little soft. LMP is not in an easy position to do what to make this acceptable to Fidesz, but it should be said that it is a little soft in the proposal. For example, this version provides exemptions, e.g. on grounds of national security interest, that if, for example, after 2000, the involvement of a member of the national security services is still involved, it is possible to obtain an exemption. This is unacceptable to me, so if you would like to include any proposals in the Fidesz series, then I am sure that we would like to change this with an amendment, since today's Hungary is not bound by the former secrets of the Hungarian People's Republic, which were defined by the relationship with the Warsaw Treaty and the Soviet Union. Today, our interests in internal politics, foreign policy and military policy are quite different, so we cannot tie our hands in exploring the past on the basis of old national security interests. We need a radically new secret service. Rather, the risk of national security is that, for example, international economic lobbyists or foreign secret services can blackmail, in the possession of certain agent lists, those in the lead position who are still unknown or at least unknown to their state security history. They may have spent some time with the National Remembrance Committee and its formation, and now the country-world knows that this has not been a solution, so please accept this proposal in the end, at least include it in a series of subjects. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-06-10-252	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, LMP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-253	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you. Since the change of regime in Hungary, there has not been a reassuring solution for getting to know party state documents. The laws that are intended to resolve the issue are far more in the interests of the unsubs than the victims, and are born in the spirit of an unconventional political deal. Often, unreal interpretations are forced on researchers, and past exploration sometimes becomes a legal farce. Meanwhile, in the majority of socialist successor states, the issue of learning about the past has now been regulated in a more fairer way. For the sixth time, our proposal seeks to address the issue of learning about the past, taking into account both the public interest and the protection of sensitive data. The establishment of the recently set-up National Remembrance Committee is of no value, since if its activities and findings cannot be verified by the public, and it depends only on the role and professionalism of the members of the committee elected by the majority of governments. Therefore, the LMP's bill aims to establish a genuine publicity so that, instead of the National Remembrance Committee monopolising scientific research, the data necessary for the identification of all persons cooperating with state security can be made public in the public interest, i.e. by anyone. An outstanding element of the proposal is also the obligation to regularly process the data in a separate report for persons exercising public authority in recent decades and for key actors in national policy. Let us be clear: is there a secret history of the change of regime? The Possibly Other in Politics is not the first time he has made his proposals to settle the issue. [[The president's ringing the bell to warn us that the deadline is over.]] I sincerely wish that this would be the last one, and instead of sweeping under another rug, let us finally give the past a chance to face. Please make it possible...
u2014-06-10-254	Thank you, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-255	.......................................................................................................................................... so that the Parliament can negotiate the proposal. Thank you.
u2014-06-10-256	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Demeter, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament adopted the bill on the National Memorial Committee on 17 December 2013 [[Foreman Novak: Committee of National Remembrance. I'm happy to help.]] which, according to you, means nothing and is not effective. [[Ancient Novak: It certainly doesn't mean anything.]] Let's see what this bill says. In accordance with Article U (3) of the Fundamental Law, a law has been established concerning the operation and organisation of the Committee of National Remembrance on the Remembrance of the Communist Dictatorship, the exploration of the power of the Communist Dictatorship, the breakdown of the prerogatives of communist owners of power and the search for sinners still alive among us. With the establishment of a committee, we believe that the country can achieve serious results [[The Foreman of Novak: When?]] CHAPTER XX on the way to the processing of his centuries of dictatorial history. The purpose of the legislation adopted is to take further steps to consolidate the rule of law, constitutionality and Hungarian democracy by promoting the research carried out during communism. [[Lózung!]] The time interval since the establishment of the committee is so short that the assessment of the work of the committee and the possibilities provided by the legislation is almost impossible. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I ask you to let the committee work. [[The Foreman of Novak: Ten years? Twenty years?]] and help the committee to do its work as efficiently and as quickly as possible [[Novák Előd: Encryptions may be dissolved. Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] and, of course, we look forward to the results together. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-258	Thank you, Congressman. I would ask my fellow Members to note that this is not a continuous dialogue. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Harangozó, Member István, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-10-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I don't think we're gonna do this committee thing. Hungary, the Hungarian population, has the right to the full public. [[Novak Előd: Then why didn't you?]] Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports this proposal as before. [[Foreman Novak: Except when he was on the wheel.]] and supports the provision of full publicity through legislation. Thank you very much. [[It's hard to tell a lie!]] [[20.10]]
u2014-06-10-260	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-06-10-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact that the LMP faction participates in a larger number than the Fidesz faction is telling itself. That's a hell of a score, though. And the other, Congressman Demeter, is to have an A in the lottery, which is to say that I would have said in advance what you were going to say before you applied for a speech. [[Zoltán Demeter: I'll take yours, too.]] This is what you are trying to understand: this proposal concerns the ability of the Hungarian people, regardless of any committees, to know how the communist state security before'89 destroyed not only their private lives, how it leaked into the democratic regime change, how people who were in possession of much information were in charge of the communist secret service. Perhaps even 15-20 years later, it will be possible to see how fundamental economic and political processes could be manipulated by people who could acquire their wealth, power positions not after the change of regime, but before that. We don't know much about this today, either you or I, and because these files remain classified, no matter what committee you set up. I've had enough of your bullshit, my mischief! Make it clear that you really want to hide the agents, the old holding officers? That's what this story is about. And one more thing: we're very happy to cooperate with the committee. You know, Congressman Demeter, for example, we have made a proposal that this committee should review everyone who, after'the summer of 89, was part of the Hungarian political elite. Without request, let us see a clear, transparent biography of everyone who participated in the National Round Table in '89 and later in the work of Parliament or the Government. That's part of the proposal. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And my fellow Member Novak, which he opposed, was involved in all the proposals that have been made so far. That is why it is incomprehensible that Fidesz is still fleeing this softened version. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait on the proposal for an agreement on visa waiver for nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports will follow. The submission is T/56. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the resolution rules are 102. The Committee on Foreign Affairs shall conduct the detailed discussion of the proposal as a committee designated under paragraph 1 of paragraph 1. I give the floor to Mr Tibor Navracsics, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-10-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill that I have the honour to present to Parliament today contains the agreement signed by the President of the Republic during his visit to Kuwait at the beginning of December 2013. This Convention is essentially about the fact that the Government of Hungary and the Government of the State of Kuwait have taken note of the agreement on visa waiver for nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports. Therefore, the basic provision of the Agreement is that Hungarian citizens holding a valid diplomatic or service passport, or citizens of Kuwait holding a valid diplomatic or special passport, may travel without a visa for a period not exceeding 90 days per 180-day period, or may stay in the territory of each other's State without a residence permit. At the same time, nationals serving at diplomatic or consular representations of one Party accredited to the other Party, who hold a valid diplomatic, service or special passport, and members of their family living with them in the same household, may enter and reside in the territory of the State of the other Contracting Party with a valid visa for the entire duration of their service. We hope that this agreement, if the National Assembly adopts it, will contribute to making it easier to communicate with one of the most prominent countries in the Gulf region and with our outstanding economic partner, Kuwait, and to visit the citizens of the two countries, as well as to trade and investment in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-06-10-264	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first among which will be held by keynote speakers, within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions should be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker. I wonder if one of the political groups would like to make a keynote speaker. Yes, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-06-10-265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, We have heard that, in line with the government's external economic strategy, it is key Kuwait. This spring we also learned that the other countries of the Arabian peninsula are at least as key, as Viktor Orbán visited Saudi Arabia for a business visit. During this business visit, the delegation included a János Kóka, whose name may sound familiar among the walls of the House. János Kóka represented a company in which Ferenc Gyurcsány, a former Prime Minister, happens to have a stake. It turns out to this businessman János Kóka the service passport, my dear Minister, was not put in his pocket by someone else, but by your deputy, Péter Szijjártó. So while we are talking about the Arabian peninsula and the Hungarian foreign economic relations, and the service passports, I think it is a great opportunity to clarify in Parliament why the State Secretary of State, Péter Szijjártó, stabs a service passport in the pocket of János Kóka for accounting purposes. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-266	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no more political groups have made themselves known for the speech by the lead speaker, further speeches will now take place. I would like to draw your attention to the 15-15-minute time frame for these. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Minister if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-10-267	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the generosity of the opposition. That was a really big comment. I thank you, too, for your support, but you are a little lost or too early, Congressman Schiffer, because you do not yet have appointed State Secretarys to the Government, so I do not have a State Secretary named Péter Szijjártó. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-10-268	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Parliamentary amendments may be tabled by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Sallai Benedek, representative of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-269	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-10-270	While installing the microphone, I will give you the title of your speech: " How has rural quality of life changed over the past four years? "You have the floor.
u2014-06-10-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I mostly wonder when I come to Parliament every morning or at 1:00 a.m., when it starts, what it is to be represented here, and what it is that this work needs to be done for. Again and again, I am troubled by the fact that, during the period I have spent here, I see what an excellent tool Parliament's work is to exercise power-tech tools, but at the same time how little has been said about the issues that are really important. I'm very, very fond of reading various Fidesz texts and strategic plans, because if there's no government program anymore, at least I'm looking at what he's done in the last cycle. One of my favourite texts is the National Rural Strategy 2012-2020. Allow me to make a short quote from this. [[20.20]] " in Hungary the countryside is in deep crisis. In particular, small settlements, as well as small regions located on the outer and inner "ends, " have become almost hopeless. There is both chronic unemployment, labour shortages in individual areas and occupations. Rural local communities have lost their service, community-sustaining institutions, schools, community transport facilities, health care institutions, offices, post offices, nature gave their activities, agriculture adapted to the environment, food production. As a result, the vulnerability of the country and the Hungarian society - food, water and energy, employment and social - has become increasingly severe. Rural life in Hungarian public thinking has now become a disadvantage. " That is what the national rural strategy says, and that is, among other reasons, why the eight years that have been greatly criticised - as we hear it all the time - failed so hard in 2010. I am looking at all these plans that the government has formulated, what activities are coupled with, and what we can see. The Fidesz government promised to restore the 1332 kilometres of railway under the Socialist Government in the 2010 elections and said that it would restore these rural wing lines; it would restore public transport and reduce the isolation of the settlements. Compared to this, we managed to do anything at 385 km, less than a quarter, and only 11 out of 38 railway lines were re-opened; 947 km of public transport remains, and there is still no rail transport. We could assume that this was because in these settlements the government might have provided road access under better conditions, and it did so because it might have put the resources there so that as many lower roads as possible could be built. In the case of lower roads, the road network of 30,000 kilometres is what Fidesz concluded at the beginning of its governance that it needs to be renovated and restored. After living in a rural area, where there is only one-digit main road, it is also quite poor quality, and motorways avoid us far enough - which may not be such a big problem, they do not take away the resources until they are there - so I go on a lot of these three-four-digit roads, and I find that there are roads that threaten the safety of transport, which are impossible to reach. So I'm going to see what the government has done, and I'm going to find out that from the 30,000 kilometers of road network development, they promised at all 1,000 kilometers by the end of 2015. So, again, I see a tiny, fifteenth part of what needs to be done. I look at the fact that, in 2003, in 2004, hundreds of village post offices were eliminated, and the number itself is terrifying what happened in that administration. Then the Fidesz strongly criticized all of this and promised the voters the restoration of this. Six of these hundreds have been restored in Fidesz's four-year activity, so six out of the hundreds have been achieved. Small-scale schools were also closed in the order of 100 between 2002 and 2010. From this, the restoration has hardly begun, and further closure in the current education plan is still expected under the name of rationalization. Compared to all that, what do I see in the campaign we're going on with? I can see that the pálinka and acacia are at a high level, and from the problems in the countryside, these are the ones that are most exposed. I always wonder if there is a good strategic plan, a rural strategy that outlines the problems, which outlines the steps. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Then how can this force not be used for this use. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-10-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, called "The Message of Csíksomlyó" also applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-06-10-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, " Happy is the bee that carried you. " - said this year's farewell slogan. There were many of us, I believe, here in the House, in Ciucsomlyó, and I thought that this year's farewell was worth remembering in a few thoughts, because I think we can all learn a lot from what was said there and the message of this year's farewell. From 1444 onwards, IV. We begin the farewell from the circle of Pope Jenő, when he encouraged the faithful to help the Franciscan orders to be helpful and to prepare the church. This has happened, and the Szekler people, whose mary cult has already existed... - Mary Babba was referred to as a woman dressed in the sun, and she was much respected by the Szeklers. This was certainly part of the fact that farewell is, to this day, such an important and central element of Hungarianism and Christian culture. But there were other legends and stories that contributed to the departure of the farewell, and they explained this. We can no longer know exactly what the starting point was, but an interesting story is that, for example, in 1567, Prince János Zsigmond of Transylvania lived his unitarian religion, as he had more in his life, attacked Christians in the Ciuc and forced them to convert. At that time, the priest of Gheorgheni fought back in the Battle of the Robbery, while the children and women were praying in the church of Szívsombya, and as a kind of miracle, they were able to repel this violent conversion attempt, and in memory of it, the farewell visit finally started. In the 1990s, this farewell walk grew in its place, and it was then that the two Somlyó Hills moved up into the middle saddle, and since then hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have had the opportunity to appear here every year. By the way, today he has grown into a kind of ecumenical national holiday, not just a meeting place for Christian Hungarians. This year Dénes Oláh was a parish priest, Archdeacon, who gave the sermon. I'd like to draw two thoughts from him. I liked it very much when he quoted the story of St. Augustine, when St. Augustine warned his followers how interesting it was how worried we were about the fall of a crumb at communion, and we were trying to prevent it, because we are talking about Christ himself at this time, but we are less concerned about listening to the word of God, and we should not let any crumbs perish, because it is also Christ himself. There were also very valuable thoughts about Our Lady. I also liked it very much when he spoke about three of the most important aspects of our Christian faith, in which Our Lady played a significant role, and in all three cases she was present, and was indeed the driving force behind it, if I may put it this way, because the incarnation, redemption and Pentecost, the coming of the Holy Spirit, are all stories closely related to the Virgin Mary, and I believe that without her involvement and example, the understanding of these three important moments could not be understood. For me every year, however, it causes me new experiences and serious uplifting, not the first time I've had the opportunity to experience this, and I urge every Hungarian Christian or national patriot to experience it at least once in life, I'm sure he won't regret it. I think that the Holy Spirit will give us all some kind of property or a means to make our own environment, our own lives better and better, and I think that Csíksomlyo will give us an excellent opportunity to find this holy spirit, this gift, which may then be more useful in everyday life. Getting to know the message of Pentecost and the secret of Csíksomlyó from year to year, I think we can all benefit, no matter which denomination we belong to. I hope that this message will not only be written here within the walls of the House and spread more and more, but also across the country, across the border, and even among Hungarians living on other continents, because the message of Csíksomlyó is different for all of us, depending on the attitude and attitude of people. At the same time, there is also a common message that all Hungarians, all Christians, must accept, and that without faith, this nation will be lost, and if we believe and join forces and join forces, then we can do anything. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[20.30]]
u2014-06-10-274	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, also spoke after the agenda: "The present of an impoverished mining town. " I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-10-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for this opportunity to speak after the agenda, because unfortunately, it is a widespread and widespread problem in Hungary, in rural Hungary, that former mining cities are in a worse and worse situation, so rural Hungary is in general, but this situation may be particularly felt in the former industrial and mining towns, in particular in my narrower country, in Veszprém County or in my constituency, in the case of Várpalota. This settlement had more than a hundred years of mining history when its last mine was closed in 1996. And a prosperous life, a thriving urban life, has ended the mining activity, and since then we can say that it is only a vegetation, because new jobs have not been created or have been created in very small numbers, unemployment is extremely high, and the prosperous cultural, social and social life that was once characteristic of the settlement is now just the past. However, they do not think that there was some sort of vague nostalgia of Kadár, for mining, as I said, has been looking back over a hundred years, and has lived to its flourishing glory in the '30s, even during the Horthy era. Therefore, mining alone was due to investment as a job-creating activity, to the fact that this settlement could become a city of this magnitude and flourish and a number of other settlements in the country. Many today say that this mining is the past, and it is no longer worth talking about what would happen if there were to be another mining activity in Hungary. The Jobbik Hungary Movement also set out in its programme that this mining activity could be restarted there, in the coal pool in the Castle Palace or elsewhere, and based on domestic mineral resources Hungary's energy supply, of course in addition to renewables and nuclear energy. We have heard this from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán on several occasions in the previous term, but no concrete steps have been taken to implement it until this moment, and even the last underground coal mine in Hungary will be closed at the end of this year. It's about the Lion power plant and the Markushegy coal mine. Returning to Várpalota, however, the city had a thriving, vibrant cultural and social life. The governments of the last 24 years have managed to do much to stop this. Fortunately, there are well-functioning traditional organizations in the city who strive to maintain, cultivate and cultivate old culture, cultural traditions, and try to make the people who live there believe that there is still a future for the city, and it is worth staying there, it is worth having a family and having children there. We believe that this settlement could start again on the road to prosperity if this mining activity could be restarted. I mean, as long as it was work, it was everything. Like one of Jobbik's election campaign slogans said, if there's work, there's everything, if there's no work, there's nothing. Today, it can be seen in health care and much more. Many people miss the obstetrics of the hospital in Várpalota and consider it necessary for separate medical offices to be established in different parts of the city, as this is not the case at the moment. The medical office of the two parts of the city is located in the same location, under undeserving circumstances. The lack of a doctor remains unsolved, and this leads to people leaving the settlement in a straight line, because where health care or even education is at an inadequate level, there is a kind of emigration. I see it with my own eyes, because it is my constituency - I repeat - that more and more empty shops, shops, catering units are closing down, and there is a separate part of the city, a stand-by housing facility for the city, where the problem is even greater, even more so, in the form of metal thefts, illegal waste disposal or depopulation. We think it might be possible to start the settlement as a flower again. There used to be swimming pools, tennis courts, shops, medical supplies, and everything could be restored. Many ask when there will be a real job and a living again. I would like to remind the government once again that in the election programme of the Jobbik Hungary Movement we have described precisely and in our local electoral programme specifically the area of Várpalota what should be done so that the region can finally start again on the path of development and job creation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-10-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Meeting day's closed. I thank you for your work, and we will resume our work tomorrow at 8:00. [[Meeting ended at 8:35 p.m.]]
