u2014-11-10-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the voters' community.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Dezső Believer will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik faction, applied for the speech before the agenda today:. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-10-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Interim municipal elections were held in 11 places yesterday. Two of these places were interested in Jobbik: Ricken and Ozdon. We won here on October 12th. I am pleased to inform the public of this country, which you already know, that the mayor of the better place has remained in both places. In fact, not only did he retain his position as mayor, but he has increased the number of votes by force and made clear the social will there. Just so we can see the numbers: on October 12th, Recsen separated the representative of Fidesz from us. This rose to 120 yesterday, and David Ózdon Janiczak won by 66 votes on 12 October. Now he had to settle for more than 5,200 votes. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] So we've won two-thirds while we're at the numbers. But what I think is important in this regard is that with a broad cooperation, with a credible new force, the two-thirds amok run can be stopped, and the two-thirds arrogance can be stopped and eliminated. That's why I said it yesterday, and that's why David Janiczak said yesterday that it was no longer the last election battle of the 2014 election season, it was the first battle of the elections in 2018 or earlier, which Jobbik won as an obstacle. I would like, of course, to thank the Ozdians and the Recskians and everyone who took part in this vote and to send a message to the public of the country, to whom this victory has given hope that what happened in Ozd will happen in 2018 or 2018 will also happen in the country. Well, after all these good news, after we've all been happy about it together, let's get to the other topic on the agenda; it won't be so happy for you: this is the ban scandal. I would like to say to you, my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP, that the question is long ago not whether Ildikó Vida should resign and when, the question is who of you, the members of the government, will resign and when. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I think the question is why you have to resign!]] This scandal has gotten fat so far. If you believe that people feel that the shadow of corruption has thrown a little bit on the government, then that's not true. People see you in the cesspool of corruption, trying not to sink completely. I try to be fair, and I try to show it to other opposition parties and to see that there is an international force field in this conflict, and that when we look at the events of Hungarian internal politics, we do have to watch the events from an international perspective. What do I mean? Not so far from us, in a neighbouring country, a huge geopolitical game is taking place. Russia and the United States are at war in Ukraine. Gorbachev himself said a few days ago that we were entering another Cold War era, and he's right about that. From this cold war point of view, we also have to evaluate the events that are taking place in Hungary, which is happening here, we also have to look at internal political events so that the influence of international influence does not increase in Hungary. Well, from this point of view, does the ban scandal have different perspectives, and I find it very bad if someone is? such as Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is not here now, is he again abroad? Takes problems abroad and tries to expose the domestic laundry abroad. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who misses him?]] The Jobbik would never do that. That's what we call the bottom. Let's face it, however, that when Fidesz-KDNP's representatives call to account for Ildikó Vida's case, that this is not fair, that we should not immediately shout guilty, that we should not prejudicate, that we should be touched by the presumption of innocence, that you are right. As opposition party leader, I'll admit you're right, everyone should be under the impression of innocence. I suppose that's what you think. So, in the case of Béla Kovács, that wasn't important? So it didn't matter to you the presumption of innocence, that we didn't just scream guilty? In the case of Béla Kovács, could it be prejudicated? How painful it is to be attacked without real arguments, isn't it? ! So what I've been thinking about since you've been squirming is the saying that God doesn't beat me with a stick. You were beaten by the good Lord with an American friend, so wear it now. So the geopolitical conflict is also taking place in Hungary, and we see it, believe us, we see it, and we shape our steps accordingly. It is your responsibility not to ring into Hungary more and more, which seems to ring in more and more. How do we stop that? I mean, if you guys can finally clear yourselves of the corruption charge. Don't throw up this high ball. It should have been clear a long time ago whether there is corruption in the government or there is no corruption. That's the job. Because as long as they do not do so, they actually allow international background forces to intervene in Hungary's internal political struggles. I know this is a difficult question, because you're facing a dilemma. Hungary is at a crossroads and so is the government. I mean, if you insist that there was no corruption, you try to hide it, you might lose your way into the geopolitical game. If corruption is discovered, the people's anger may drive you away, but that's what politics is like. I'd like to tell you that this soup was cooked by you, you put the ingredients in it, you have to drink it out to the last drop, even if the soup is mixed with someone else. Thank you for your attention. Enjoy your meal. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-2	Thank you, Mr. Team Leader Vona. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2014-11-10-3	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Mr President, First of all, he presented the results of the Ozd and Recsk elections, which everyone could follow last night. Of course, I congratulate the elected mayors and congratulate Jobbik for finding the racist voters of the MSZP [[Uproar, interrogation, and clarity in the benches of the Jobbik.]] They've managed to turn the voters and direct their votes to themselves. From the election result in Ozd, it is clear that while Fidesz's candidate for mayor increased his support, the MSZP received 3 percent, while Jobbik really enjoyed 65 percent support. In the previous round, the candidate of the MSZP achieved more than 20 percent four weeks ago. That's why I'm telling you that I congratulate you on finding those racist MSZP voters that the MSZP has been looking for for for a long time, by the way. [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] With regard to the President of the NAV, Mr Group Leader, he said that the President of the NAV should resign, and that is not the question of when he should resign. I thought you said the question was why you had to resign. Because a country is waiting for an explanation of the crime that the United States believes the president of the national tax authority has committed. Do I think it's fair to do that? On behalf of all Hungarian citizens? We can expect the person who makes an accusation to present the evidence to the full public, to present the evidence to the entire Hungarian public. [[13.10]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you agree with us that Budapest is not Guantánamo, where a verdict is first declared and then a hearing is held. Let's turn him over and restore the rule of law. First, an accusation must be made against someone, the charge must be investigated, in which case, if there is a well-founded charge, a trial must be held and a judgment can be given on the basis of the trial. This is the order of the Hungarian rule of law; I hope that other countries will also respect the Hungarian rule of law. He says why, in the case of Béla Kovács, he is not entitled to the presumption of innocence. Please recall that Béla Kovács, the Hungarian prosecutor, wants to prosecute Béla Kovács on the basis of their investigation. So exactly the case of Béla Kovács, which does not happen, has not happened to the President of the NAV at this moment. In the case of Béla Kovács, the Hungarian chief prosecutor therefore wishes to press charges based on an investigation, so he turned to the European Parliament with immunity, and the European Parliament will decide, and of course, in a regular criminal proceedings, Béla Kovács and anyone in Hungary will be able to clarify themselves. The government has to clear itself of the corruption charge. I fully agree with you that every corruption case must be investigated. In any case, if the accusation of corruption is made, and at least a minimum of evidence in this regard, but at least someone who makes a report on the charge of corruption, these announcements must be examined. Since 1 January 2014, Parliament has adopted a very strong whistleblower protection law in Hungary since 1 January 2014, both the state offices and the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights have the right to collect these complaints anonymously and then investigate these complaints, so the whistleblower protection in Hungary is fully ensured. It is likely that even the announcement of foreign diplomats would be treated with such rigor in the Hungarian procedure. So be my guest. We are looking forward to those brave announcements, reporters, who want to make a suspicion of corruption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-5	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to talk about the issue of education and access to knowledge. However, before I do this, I reject the sentences that Mr Secretary of State has said about socialist voters. Secretary of State, defeat must be with dignity, and I wish you as much practice as possible. By the way, these sentences don't fit your mental abilities. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] And as for education, here's what we think. Everywhere, during the crisis and since the crisis, the system of education has been touched, the possibility of access to knowledge has been extended everywhere, within the European Union and outside the Union. There is only one government in Europe, and even in the broadest sense of Europe, that has reduced access to knowledge. You have shamelessly reduced the age limit for compulsory education, taking their hands off 12-15 thousand young Hungarians and young people each year. Anywhere where the age limit for compulsory education has been reached? They didn't touch it everywhere, but where they touched it? It was raised there, but you're the ones who reduced it. Now they are preparing for a similar step when they are thinking about narrowing up high school seats, when they call it profile cleaning that in Hungary they want fewer young people to go to high schools, and they really don't want to reduce high schools, they want to reduce high school space, they want to make fewer college students. Obviously, if there are fewer college students, there are fewer critics, and they think they will see fewer people on weekends at Joseph's Rádor Square. I must inform you that this is not the case. We are all interested in creating a good vocational training system, but you, who think that by diminuting another education sector and reducing opportunities to another area, access to vocational training, is completely wrong and wrong. It is not possible at all to understand how, for example, in the case of foundation schools, budget support is reduced to 75% in the case of teachers' wages, and then announced in a few days that they will not reduce it, and reported as a huge victory that they managed to return from minus 5 to zero. This, please, is not a victory, but an admission of stupidity, which is an appropriate response to the demands of professional organisations and opposition forces. I don't know if it's clear enough, but we have managed to put together a curriculum that will result in the year we're discussing the draft budget of which we're discussing, in the last two years of high school, you guys, in the 11th and 12th grade, are going to cancel IT education. I'm gonna say it again because we don't all have to do education? But obviously you all have children, grandchildren, acquaintances? In the era of globalization, in the era of the IT revolution, Hungarian young people, boys and girls, 17-18 years old, high school students will not learn IT because they could not put this into the curriculum, and from 2015 onwards you call it modern education. As if they could not see that they are now facing a generation one in one, and the manifestations of this are visible not only in the capital, but also in rural cities, who have a completely different mindset. They refuse to submit to you, they refuse to accept your principles, they refuse to accept their ideas in the field of education, and they do not accept their stupid and aviated ideas on university matters, but instead they choose the protest; and I regret to say that more and more of them, because of their actions, believe that they will learn abroad, that even though we are waiting for them, they may not come back. This is no longer an education policy, but a failed social policy, your crime. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-10-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[13.20]]
u2014-11-10-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You made false accusations against this government, honourable Member, and when you said those words, you obviously forgot that when the socialists were in government, you somehow failed to achieve the goal of bringing knowledge to as many young people as possible so that as many young people as possible could get into the system of public education and learn the most modern sciences. After all, how can you and any socialist politician talk about facilitating access to knowledge when you have completed school closures, your government was the government of school closures in the countryside, and we have reopened some of these schools, precisely so that everyone has the opportunity to study locally and to study on the ground. What means the area of higher education: think back, honourable Member, if we ask an average Hungarian what comes to his mind about the eight-year-old socialist-free Democrat higher education policy, it is probably one of the most common ones that the attempt to introduce the tuition fee will be mentioned. When you said you saw that you were spending more and more on higher education, but you wouldn't spend more on it from the community, from the budget, but instead you would have to cover your parents' income on which they paid the tax dollars to maintain public education, and the other part that remained with them would be paid for their children's tuition, and only an overwhelming referendum could prevent you from introducing the tuition fee to everyone in higher education. If something had deterred young people from applying for higher education, that would be exactly what it would have been if everyone in higher education had to pay a tuition fee. This would indeed have narrowed the possibilities for further education, which would indeed have reduced the possibility of acquiring knowledge, especially for children with poorer fates, since those whose parents were earning better would obviously have been able to afford the tuition more easily, but you would have taken it away from children with poor fates. And what you've spent your money on education development and in what style, how useful you've spent it, I think if I say cocoa-proof computers, everyone knows what I'm thinking. This was the very modern program you've organized, and everyone's access program, that something was bought for multiples just to add such an adjective. Face it, honourable Member, that is what we are saying by making textbooks free of charge, how much we have removed from the shoulders of families this year. They paid half a billion forints less, and we saved 1 billion forints from the central budget. Now, in two years next year, these students will have access to the textbook free of charge to the third graders, and in a nicely upswing system. Thus, farming when their children go to school is much more sustainable for all families. But that's not all we can say. Let us consider another example of, say, the interest rate on student loans; this is very much comparable in your time and in our time. The interest on student loans has risen much higher in your time. And even if someone doesn't get the number of points they can use as a public scholarship student, they still have the option of entering the student loan2 system with a 2-percent interest payment. Why haven't you introduced student loans? Why didn't you want to give the students such discounts? Why is it that both student loans1 and student loans2 were born under the Fidesz-KDNP administration and not under the MSZP administration? Why are you privatized in textbooks, and we have made textbooks free, so that we can make schooling easier for everyone? And if you are looking at the budget numbers, honourable Member, you see that this year's budget has much more money in the field of education. For the entire public education, the budget will be HUF 711 billion instead of 655 billion this year. I think we're going to come back to this more today. Because what we're saying is that if there's something to be sacrificed from budget resources, it's in this area. More needs to be sacrificed, much more, because, at your time, state forints have fallen short, for example, from higher education, so now we need to replace the PPPs and other developments that have been created in higher education because of the lack of your resources and thus financed the further operation of universities from a kind of disguised debt. The fact that we dared to escape in the field of internal training in higher education, that engineering, science training, IT training is now a much larger proportion, thus also proving that we are trying to create a degree for everyone that can then be placed. We, honourable Member, want everyone in Hungary to have the skills to get a job, it can be a higher education, but it can also be a secondary education. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The group leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Péter Harrach, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-10-9	Mr President, Dear House, I think that sometimes, not only on political issues that trigger debate, but also on the calendar, we also have to talk about events that are linked to one day or another. I did the same thing yesterday, as did the international community that remembered the fall of the Berlin Wall in Berlin. Indeed, on November 9, this event was perhaps the most important. But I found another one. They have so much in common that one is about the brutality of the communist system and the other is about the symbolic event of the system's failure. Let us remember what happened. On November 9, 1989, the Communist Party of the GDR could no longer resist the great pressure and took a decision to open the wall. Of course, they didn't think about tearing down the wall at the time. It could be said that the wall collapsed on this day, at least in a political sense. History is important to us, since it has Hungarian implications. On 11 September 1989 Hungary opened its borders to the citizens of the GDR. Whose political merit this is, I do not wish to interfere with that debate, but the reception and care of thousands of refugees is an inexorable merit of a NGO, the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, and a church person, Imre Kozma. These events? the demolition of the wall and the opening of the Hungarian border? There were signs of the fall of the communist regime and the collapse of the Soviet Union. Not only the inability and inhumanity of the system, but also excellent political people have played a role in this. Think of Lech Wałęsa, President Reagen, and of course II. Pope John Paul, too. And whoever understands the words of time, let's not miss Gorbachev. And speaking of II. I mentioned John Paul, and he added the other event that also took place on the 9th, the happy initiation of Vilmos Apor. So you set the martyr Bishop of Győr before us as an example that is important not only to us, but to the whole world. This was indeed the brutality of the communist regime. We know the story when the Soviet soldiers, among whom there were, of course, decent men, but there were quite a number of people who robbed, stole, and raped women, and protected the women of Győr, and then a Soviet soldier tried to pull him out of the way with a series, and the martyr bishop died. So events are linked in this day that show the nature of communism and the symbolic events of its end and fall. And, of course, in the news, let me mention it at the end because there is also an international aspect of the interview that is worth mentioning. This is a joint interview between the Hungarian and Bavarian prime ministers, which appeared in Die Welt. This is based on the traditional Hungarian-Bajor relationship. The common opinion on the Union, democracy and European values is also important to us because it shows that Hungary's ambitions and hopes are slowly increasing and increasing its acceptance. So this day is not only a memorial day for an event that meant the end of communism, but also a display of the values that helped this end and are still theirs for the Hungarian endeavour. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2014-11-10-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2014-11-10-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, A very positive message of this 25 - year Memorial Day, November 9, is that no wall can remain standing forever, separating peoples, free peoples, and captive nations from each other. Sooner or later, all the people, all the nations, will tear down these walls, which have risen as a limit to their freedom, and sooner or later, freedom, even if it takes 40 or 45 years to wait, has come everywhere. As you said, it was necessary to stand up to very brave people, and it was not natural at all. I think it is very fortunate for both Hungary and the people of the eastern German provinces that there was an American president like Ronald Reagan, a pope like Ronald Reagan II. John Paul, and there was a British Prime Minister like Margaret Thatcher. If the three of them were not at the top of these three geopolitically important powers at the same time, it is very likely that the Soviet Union and the communist regime would have been removed for years and that part of Central Europe would not have been liberated from Soviet occupation and communist dictatorship in 1989-90. I mean, if we even look at President Reagan? Who, we can be proud of, now has a statue here not far from the Parliament building; did the Fidesz-KDNP administration say a few years ago? If he hadn't been president, but a Jimmy Carter policy would have continued in the U.S., it's possible, even certain, that we wouldn't have managed to bring the Soviet Union to its knees with economic means, without a single gun shot, with the Cold War and the Star War plan. If Margaret Thatcher's stubbornness within the European Union had not been ally with Ronald Reagan in this area, then perhaps in Europe we would have been less able to bring the Western European powers here to the knees of the Soviet Union. And II. The election of Paul János was a kind of message, for he was the one who was able to see the oppression in Central Europe, Eastern Europe, the religious freedom of people, their rights to property, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, freedom of association, and freedom of association in Eastern Europe. The fact that these three people could have been in the three important positions of the world at the same time created the opportunity for the Germans, for the Hungarians to have total freedom. And, as Mr.Chief of the Group said, it was also necessary to do so from other countries: Lech Wałęsa from Poland, Václav Havel from the Czech Republic, József Antall or Viktor Orbán from Hungary, who dared to demand freedom here, dared to demand the withdrawal of Soviet troops, thus establishing the basis for the Central European realisation of freedom from Western Europe. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] And I would add that the moment the Soviet soldiers left Hungary, there could be freedom in Hungary at the moment. If it is referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States of its intention to take the necessary measures to comply with this Regulation. We look at the history of the 20th century, it was always the beginning of repression, a dictatorship was formed, and a great deal of disenfranchisement was created in Hungary when foreign troops were stationed in the territory of the country. The Hungarian nation is a freedom-loving people, it was also manifested in 1956, and therefore only through foreign troops could anyone form any dictatorial arrangement here in Hungary. We Hungarians did not tolerate XX. In the century, we did not rebel against oppression in any way. The role of 1956 was also important, since many in Western Europe thought that communism was a kind of a pleasant society based on equality, and the news of the revolution in 1956, after the, after the 56th revolution, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, who said the real situation in Western Europe and North America, were able to report what kind of oppression there really is in Hungary, what kind of oppression there is in the Central European region, and this cannot be called acceptable in any way, but this is an extremely serious dictatorship, not a pleasant equality situation under the cover of communism. For us Central European countries, a German wall resolution, which was obviously the model of a breakthrough in the Iron Curtain at the end of August, on the Austrian-Hungarian border, on the same part of the East Germans, shows that we Central European countries are in a community of fate. It shows that if we help each other, as we did in Poznań and Budapest in 1956 and 89 here in Sopron and Berlin, then we can achieve results together for the freedom of Central European peoples. This is linked to all of us, because there is democracy in these countries if we can stand up for each other and for the sovereignty of our own people. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Will you finally say her name?]] Sovereignty and freedom are included in Annex XX to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the first century there were two closely linked concepts for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:, How could the reduction of knowledge become a goal? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In Hungary, the forced construction of the so-called work-based society, which was visited by Viktor Orbán, has given new impetus. The Fidesz-KDNP government seeks to remove all elements from the education system that would provide the basis for a knowledge-based society and a knowledge economy. For the past four years, they've started this transformation at a rapid pace. The age of compulsory education was reduced to 16 years, the vocational training period was reduced and public knowledge was minimized. They introduced the new national basic curriculum, nationalised and centralised the school system to the full. Hundreds of billions of forints were withdrawn from the operation and maintenance of the education system. And then we didn't even talk about cutting down higher education and closing the doors to higher education. The Hungarian education system did not perform well before, among other reasons is the extremely low level of Hungarian employment and economic development. Hungarian education does not prepare a significant part of students in the XXI. The challenges of the century. Yet, the government wants to remove precisely the elements of public education that would develop students' general education and skills and abilities. I don't want the educated head of men. The transformation of the education system is a negative utopia of the work-based society, and it wants easy to replace workers who are deprived of their rights. This is a real Eastern opening policy: we want to compete with the low added value, low-cost labour force of the Eastern countries. We want to get to where India or China started, even though they are increasingly investing in knowledge. There is also a plan to halv the high school seats, which we have recently heard so many references from Viktor Orbán and László Parragh, the shadow minister of education. Instead of high school students, the head of Fidesz wants to see skilled workers. The only thing he doesn't take into account is that despite dual training, despite the acquisition of the profession, the XXI. It doesn't work like it did before the change of regime when the Prime Minister went to school. The LMP is a globalization critical party, but it is important to see that the world is changing at a rapid pace, and young people need to be prepared for this change. In the Fidesz vision, Hungary may forever base its economy on multinational companies employing cheap labour and assembly plants, but this will not always be the case. It is not enough to give young people a profession, it must also be able to retrain themselves at any time, if they want to, to continue learning. They need to be taught at least one foreign language. There is no chance of this in multi-based vocational training deprived of public knowledge. The reduction of high school seats also clearly reduces opportunities for higher education. The student protests scared them of the immediate reduction of higher education, so they seem to be using other means. Less high school students mean that only the narrow elite really have the opportunity to study. The leaders of Hungary want fewer high school students, while everyone from Viktor Orbán to László Parragh went to high school and university, and even obtained a doctoral title. Socialism had only a few privileges, but they want this condition to return in the future. Today, Hungary's leaders say that there should be more two-handed workers while visiting their children studying in foreign elite private schools with millions of tuition fees. The vision of a work-based society doesn't fit the foundation schools either. [[13.40]] Now, we may have withdrawn a proposal equivalent to the closure of foundation schools, but we still don't know what will happen to them in the future. The Negotiation Initiative of the State Secretary for Public Education, I quote? the future role of foundation schools in the Hungarian public education system sounds rather threatening. Foundation schools know exactly what they're doing, just leave them alone. This time, the government may have lost control and spared the foundation schools, but it does not improve the totally wrong direction of education policy. The May Other is trying to prevent, or at least slow down, knowledge-cutting steps towards a work-based society by grabbing all opposition instruments. We would also like to show in the future that there is another way, but the knowledge society is the future of Hungary.
u2014-11-10-14	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-10-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What contradicts the Members' statements is the 2015 budget and the figures that we have planned for this, because in all areas that you have criticised, the next year's budget will spend more than the previous year's. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: For what?]] Consider, for example, the value of total public education: instead of an earlier HUF 665 billion item, there is HUF 711 billion. You say that the government wants to take a step backwards in secondary education; instead of HUF 196 billion, Hungary spends HUF 209 billion in next year's budget on secondary education. Which means higher education, and which clearly contradicts what you have said: 7 billion HUF more in the future than ever, 143 billion HUF is included in the budget. There is therefore a rise in resources in all areas. You asked the most about the high-tech part, and you drew attention to developing research and the importance of innovation in your speech before the agenda. Let me draw your attention to a new line in the budget: the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, where all EU funds will amount to HUF 100 billion, a sum of HUF 70 to 80 billion from national sources, and which will be led by President Pálinkás, a scientist who, by you, I believe, will undoubtedly consider to be an international authority, he will guard over this spending and set the right direction for him. So at all levels in the system of public education, at primary school level, at secondary level and at higher education level, we spend much more precisely to increase everyone's knowledge. But one can even withdraw from this, honourable Member, because that is why we are creating 4 000 new kindergarten seats this year, because we believe that many of them, at the age of six, when they enter school on the first day of school, are already at a disadvantage compared to their classmates. That's why from the age of three, we introduced compulsory kindergarten training to overcome precisely these disadvantages at the age of 3-4-5-6, and when someone gets to school, not to be at a disadvantage in terms of skills, knowledge and competence compared to other students. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: It's just lyrics!]] who may have been born in a more affluent family as children of parents with a higher education degree. The state spends much more on this segment even before school in order to give everyone the opportunity to start the first class as an equal with the others. This is also behind the fact that schools have become state-owned, since the capacity of municipalities does not depend on the payment of wages and the costs of school maintenance. And you know very well that in the next year's budget there is HUF 50 billion more in the budget for KLIK than it was in the previous year; even because we raised KLIK's budget during the year, and we will add in the following year that education and schools have all the forints we need. In addition, we give textbooks free of charge to schoolchildren, to everyone in the class, in more and more classes, now in a system that goes up. This was also the purpose of the creation of a public textbook publisher so that the state could give high quality textbooks to everyone. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Poor quality, waste!]] And obviously there is also a need - not just for easy access and good quality textbooks? For teachers to go to students with the best possible skills [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Children are being delivered!]] And then, if you're a good teacher, you can keep the school, the teaching field. That is why we started the teaching career in public education, so we increased the pay of teachers: in September, January 1th, the pay of teachers increased again on September 1st this year, and in next year it is also growing. Obviously, the person who gives up his portfolio, who goes on in his own teaching profession, can expect an extra fee of up to 30-40 thousand forints from next year. That is precisely because, if we take seriously, honourable Member, the work of educators, if we take seriously the need to educate our children in a good quality, then it is not the socialist way to take away the 13th month's wage, but a career for educators, and with the more well-paid pedagogue careers, teachers will have to teach children. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Stop the KLIK!]] It is equally important in the field of higher education. You know very well, Mr President, that there has been an increase in the number of higher education students compared to last year, from 72 679 to 73 973, so there has been an increase in the number of higher education students. We have introduced the chancellor system precisely to ensure the financial security of these higher education courses, and the economic stability of universities. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So, Congressman, from the age of three to secondary or higher education, we offer a much greater opportunity for a young person today [[The president's ringing again.]] as you would have had five years ago. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. ? Ágnes Kunhalmi: The possibilities are limited in everything!]]
u2014-11-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The president of the Fidesz Group, Mr Antal Rogán, also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title of accountability of banks and the forinting of foreign currency loans. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There really are matters of interest to Hungarian families today, such as the accounting of banks and the forinting of foreign currency loans, and there is a case in Hungarian public life, the issue of US bans, which may be less interested in Hungarian families, but? Looks like it? the more interested journalists are in shaping public opinion. Given that there has been a substantial new event in this matter this morning, allow the Honourable Parliament to address this first in front of you. This morning, 10:00 a.m.? Do we know that from the press? The president of the NAV, Ildikó Vida, accompanied by cameras, visited the U.S. embassy, asked for a meeting with the U.S. attorney and his co-workers. He's accused of corruption, asked to be made known to him on what grounds they're doing this. Ladies and gentlemen, For nearly an hour, he had the opportunity to speak to the American agent and his colleagues, and neither the American agent nor his colleagues could say anything. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of all this, I believe that Mr Goodfriend, the United States' agent, has today become involved in the problem of credibility. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Americans lie.]] Ladies and gentlemen, On October 21, Mr Goodfriend, the U.S. Attorney, said the following very precisely: "We did not make a decision based on what was read in the press. We have decided to ask ourselves who there is solid evidence to enforce the law. After that, my fellow Members, we have seen that these certain solid facts and evidence have not been told to the Hungarian government, have they not told the Hungarian public, have they not told us? Did he ask for it? the National Security Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, not even in a closed session, has been referred to all along to the fact that they can only tell the parties concerned. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the people concerned have not been able to say this today either. Based on this? Since they didn't say that to the public, they didn't say that to the government, they didn't say that to Parliament, and they didn't say that to the people involved? We must think, ladies and gentlemen, that there really are no such specifics. I think that we all need to say that Hungary is not Guantánamo, here we cannot accuse anyone without evidence, we cannot accuse without concrete facts and evidence. Today, the U.S. agent has not proved to be a credible man, he has not been able to keep his earlier claims. I think it is time, ladies and gentlemen, that the United States of America sent an ambassador to Hungary, by the way? Instead of a temporary agent? who is truly able to represent the interests of the United States of America in Hungary with sufficient weight, with sufficient foundation. [[Sándor Burány: Let us not declare war.]] Ladies and gentlemen, So much for the disbarment case. The Hungarian families may be more interested in the accounting of banks and the forinting of foreign currency loans. In recent months, following the decision of the Curia, the Hungarian Parliament? I guess it's okay for me to say it? has made historic decisions that the entire Hungarian banking system will be accounted for, accounted for for, for nearly ten years for each loan raised by private individuals: HUF 1000 billion will be returned in 2015 to Hungarian individuals after housing loans, after car loans, after consumer loans, after foreign exchange and forint loans. [[13.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, As a result, in 2015 the interest and repayment of an average foreign exchange loaner will be reduced by 30 percent. Next week, the Hungarian Parliament will be faced with a law that states that we can guarantee these 30 percent cutbacks and interest rates for the long term. We guarantee that, under the Fair Banking Act, we will ban interest increases, increases in costs and increases in fees for years. And we guarantee that, since there will be no foreign exchange credit as of 1 January 2016, foreign exchange loans will be HUFed, so the exchange rate risk will also be eliminated. Thus, from 1 January 2016, people who pay foreign exchange loans today can calculate a 30% lower interest rate and repayments, a loss of exchange rate risk and a stable interest rate forint loan. This is an important decision, so we ask the government to submit this bill to Parliament as soon as possible and Parliament to discuss and accept it as quickly as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-18	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2014-11-10-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, If you'll allow me, I'd rather deal with the issue that concerns Hungarian families, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, over a million people, because this is basically one of Hungary's most serious social problems for more than ten years. Let's go back a little bit in history. Let us not forget how this came about, because since 2004 the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government basically caused this problem for Hungarian families when it stopped the preferential housing loan, which was introduced by the Fidesz government, and instead allowed hundreds of thousands of families to be indebted to foreign currency, taking on foreign currency loans. The rate of foreign exchange lending increased about 140 times during these two socialist governments. In 2010, at the time of the change of government, the Orbán government took its first step in stopping people from being indebted to foreign currency and recognising the serious social problem, trying to help people with various decisions, various measures, the institution of end-payment, the creation of entry into the exchange rate barrier. Now another moment has come when we close the issue of foreign exchange loans, because in 2016 in Hungary, if the individual wants to do so, the form of foreign currency credit as a form of credit will cease. It is very important that the forinting takes place, which is a national economic interest. From a consumer point of view, it is in the national economic interest to spend the resources that will be released due to less loan repayment on consumption and thus stimulate economic growth. But it is very important to reduce the foreign exchange exposure of the Hungarian economy, as this is also a condition for increasing employment. And it is very important to create a new, fair banking system, because if banks cease to have this kind of obligation in foreign currency, they can develop a new credit theory, a new lending practice in Hungary, we can actually get back to normal. But most importantly, the institution of forintation is in the interest of the client, because the results that we have achieved now, in one way or another, with the end-payment, the exchange rate barrier or the settlement, which will affect customers in a way that closes the final court proceedings, are very important to protect these results by ensuring that their credit is not maintained in foreign currency and is a significant risk to exchange rate change. Therefore, it is very important to switch to HUF loans. Of course, we need law to do that. This law, along with the Fair Bank Act, will be brought before the National Assembly. In this regard, it must be said that the Curia has a very important decision to make when it states that, for this type of contract, the debtor is indebted to the foreign currency at a rate more favourable than the forint loan during that period, which results in him bearing the effects of the exchange rate change, the weakening of the forint results in an increase in the debtor's payment burden and a decrease in his strength. Therefore, the Curia's decision clearly states that the borrower must bear the risk of the exchange rate gap. Therefore, according to the agreement of the Ministry of National Economy and the Banking Association, the forinting will take place at market value and on the basis of its average value, depending on which will be more favourable to the client. This should serve Hungary's long-term economic interests, the country's financial liquidity balance. So, overall, the economic benefits that have been paid to foreign exchange lenders cannot be more favourable than those who have been indebted in HUF in Hungary, and the benefits that we have provided in the law can continue to be maintained by HUFing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-20	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-11-10-21	Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Árpád Velez, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: László Szászfalvi, KDNP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; László Varga, MSZP; János Volner, Jobbik; István Németh Szilárd, Fidesz. He applied for a speech after the agenda tomorrow: Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2014-11-10-22	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. István Tiba to explain this.
u2014-11-10-23	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. As of 1 November 2014, I appointed András Giró-Szász as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office. Budapest, 31 October 2014 Sincerely: János Áder
u2014-11-10-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish you successful work and success in the work of the Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, Before the meeting, the House Committee held a meeting, where no agreement was reached on T/1929. Bill No.3 on the derogation from house rules, which is why the proposal is presented to the Parliament in presidential power. In this, the vice-president of the Parliament proposes that the general debate on the bill amending certain laws on judicial and private law be held at this meeting and that the final vote can take place next week. Motion T/1929/2. can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. [[14.00]] So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1929/2 contributes to the departure from the house rules. As per Motion No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the derogation from the house rule by 143 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the proposal will take place tomorrow, following the votes, as a third item on the agenda, in accordance with the Government's motion. Dear Parliament, By submitting the necessary signatures, the author initiated that the National Assembly was the T/1919. Take a decision on the urgent hearing of the bill No. 1. Under the proposal, the general discussion of the bill amending the laws concerning certain municipalities will take place at this meeting. Mr. István Tiba, please describe the T/1919-4. Urgent proposal No. 1.
u2014-11-10-25	Dear Parliament, The rapporteur proposed that the general debate on the bill be held on this day by the end of the day. For the purposes of the related Commission announcements, the committees may meet today during the meeting of the Parliament. An amending proposal should be possible today, pending the conclusion of the general debate. The detailed discussion phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. In order to hold a detailed discussion, the negotiating committee may meet during the session of Parliament and on the first day of the sitting before the opening of the sitting. The Legislative Committee, after receiving the national information, but still the House Rule 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2014-11-10-26	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, At the same time as the urgent hearing was initiated, the rapporteur proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of the bill by adding T/1328 to the general debate until the conclusion today. It shall take place after a second reading of the bill No. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, is T/1919 going to be discussed urgently? a proposal with a serial number, together with the date of the general debate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 126 votes in favour, 49 votes against, and without abstention, the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Now, at 2:04 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, acting as a deputy of the Speaker of Parliament, the House Rules of Decision 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Under the authority extended by paragraph 1 of Rule 1 of this Act, Congresswoman Márta Demeter K/1741. I rejected your written question with a serial number because the motion does not fall within the mandate of Mr Szijjártó Péter, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. When will he propose the appointment of the new president of the NAV? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-11-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ildikó Vida, head of the National Tax and Customs Office, made a partial confession last week, admitting that he was on the list whose entry was restricted by the United States, also admitted that several officials of the NAV were on this list and admitted that he had indicated this to the government immediately when he heard about it. This proved that in recent weeks you have lied to our eyes and not only to our eyes but also to the eyes of Hungarian voters, as we have been able to hear Minister Mihály Varga say that he has not received any notice, we have heard the statement of Minister János Lázár, head of the Prime Minister's Office, that he has placed the socialist faction in a spy novel, and that he has put us in the position of US agents by accusing many civil servants. He was involved in a lie, as Ildikó Vida proved himself on this list, but we could talk about L. Simon László's statement that this notification was misplaced in the mail. Who's on this list? Allow me to quote: those who have credible information that these individuals are involved in or benefit from acts of corruption. Ildikó Vida also admitted that in 2011-2012 nearly HUF 1000 billion was not included in the budget as a result of VAT fraud, and he proudly announced that it was only HUF 900 million in 2013. He admitted that the withdrawal measures that you are introducing in the next few weeks on the budget, which we are discussing, and the tax increases are also necessary because this tax revenue is not coming in. So he admitted that this revenue does not increase the Hungarian budget by nearly HUF 1000 billion per year, 3% of GDP. Here is the question that Minister Mihály Varga has asked what is wrong with Vida Ildiko. The problem with Ildiko Vida is: VAT revenue of HUF 1000 billion does not go into the budget. The problem is that he went into hiding, traveled abroad, and didn't give an account of the charge that affected his person, but several weeks later, he told your lie in an interview that he was involved in this case. This in itself proves his inadequacy, so we ask the Minister to initiate the acquittal of Ildikó Vida. Let us not forget that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is the one who has the right to appoint me. I ask how far the National Tax and Customs Office is controlled by people who have been charged with corruption, against whom other countries have also ordered executable law enforcement measures. Really the impartial and independent [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Does Vida wish to entrust Ildikó Vida with the investigation of his own case? I ask you, when are you suggesting that Vida Ildikó be acquitted? Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-11-10-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If I understand the interpellation correctly, because that wasn't exactly what was written in the text, then the problem with Ildiko Vida is not that he's on the list of the banned. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Yes! It's bad enough.]] But if I understand correctly, the problem is that you're doing your job wrong. That's another question, but that's what you're going to say. By the way, if you'll allow me, I would first like to outline the legal situation in this case, because the US President has a so-called proclamation number 7750, which is a regulation. There is no court order or investigative record required for the application of this. It's enough for the U.S. State Department to find the evidence conclusive. The data subject himself is not aware that his identity has been investigated. You can't defend yourself against the charges you've brought. The U.S. government doesn't want his position in the process. This may be in line with the laws in force. I believe that, without evidence, without knowledge of specific corruption charges, it is in no way a fair procedure in Hungary. [[14.10]] But further looking at the legal situation and complicating it, for example, the manager, Goodfriend, said about the case that certain cases of the banned are exhausting the criteria set out in Presidential Decree 7750 that prohibit the entry into the United States of America of persons who have been involved in corruption cases. Visa restrictions have nothing to do with policy, but only to the persons concerned, to individual actions. As far as the procedure is concerned, so the process is absolutely non-public, non-public, there are no hearings, there is no notification of their name in a corruption case, so they can't defend themselves from it, they can't even comment on it at all. It is very important that the decision does not require official investigation results, investigations, judicial decisions, it is enough to call it so-called conclusive evidence at the US State Department. The situation is very interesting, because this decision is for private individuals, there is no appeal against it, and at the same time this person can enter the United States on official business, so Ildikó Vida can still work and enter the United States on official matters, tax matters and the tax administration's representative to this day. We think it's very important to label someone without any specific accusations. I believe that the MSZP applies double standards in this case. Allow me to tell you a story about you, because in 2009, you were the head of the government of Pécs, and at that time a contract that the then member of the fb said you knew about was nullified by the court and declared it a good moral violation by the court, causing hundreds of millions of dollars of damage to the company concerned. You didn't give up your role in public life. You didn't even think about doing that. But you could do the same? If you turn around? He was also questioned as a suspect by the Hungarian authorities because of a well-founded suspicion of bribery. However, you do not tell Dezső Impressive to resign, and here Hungarian authorities have made concrete accusations about you and Dezső Impressive. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Shame!]] First, account for yourself and then accuse yourself of a man who is not accused of any corruption by any Hungarian authority. But if you do, tell me now, please. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-10-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, [[Complaining from the ranks of Fidesz: Cancel!]] You are in grave error, and, if you allow me, let me serve as a personal example to Ildikó Vida, you and Minister Mihály Varga: in June 2009, I gave up my post as deputy mayor. [[Interview from Fidesz: Now, now!]] If you follow my example, although no one has accused me, I have not participated in any court proceedings [[Uproar, interruptions.]] So if I can set an example, then go ahead and do the same. There's a development of corruption management, this is the organization, this is the structure that's going on right in front of our eyes. Tens of thousands of people are demanding that Ildikó Vida leave his post, and you continue to polish, lie, point back. Count on the thousand billion forints that do not go into the Hungarian budget every year, and Ildikó Vida should resign from his presidency. [[An uproar from the Fidesz ranks.]] If you do not do so, please initiate with Viktor Orbán and replace the President of the NAV. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-32	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the Parliament if they'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes to 44, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - Can the government deal with the health crisis associated with the rapid spread of the Ebola virus? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President, has the floor.
u2014-11-10-33	Dear House, Mr President, The West African Ebola epidemic in 2014 has been the most serious infection in both diseases and victims since the identification of the virus in 1976. Sadly, this time, the Ebola fever did not stop in Africa, and Europe also raised its head and claimed death. In connection with the Ebola virus, the government swept its responsibility under the carpet with easy words in the field of preventive screening measures, saying that Hungary is not in danger, so there is no need for any precautions. Mr Gábor Sombor, State Secretary for Health, said that the European Union is taking this issue as a priority, but the government is still trying to deal with the situation with pretense measures. It is unacceptable that our strategy for disease is based on what we should be doing if it is already knocking at the door instead of focusing on preventing the problem. With the abolition of borders, illegal immigration and transit status, the spread of the virus is a real threat. In particular, it is estimated that by the beginning of next year, the number of cases of Ebola virus spreading at incredible speed will amount to one and a half million people. Illegal immigrants from the southeast border section are also a serious threat. They may be infected among non-rare groups of 80-100 people near Mórahalom and Asotthalom, as in many cases some of the offenders come from the areas most affected by the virus. In addition, illegal immigrants are free to move in and out of reception stations. The border guards are theoretically prepared to meet immigrants infected with the Ebola virus. But what, I'm asking, are border guards noticing, still hiding with illegal immigrants on the run? Near us, in the Czech Republic, they already realized that it was better to be safe than to be afraid, so filter precautions were introduced at their airports and several military hospitals were put on standby to prevent a possible epidemic. In conclusion, the question would be: why has the government not taken any effective measures against the disease in order to protect the Hungarian population? And, for the future, does the government plan to introduce permanent screening at the high-risk points? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-34	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-10-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I understand your concern about the safety of Hungarian citizens, but I can assure you that the Ebola virus remains a very low risk to Hungary, fortunately. The National Chief Medical Office is constantly monitoring the changes of the epidemic on the basis of reports from the World Health Organisation, the WHO and the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and is in constant contact with the European Union Health Safety Committee and all international bodies with which it is necessary. In the field of prevention, Hungary has provided 22,000 pairs of rubber gloves, a thousand pairs of rubber boots, 500 medical goggles, 500 protective cloaks and a single-use device worth $5,000 to prevent the spread of the virus in West Africa, for example. In addition, we are prepared for the possibility that a person travelling to Hungary has caught the Ebola virus infection and arrives infected or sick. The National Chief Medical Office issued a circular on 13 August 2014 regarding the risk of possible Ebola virus infection and the necessary measures. The change in the epidemiological situation and the new case definition issued by the European Centre for Disease Control made it necessary to update the procedures on 12 September and a new circular was issued on 8 October to clarify the tasks. It has also been ordered that the public health administration bodies of the county and capital government offices in their area of competence are to verify whether the actual care providers, in particular medical services, workers of emergency and infectological departments in hospitals, are aware of this published procedure. Higher education students arriving in Hungary from countries affected by the Ebola fever epidemic also reduced the risk of introduction, as most of the students arrived more than three weeks ago and the incubation period is 21 days. [[14.20]] Students are no longer a threat because this incubation period is over. We have compiled questionnaires in Hungarian and English for the universities concerned, which are of great help in assessing possible risks. In order to reduce the spread of the epidemic, WHO has introduced screening of travellers from the countries concerned, which is ongoing and identified ebolalase contacts should not take part in international travel. At the same time, WHO does not recommend screening entry travellers for destination countries, given the 21-day long incubation period. However, it is important to note that during the incubation period, the infected person does not make others ill. The chances of an infected person leaving the affected African territory in a legal but unmedically controlled framework are very low and may come to the territory of Hungary. I would like to reassure the Member that the health services are well prepared to deal with possible domestic cases, and that there is sufficient preparedness for illegal migrants to prevent a possible domestic infection. I ask you, honourable Member, to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-11-10-37	Mr President, I can't accept the answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I just told you how fast the Ebola is spreading. In the middle of the summer, he was as sick as he is now. Three months from now, the number of people infected by the Ebola virus will be back up to one million four hundred thousand. Do you think this will not ring into Hungary? Yes, you can. In Serbia, the Czech Republic, Germany, just to talk about the surrounding countries, the Ebola virus has already appeared. Do not wait for the Ebola virus to appear in Hungary! I didn't get any answers to my question about screening for illegal immigrants. The 200-300 people who come into Hungary across borders and are caught because a significant part of them are not being captured must be quarantined for a certain period of time and must be screened. Do not think, fellow Members, that this great epidemic will not affect you, or your family, if that is the case. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] We are asking the government for more decisive measures to prevent this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-10-38	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes to 37, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Szél Bernadett, representatives of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2014-11-10-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A week ago, you said that even if it was the same, I should not deviate from the text, so, if you will allow me, I will read the text of the interpellation. Dear Minister, At the moment, in Hungary, it seems that the control authorities are not pursuing corruption-related fraudsters and their collaborators effectively enough. They are either powerless to them or consciously favor them. It can also be observed that, in the course of public decision-making, the public interest is wholly or partly crowded out by the government's political interests or other private interests. Thus, public institutions are no longer solely in the public interest. More and more people are calling attention to the fact that something is wrong in the Hungarian tax administration's house. While small and medium-sized enterprises are known to be affected by the Hungarian tax authority, there are more and more checks being carried out by small companies, deposit companies and self-employed persons, in November last year a former tax authority worker accused the NAV that there was an abuse of office because he considered it to turn a blind eye to the tax evasion of large companies. Despite the LMP's request, the charges remain unsolved. Steps have now been taken by the United States, which raise the interest of the Hungarian tax administration in corruption. The Hungarian government is currently busy covering up responsibility, and for some reason the prosecutor's office is doing nothing to clarify what has happened. As it has already been revealed, a central budgetary body, the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development, discovered a year ago that its senior officials were collaborating with fraudsters. To date, false-containing area aid applications are still being investigated for a legitimate suspicion of a misdemeanour of a felony. Four people, including one of the heads of the rural development office, have been taken into custody and are suspected of 60 people. What is the guarantee that, like the MVH, the NAV has not been infected with corruption? According to common sense rules, the suspicion that the NAV is a hotbed of corruption with the MVH should be removed as soon as possible. This cannot be done if the president of the NAV, who is suspected, goes on vacation, does not stand in front of the cameras and avoids questions. With VAT fraud, hundreds of billions of people are cheated from public funds every year, causing job losses. VAT fraud and the black economy are causing significant economic damage, including for food companies, resulting in job losses and investment losses. Let's get this straight about the hundred billion-dollar VAT shortage and the theft of public funds. Will the government finally declare war on government corruption and VAT fraud? If so, the government and the prosecution must immediately investigate the corruption charges made by András Horváth and the United States. Now, when the budget is adopted, the government can decide whether to take more money from people, or rather to take money from corruption. LMP requests the latter from the government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] and suggest it to your attention. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-11-10-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start by saying that there are some false statements in your interpellation. I would like to highlight two of these. One is that the Hungarian government is small and medium-sized enterprises? Is that what you're saying? He's known for it. In contrast to this, we have developed a tax system that is more favourable to the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise, we have abolished more than ten small taxes, and, for example, the corporate tax rate for the tax base of HUF 500 million has decreased by 10 percent. This is unique in Europe, and many people envy Hungary for this rate. He says: . now steps have been taken by the United States, which raise the involvement of the Hungarian tax authority in corruption. That's not what I'm talking about. To date, the United States has not provided any documentation or evidence to the Hungarian government, the Hungarian authorities, despite requests. The case of the president of the IRS? Did I just say it in the previous interpellation? It's not an official matter, it's an individual's disbarment case. I have just proved that, for example, Ildikó Vida, representing the tax authority, can still travel to the United States. I believe that what you have said about corruption in relation to the MVH proves that the government is fighting and performing effectively against corruption, because, for example, in the case of the MVH, the Hungarian State has not suffered any damage, the crime has already been found, and those who have committed it are now in the process. So you just proved by the example that there is an effective fight against corruption. As far as this certain former Apeh worker is concerned, to which the opposition is pleased to refer, he is called András Horváth. The vice-president of the APEH said that he had never participated in any revisori work, since he did not have such qualifications, qualifications and, moreover, because of his work, his official relations with the tax authority had ceased. But he says that as a party secretary, my father was a kind of opposition man, he stood up for the truth, and I have it genetically. So this is what he refers to, when he attacks the tax authority without any specifics, essentially attacking the government by saying that the tax authority is not doing its job properly. To date, this person, who worked for the tax authority, has not made one particular case public and has not submitted one specific case to the tax authority. As regards the case of VAT and Hungary's relationship, I believe that Hungary has nothing to be ashamed of, because according to a European Commission study published on 23 October, Hungary is in the middle field with Poland, while, say, Slovakia and Romania have worse indicators than Hungary. For example, this indicator deteriorated by 6 percent in Slovakia last year, while it improved in Hungary. [[14.30]] The Hungarian government and the tax administration will continue to do everything in their power to properly collect taxes. With regard to VAT collection, the exchange of already implemented online cash registers, the trade control system for freight transporters to be introduced next year [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] will help make tax collection and VAT collection even more effective in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-11-10-43	Mr President, Unfortunately, that's impossible, because that can't be accepted. Mr. Secretary, you started by saying that I was wrong on the question of interpellation. I'm telling you, he's made false claims. He says that SMEs are known to be supported by the government. It was not a tax system; it was said that in the course of control activities, a multitude of SMEs were affected by continuous tax control, while the taxpayers were not affected either by a review or otherwise. That's what I'm talking about. Two, you claim, Mr Secretary, that the United States has given nothing to the government. Indeed, however, they offered to release the data without further ado, but they should go to the embassy to receive it. But he won't do it. .......................................................................................................................................... [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties, including, "He's gone in." ? You're not up to date.]] The data could be made public. [[Noise.]] In the case of the MVH... [[To intervene:]] I don't read the papers. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] In the case of MVH, he says that there was no damage to the Hungarian government. A week ago, you said the investigation wasn't over yet, so how did you know that? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The APEH's gone.
u2014-11-10-44	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 41, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, What has the government achieved with its family-friendly actions, and what are the future plans? It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi.
u2014-11-10-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Thanks to the transformation of the tax system, nearly HUF 185 billion more income remained in 2013 than some 950 thousand Hungarian families. In view of the 270,000 Hungarian families? Low income, more children? Last year, he was not yet able to make full use of the family tax reduction, so from this year onwards, the tax benefit can be deducted from the social security contribution. Thus, the livelihood of nearly 270 thousand families has become easier by using a total tax reduction of HUF 230 billion per year. This meant a net income increase of HUF 16,000 for a parent earning a minimum wage and raising three children. An important family support measure was the extra introduction of the child, helping young children in every life situation. It doubles, triples the family's income, and that's a real breakthrough. Furthermore, the employment of women raising young children has been supported by significant tax incentives by the job protection action, which has helped the employment of more than 40,000 mothers. The aim of Fidesz and KDNP is to have as many children as possible in Hungary, which, according to surveys, coincides with the plans of young people founding the family, as the respondents want more than two children. Unfortunately, the fact is that by the time they have a child, this statistical number will be 1.3, so 1.3 children will be born according to the statistics, so childbearing should continue to be supported. The Hungarian family support system is already very favourable in European comparison and is also available to fathers. This means that families can decide that children's leave is not only taken by one parent, but also by both parents and fathers for two months after the child's birth. The provision of the new baby bond is already chosen by one in five parents. It should also be mentioned that we are also helping to set up a family with a preferential home creation programme. The main objective of the 2014 Tax Act was to strengthen and support families, and the main objective of the 2015 Tax Laws was to strengthen and extend this work. In this tax package, three very important measures directly help families with children: tax relief for first-married couples, double family tax incentives and support for part-time families. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] My question, Mr Secretary of State, is what kind of family support measures are still to be taken in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-46	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-10-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, as you said, the government's goal is to have a child, where the state does not create obstacles, but to provide help. Do not report the commitment of a child to a lower standard of living in an economic, financial sense, but the state should try to compensate as many cases as possible for parents who want to have children in the interest of the child. Therefore, if we look at the 2015 budget, we see that there is much more money in it for family support, a HUF 208 billion higher than if we look at, say, an earlier 2010 budget. And if you look at the overall period until the end of 2010-14, the additional support that the families received was HUF 670 billion compared to what they had obtained in the previous period. If we project this on a family, let's say this year, then this year a family, an average Hungarian family, manages 20,000 forints more than before, the state withdraws 20 thousand forints less from families as personal income tax in the family-type tax system, either due to tax incentives or tax benefits, as the then government did four years ago under the tax laws. This was necessary because the population indicators in Hungary were at a low level in 2010, the ratio that reached a couple was 1.23, the number of children born, but we have managed to turn this around in the past. This year, the number of live births increased by 3 percent in the first eight months, the number of marriages decreased by 3.6 percent, the number of deaths or the number of abortions made in a joyful manner. This rate is now thousands better, and the rate of population loss has decreased by thousands than before. As you mentioned at the end of your interpellation, the government decided to continue this support programme, continue supporting, strengthening and helping Hungarian families, and in the next five years it decided to pursue a new population policy plan worth HUF 200 billion, some of which appear either in the fiscal law or in the tax laws. You yourself pointed out that the system of family-type tax incentives now extends from marriage to young couples. They can have a personal income tax discount of HUF 5 000 for two years from the date of marriage. In the event that they have a child together, from the third month after the child is conceived, a double-sum family tax allowance for the first child will be granted. It is very important for the birth of third children to have second children, and for the third child, the current tax relief rate is extremely high. There's a big jump after the first two with the third kid. We are now trying to increase this tax relief for the second children, so in the coming years, from 2016 to 2019 the family tax relief will increase by 5-5 thousand HUF per year after the second child, so it will be 40,000 HUF for this family tax relief scheme. So, instead of HUF 237 billion this year, by 2019, until this program runs, we will be spending HUF 300 billion, to be more precise: this is what we leave with the families, the working Hungarian families. To improve housing conditions, we are launching families' home-building benefits, which is perhaps the most important, this is the extension of the Socpol, if I want to say by its name. This can be used not only for the construction, purchase of new apartments, but also for the purchase and expansion of used apartments. [[14.40]] In 2015, 5 thousand families are expected to benefit from this. There are HUF 4 billion in next year's budget, and it is planned to amount to HUF 10 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] My time was over, but did the government decide on a number of measures even in relation to the placement of part-time workers or young children? But we'll talk about this next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-11-10-49	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, You're both here? Secretary of State and I? We have been struggling to comply with the time frame, which is due to the fact that we can list so many positive family policy measures that there was little time available for this. I think it's talkative in itself. I accept Mr State Secretary's reply, because our very important goal is to improve the demographic situation. One of the tools for this is the tax system, the family tax system. And did the Secretary of State report on the population action? Is it a plan? There will be further legislative amendments that will be brought before Parliament. So I accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-50	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they create a deliberate knowledge crisis? It's an address. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2014-11-10-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Knowledge is the key to Hungary's rise. The question is whether Hungary will be able to participate in the European system of knowledge-based societies and knowledge-based economies. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP: That's right.]] The future of Hungary depends more on knowledge than on money. These are the words of today's Prime Minister of Hungary from 2008. Your budget proposal, which has been submitted, goes radically against that. Numbers don't lie. The fact is that you are reducing the amount of secondary education by 24 percent. If this is achieved, education can only continue with this amount of money in Hungary if high schools are closed, classes are reduced, children are squeezed out of the school system and teachers are dismissed by mass. Less high school students, less college students and less college students. They are being squeezed into a vocational training programme that is further silly to make it even cheaper. With this decision, you will make it clear that everyone in Hungary does not have the right to know. Some people are worth less, and the government says they're gonna be okay uneducated. This budget will be a budget for the knowledge crisis. It causes our country a global knowledge crisis that can barely be resolved in decades. The country will fall behind, we will have a lasting economic break, a low standard of living. Those of you who are being pushed out of the world of knowledge today will be poor in themselves, who would undertake, invest, develop, and not find a workforce capable of competitive production or service in the world. This will be the end of the circle. Just so we're clear, half of today's elementary school kids don't fit into high school. Do I understand that the kids in the benches of Fidesz are going to be admitted to high school today? But they're gonna get their sidekicks, too? You really want to vote for a budget that will result in hundreds of thousands of children and their families [[An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] They're gonna take away the chance of ascension? I ask you, Mr Secretary of State: what would it take for you and you to understand this world, to realise that only quality, developing knowledge can restore Hungary and Europe? If they're still familiar with that word? competitiveness? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-10-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-10-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, There was a sentence in your speech that I could agree with, and I wrote to myself: the numbers do not lie. Then you said that this government spends 24 percent less on secondary education next year than it did this year. Well, this year we spend 196 billion forints on secondary education. In next year's budget, we spend 209 billion forints compared to 196 this year. That is, by my modest calculations, 13 billion forints more. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why is this not written in the budget? That's what you should put in the budget.]] It's a mathematical mystery to me that if we spend 13 billion more on secondary education, the MSZP for whom numbers don't lie - and that's true, the numbers don't lie, but someone will have to in this formula [[Agnes Kunhalmi: You're wrong! You said the wrong thing!]] ? So you're decoding 13 billion forints more funding so that it's a 24 percent reduction in support, because they say that we're basically taking every fourth forint away from secondary education. That is not the case, honourable Member. It's not the numbers that lie, it's the people who speak up in the name of the MSZP, and they claim these untruths. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What a jerk you are!]] As we spend 196 HUF 209 billion this year next year, much more on secondary education next year than this year; but as has already been said today, this is no different in higher education: we spend 7 billion HUF more there, so we have 143 billion HUF in total. In fact, there is a huge increase in resources here, as with the extension of the corporate tax benefit system, there is also a huge increase in resources for higher education institutions in higher education. In addition, this type of interconnection will bring exactly those companies closer to universities and colleges where students who study at universities and colleges will be able to work. Overall, we spend HUF 711 billion instead of HUF 655 billion on the entire public education system. You know very well that the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center has 20 billion more in next year's budget than this year. So I only ask you to acknowledge in your reply that next year Hungary will spend more on secondary education, primary education and higher education than it has spent this year. So next year, 209 will be more than 196 this year. But I could also tell you what has been said here in this House many times, that by strengthening the vocational training system, we do not want to discourage anyone from the high school benches at all. This is the decision of one person: it is the decision of a student who obviously discusses with his parents that he wants to go to vocational school or go to high school. If you go to high school, you will obviously have the opportunity to go to higher education and university; but in the same way, if you go to vocational training, you will not be able to exclude this possibility, and you will also be able to continue to study. It's just, dear Congresswoman, there are a lot of people whose parents are not university graduates, but who have been unemployed for years or decades, even untrained. Their work is encouraged by this government in many ways, but we want their children to have some kind of skills, and for them, for example, the acquisition of a qualification against unemployment is a step forward. Everybody step forward. Get better knowledge, more valuable knowledge than your parents have, if that's what you're capable of. I'm sure the state will support that. For those who are the most at the forefront of innovation, as has already been said today, next year's budget includes HUF 70-80 billion, which will be complemented by HUF 100 billion of EU funds in the area of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, who will also contribute to the funding of PhD Scholarships. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If the numbers don't lie, please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But you do! ? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-10-55	Well, I can't really accept it. Secretary of State, knowledge is really important, because you've been talking about higher education all along, while I was talking about public education. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: 143, that's 209! ? An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] But how do you explain this... [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches.]] ? I've got one minute. Just wait and see. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] How do they explain that if someone wants to learn a profession for himself, they may not go in; because the debate we have with each other is unworthy. They're talking nonsense! Today, public education, education, does not have structural problems, but the fact that until the age of 14, simply until the end of the eight primary schools, children come out of school on functional illiterates, they do not learn to read, read, count! You have strayed from the modernisation path that has been held by right- and left-wing governments since the change of regime! [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches. ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: We are not on the road to school closures! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Listen to him.]] Return to him. That's the problem. And give me better numbers, please, next time.
u2014-11-10-56	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 115 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstention, the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. In a few months, would their relationship with the European Union have changed, or would their statements merely serve as a political gain? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Since the establishment of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, he has expressed the view that Hungary's participation in the European Union can only be achieved on the basis of a joint agreement of equal parties which is equally beneficial to the parties. Unfortunately, the governments of the previous years did not take this principle into account, and Hungary's involvement in the European Union has had disproportionate negative consequences for Hungarian people and businesses. We have also often said that we are not talking about immediate withdrawal, but about the renegotiation of conditions, the conditions, the paragraphs, the passages and contracts that adversely affect Hungary. We have also repeatedly said that we do not support, however, the Europe of nations, the European united states that we want to form in the model of the United States of America, and that this should not be decided by the policy, but that there should be a referendum and a decision by the people; also because, as everyone knows, since accession, we have served our markets, our financial system, our factories, and most recently we have served our productive land to the speculative capital abroad. In contrast to these harmful processes Jobbik has always consistently stood up and worked to protect real Hungarian interests. These efforts have brought us to the crossfire of sharp and innocuous attacks, not only from the successor parties of the party-state dictatorship, but often from your direction as well. Please allow me to remind you of the Prime Minister's words after his oath to the Prime Minister in May, and I quote: "But I will also consider the programme of exiting the European Union as a dangerous and extreme policy. We Hungarians, with our stormy history, must understand that those who do not sit at the dinner table should not be surprised if they find themselves on the menu. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. After such a history, it was refreshing to hear the statement made by Speaker László Kövér in the days that, if this is the future of the European Union, it would be worth considering how we should slowly and carefully back out of this. May I ask Mr. Minister? who will probably answer his thoughts and opinions instead of Viktor Orbán? whether you agree with the statement made by Speaker László Kövér that under certain circumstances Hungary must leave the European Union. If you agree with the Speaker, then what are the circumstances under which you believe Hungary should withdraw from the Community? If you do not agree with the Speaker, does this mean that we will remain in the European Union under all circumstances? Finally, is the strategy for life outside the EU ready? After all, as Prime Minister has already said, there is life outside the European Union. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-11-10-59	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for asking. First of all, although I would like to begin by saying that, while not debating the suitability of the interpellation in relation to the House Rule of Decision, I would like to point out that I do not believe that the representative of the executive authority can take the liberty of commenting on the words of the legislative authority, the parliamentary leader of the legislature. There are several reasons for this. Partly as a Member of Parliament, I would not do this, and partly as an elected official of Fidesz, I would not consider it wise to comment on the words of László Kövér. You put me in that position as if it were my duty to comment on László Fat. Is this exactly what László Fat said? Because of the exceptional absence of his presence in the room, I consider it necessary to quote literally: " Is that them? And here's the Tavarez-- You're referring to Tavares' report by others, so that's them? who think that these rules of conduct can be dictated, which is included in the report. So in this respect Brussels really reminds me of Moscow. In Moscow, was it customary that the party secretary-general of the socialist camp were sometimes convened and joint declarations were issued, in which, where appropriate, in 68 Czechoslovakia and later Poland were regulated? Says the Speaker? What is free and what is not, and how to behave for the Czechoslovak, Hungarian, Polish comrades. If this is the future of the European Union, I think it would be worth thinking about how we should back out of this slowly and carefully. However, I am convinced that this is not the future of the European Union, this is a nightmare, which some people, of course, mean. This was the literal words of Speaker László Fat. Given that I am unable to comment on this as a representative of the executive power, allow me to warn all of us that Hungary's accession to NATO and its membership to the European Union were decided by two referendums at the time, and we are primarily bound by the will of the people to be good allies in this alliance. At the moment, I believe that the interests of the country will in any way support this. Thus, the economic events that took place after the accession of 2004 are very important, and from the point of view of economic performance, the subsidies and sources of catch-up that the European Commission has provided to Hungary cannot be ignored. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that if we subtract the funds from the European Union from the past seven years' performance of the Hungarian economy or subtract the HUF 10 000 billion expected for the next seven years' economic performance that would arrive in Hungary and see what Hungary knows without EU funds between 2014 and 2020 and what it knew between 2007 and 2013, it would have to worry all my fellow Members in Parliament about the fate and future of the country. These are clear numbers, clear results that speak for themselves. So at the moment, the country has a place not only on the basis of the decision of the referendum in the European Union, but also on the basis of economic interest. The question is whether there is a community of values in the European Union, which binds all the Member States equally. And that's where the debates open for the next seven years. It is expected that the European Commission will try to make the European Union a community of values and not just a community of interests. However, this will be very difficult, since it is necessary first to define precisely the values in which the 28 Member States with equal rights will agree. We will agree on many things, but I believe that we will have great debates, because our political family, Christian democrats and Fidesz have a clear position on what we think about Christian Europe, it is clear what role and responsibility St. Stephen had in this, and we also have an important view of what we think today, the 21st century. In the first century, the concept of family, as recorded in the Fundamental Law. I can guarantee you that we have an exciting debate ahead of us. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-60	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-61	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Since you replied instead of Viktor Orbán, you could have interpreted Viktor Orbán's words, and you can only tell the Prime Minister what you think of the speaker's statements. You have already given many signs that you are committed to a two-lucent policy. The Prime Minister's famous sentence became a public treasure, saying that they should not watch what I say, but what I do. The statements of the prominents of Fidesz only depend on when, in what context, abroad or deceived by their voters. The present case is just like this, dancing on the edge of the sword, trying to find its way between their earlier statements and the speaker's words. This dexterity can be seen as a political feat, but it cannot be described as a direct attitude. Although I can see that you are in a tight position, I am truly sorry that this time we have not been able to come to a clear position on this obviously key issue for our country. László Fat was much braver than you were, and frankly, he expressed his thoughts with regard to the Union. I'm sorry you didn't do that. Of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-62	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 114 votes in favour, 32 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Klebelsberg Training Scholarship." Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor. [[15.00]]
u2014-11-10-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The renewal of teacher training in terms of content, structure and funding was based on the National Higher Education Act adopted in 2011, and then the changes started. One of these excellent and undoubtedly successful elements is the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship. It was founded in 2013 by the Government with the aim of encouraging non-refundable financial support, facilitating the completion of teachers' courses and the provision of teachers in deficit areas. Last year some 400 teacher students won the scholarship based on the application, which is 25, 50 or 75 thousand forints a month. I could be there for the distribution, and I could see the sincere joy and satisfaction of the first year's students. Many of me have experienced how well the stakeholders have received this educational policy measure. It is likely that the Klebelsberg training scholarship has made a very significant contribution to the welcome increase in the number of teachers. It is only possible to approve that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center has announced the continuation of the 2014-15 academic year in recent weeks. The deadline for submitting the application was 20 October, as announced. As we have read, the criteria for criticism have been simplified, more emphasis has been placed on natural sciences, and the Hungarian future position will be taken into account by the scholarship committee. It also states that at the end of the second semester the scholarship's results will be reviewed. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to know, which is why I am asking the Secretary of State the following questions. How many applications have been received by the deadline? How is their assessment progressing? When can applicants expect a notification of the decision, a contract? Was it necessary at the end of last year's academic year, and if so, in how many cases to change the amount of the scholarship or to cancel it due to poor learning outcomes? And finally, do you find it appropriate to register universities and colleges in this matter? I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-64	Thank you very much. Welcome. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, the Klebelsberg Training Scholarship is trying to remedy a very important problem. In the past, urban legends about how few people apply to be physics teachers, other science teachers to the university in the course of admissions, and if there are no such teachers, what a problem there will be in the public education system in the future that there will be no teachers in these fields. So not only did we have to strive to increase the wages that teachers receive with the introduction of the pedagogical careers, but it is also important that there are particularly dangerous areas, gaps where further incentives were needed, not only for teachers inside, but also for teacher training. Even because in the field of teacher recruitment and teacher attraction, Bologna education has further reduced the number of teachers who wanted to acquire scientific education and later tried to educate school pupils in this field of science. That is why it was important to encourage them. We can tell you some pretty good numbers about who got these scholarships. A person who has undertaken to acquire a degree or a qualification in teacher training and then, if he acquires this diploma, can either establish a full-time employment relationship corresponding to his or her qualifications, so he will be a teacher in a public education institution maintained by KLIK, and in the course or professional pair for which he or she has obtained the qualification. If you look at the evolution of the number of applications, in 2013-14, 1301 of 1336 applicants were recruited last year, while this year the number of applicants was first in this area, in pedagogical training there were 1947, and 1618 of them were recruited. In both cases, there is already a significant number of students who take part in the course of teaching science, at least one of them is a teaching course in science. He's a science teacher 170, a physics teacher 101, a chemistry teacher 90, mathematics 281, sometimes even paired. Among them, they were awarded Klebelsberg Scholarships, who, in response to the educational needs of some kind of deficiency period, received 50 points in the evaluation; the applicant's recruitment study result was another 30 points and the employment region's involvement was another 20 points in the evaluation. Currently, the proposals received are in the preparatory phase for ministerial evaluation, and the Klebelsberg Scholarship Committee responsible for preparation will finalise next week the documentation containing the total number of proposals to be submitted next week for the evaluation of the Minister, so I can only provide approximate data for the time being. So the number of new applications is 570, compared to 529 last year. So the Klebelsberg Scholarship is more popular than last year, even. Last year, the number of winners was 456, and within weeks of this year, we will find out how many people will receive the Klebelsberg Scholarship in order to obtain such a degree in deficiency or in areas where these teachers are absent. After this ministerial decision, the list can be considered final, which is expected in November. But compared to last year, depending on the growth of the applicants, this number of 456 is likely to increase. Following the evaluation of the proposals, the applicants will be notified, expected at the beginning of December, and then the contract will be concluded. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-10-66	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer.
u2014-11-10-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased to hear how well Klebelsberg's scholarship is going again this year, confirming that we can focus on continuity and continuation of good initiatives in education policy. Of course, I accept your answer. Please allow two more comments on the subject. There is a good Hungarian proverb that says twice, who gives quickly. The sooner these young people receive the scholarship, the more useful it can be; and, yes, the increase in the number of applicants justifies what I also assumed the Klebelsberg training scholarship would contribute to this. My second observation is that we still have a long exit time, consider whether the Klebelsberg training scholarship will be extended to cross-border workers, or to those who undertake work in church schools, as they will also strengthen the quality of Hungarian public education. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-68	Congresswoman accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, Interpellation time is over, but the house rule is 122. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the independent representative applying for interpellation shall be given the floor. On the basis of all this, Gábor Fodor will be followed by an independent Member with an interpellation. Congressman Gábor Fodor has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: "Do you agree that the Indian company Apollo Tyres should not be built in Gyöngyös? It's a matter of speaking to Mr. Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-69	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The title of my interpellation is the same as the question that the Fidesz local government group put in the referendum in 2008, when the socialist government planned to install Apollo Tyres rubber factory in Gyöngyös. Fidesz then came up with a variety of arguments, when they said that Gyöngyös and Mátra's environment were so overwhelmed that the region could not bear another source of pollution. In addition, Fidesz argued that the operation of the plant would require 800,000 cubic metres of water per year, which could not be covered by the region's drinking water base. Today is 2014, and the Fidesz government is the biggest supporter of the investment. There is a legitimate question as to what has changed since then. As a liberal in the Gyöngyös region and resident, of course, I am not against foreign investments if they create jobs, especially in terms of disadvantage, and Apollo Tyres is like that. However, as an environmentally friendly politician, former Minister of the Environment, I must ask you how you can ensure that the environmental damage that you feared for the region a few years ago will not end. [[15.10]] Why do you now think that the state aid currently paid for HUF 28 billion will be repaid? Finally, I would like to ask you whether you do not consider it incompatible that the land in Gyöngyöshalász is owned by the son-in-law of the former member of the financial committee of the municipality that made the decisions, according to the court-martial data and press reports. Thank you for your reply.
u2014-11-10-70	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Béla Glattfelder. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Six years have passed since 2008, and since then the technology of Apollo Tyres Hungary Kft. is intended to be used during production and has changed significantly. The investment will therefore result in a much more modern plant than was planned in 2008. The construction of the factory also creates employment opportunities for nearly a thousand people in an area that is one of Hungary's areas of economic development. It is a well-known fact that the production of vehicle and vehicle parts plays a major role in Hungary's economy. There are currently 726 automotive companies in Hungary, which directly employ more than 120,000 people. Are there any tyre companies already in operation? Michelin, Bridgestone and Hankook? And by the way, was the Watcher just last Friday's top 200 comparison with another tire manufacturer? taking into account sustainability aspects? , Michelin Hungária Kft. became Hungary's best-functioning company. Over the past year, automotive production has increased by 32 percent in Hungary, it has produced EUR 18 billion, it has given 18 percent of the total Hungarian manufacturing performance and 10 percent of GDP, and it has also produced 18 percent of exports. It is therefore of utmost importance for us that our automotive production preserves the momentum that we have witnessed in recent years. This is why we support investments that bring modern technology to Hungary and, not least, create a large number of new jobs. This is primarily the reason why the government supported the investment worth HUF 146 billion in Gyöngyöshalász, and classified it as a major investment. By the way, this investment is highly technological, since a new job will have HUF 150 million in investment, which is also remarkable at international level. As with all such large investments, the environmental impact assessment procedure should, of course, be conducted in this case. As far as we know, it's cvt. on 17 September of this year, he submitted his application to the Northern Hungary Environmental and Nature Inspectorate. During the authorisation procedure, the Authority will examine environmental aspects and, if the authorisation is granted, it will also specify the specific environmental conditions for investment and operation. As you know, Mr President, is the legal framework for the impact assessment procedure in several ways? file review, disclosure, and so on? ensure that stakeholders, residents and civil society organisations are informed and able to comment. As far as the aid is concerned, I have to say that Apollo Tyres Hungary Kft. receive the aid package as any other comparable investor. In all cases, the level of direct cash support provided by the government is determined on the basis of job creation and expected tax revenues. We are doing this because these subsidies must also be economical in terms of public finances, and they must recover from tax revenues. Furthermore, it is important that these companies guarantee that new jobs will be maintained for at least five years. It should be noted that our country competes with other countries and other regions for a large investment. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is therefore important for us to be able to attract such investments to Hungary, and I am sure that our efforts are supported by the Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-72	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-11-10-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that in a correct reply, Mr Secretary of State said the benefits of this investment, which is why I am not going to accept his answer, is what started the Secretary of State, namely that the technology has changed so much compared to six years ago. Do the congressmen in Parliament know? Ladies and gentlemen? Of course that's not true, unfortunately. The technology was as modern as it is now six years ago, since the Secretary of State raised the example of Hankook or set the example of Michelin. Among other things, Hankook made the investment that was a significant and important investment for Hungary long before. Six years ago, environmentally friendly technology in this area, in the field of rubber production, was able to produce the same thing as it is now. So this investment is necessary, it is right to make it happen, and it was a mistake at the time, six years ago to chase it away from Gyöngyös neighbourhood, and it would be appropriate to admit it. Because this confession didn't happen [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why I don't accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-74	Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if he'll take it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 15:16. We'll move on to immediate questions. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Do you intend to investigate, Minister? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I must apologise for personally tiring you to come to Parliament, but you should know that I have already tried to ask this question twice to your deputy, Secretary of State Kontra, but you have given me an invaluable answer, which seems to be an answer. That is why I am obliged to ask Minister about the content of the questions that he has not answered me. The point is that in September, 43 stand-by officers invaded the headquarters of the Ecotárs Alapítvány and searched the premises. The first problem with this, Minister, was that they did not attempt to obtain the documents that the police needed, even though they knew that these documents had already been presented by Kehi by the Ökotárs Alapítvány, that they might have just asked the foundation and that this police action could have been saved. On the other hand, there was no indication of the specific reason for the search, which, I believe, violates the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I asked the national police commissioner how much this measure cost. He replied that only the arrival of quitters that day cost the Hungarian taxpayers HUF 1 million 249 thousand. I think, Minister, that this is just one million forints more than would have been needed, this one million forint could have been spent on something else, such as exploring other crimes. The measure, I consider, was intimidating, demonstrative, and not only do I judge it that way, but also the Deputy State Secretary Nándor Csepregi and Gergely Gulyás, Chairman of the Legislative Committee of the Parliament, considered this procedure excessive. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm waiting for that answer for now. Thank you very much, Minister.
u2014-11-10-76	I give the floor to Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you for your patience for waiting for me to answer your question personally. In ongoing criminal proceedings, we rarely answer in Parliament, because that is what the prosecutor's office is, that's what the court's building is for, but I feel that after all the questions are based on incorrect information, I still have to answer, because it would be unfair for my colleagues to question their professional competence and party policy neutrality. [[15.20]] About the facts themselves: so you say that you are possessed; I think that you have not invaded the area, that the minimum extent of violence has not been applied, but that you have ensured that the search is carried out. They were planned, well prepared, and within the framework of this preparation, it was determined how many people were involved, and there was not a single search, there were six search places, and the six places were divided into different proportions. In addition, the number had to be added within the framework of the procedure, since within the framework of a flash mob, various sympathizers came to the house, who threatened to conduct a successful search, according to the judgement of local police officers. Who was there? Were you an accountant in any way present? Is it good that you were there? There was an economic expert present, two IT guys were present at every search, and of course the uniformed policeman who made sure that all this could be done. So overall, I think it was not an occupation, it was a planned job, as a result of the planned work, our colleagues acted well, decisively and effectively. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-78	Thank you very much. Congressman Bárándy is entitled to a rebuttal answer. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, First of all, thank you for finally answering the question in substance, which is a special honor to me, despite the fact that I cannot accept the arguments that the Minister has made, because I think it is unprecedented for a search to be carried out with such a person and with so many people. Is that why I'm saying this, Minister? And perhaps this position is supported by that? I appreciate that the main problem with this measure was that it was part of a process that was going on to make government-critical civil society organisations impossible. This is what the Prime Minister spoke about in his speech in Tusnadfürdő, and in view of this kind of police action, I think, unfortunately, it can be considered excessive even if part of the arguments that the Minister has said can be accepted. We're used to the D.A.'s office serving political interests, but we're not used to the police doing that. I'm asking the Minister very much. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that he should be able to do so in the future. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-80	The Minister has a minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-81	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to make the following point: a crime of HUF 500 million has been reported, with a penalty ranging from two to eight years. Mr President, if you or anyone else were accused of a two to eight-year prison sentence, would you also expect the police to investigate this complaint as thoroughly as possible and as thoroughly as possible in criminal proceedings? if he's innocent? prove you're innocent; even if you're guilty, find out all the details for your benefit. According to our police report, that's what they're doing right now. And please forgive the fact that this is now a million 200 thousand forints. Think about whether a man is innocent or accused of committing a proper crime. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We'll prove it if he's innocent, but we'll prove it if he's guilty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is the real face of Fidesz? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as an urgent public task to respond. I will ask the Member whether he will accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Congressman!
u2014-11-10-83	Mr. President. I expect the Prime Minister to answer the question with sufficient patience and perseverance. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-84	The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions, and I will inform the Member. In this case, Mr. President Novák, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Eastern opening or rather opening an Eastern bank account is the Minister's aim? It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, The National Security Committee called for an extraordinary meeting of Jobbik to investigate whether you connected the Eastern opening policy with the opening of the Eastern bank account, and what kind of foreign interests may result from the 100 million-dollar wealth growth you explain? as a member of the government known as his parents' dependent minister? he has made more unscrupulous changes to his previous statements of assets than Antal Rogán himself. According to documents leaked on WikiLeaks, were Fidesz and MSZP politicians walking without compensation? But you're sure they're still dating? to report to the U.S. Embassy to report and ask for instructions. So, even if serving foreign interests is not new information, your fabulous wealth certainly raises questions. For example, did he serve other interests than the American, or other countries, for good money, say, even as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs? Of course, I understand why Fidesz voted against my bill with Gábor Vona on the first day of the meeting of this term, in which we initiated a compulsory assessment of the growth of Members of Parliament and members of the government and of the State Secretarys. The National Security Committee should also examine whether you have obtained a passport other than Hungarian, such as the politician of the MSZP, Gábor Simon. Finally, I would also like to ask the Minister about his excellent initiative in 2005 why he has also taken a turn in this matter. After all, in 2005, you were right to demand the taxation of luxury swimming pools before the Gyurcsány villa, but a few years have passed since then, and it seems that as a member of the government of the rich people, you have already forgotten this proposal. So I submitted it myself, but the fidesz mamelukes swept it without a single comment. However, I ask why you think that this proposal is no longer timely. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And why don't you take the initiative as a member of the government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-86	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for your correctness, given that, according to the house rules, I should have answered this question last week, but because of my travels abroad, I have not been able to attend the Parliament meeting last Monday, and you have not asked this question very correctly last week. Honourable Congressman, Would I like to say it again? Like I've done in public before? that my financial situation has been exclusively shaped and shaped by legal resources to this day. I have never, ever concealed the fact that I come from a wealthy family, I have never concealed that my parents have created a successful business achievement with the hard work of a lifetime, and I have never concealed that they will help me to this day, they will probably help me in the future, they will also help my brother, and I can even tell you that they will probably be able to help their grandchildren as a result of their activities, their work. That's what I can tell you. And all the vague hints that you've been kind enough to make in the last two minutes, and I'm rejecting that as strongly as possible. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-88	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak has a rejoinder. Here you go. You have one minute.
u2014-11-10-89	Dear Minister, I didn't make vague hints, but I also pointed out at a press conference that your parents' company data doesn't support the fact that hundreds of millions are being distributed to their children here. Therefore, we would normally expect an increase in wealth investigation, but it would obviously be a little naive to think that the current National Tax and Customs Office could carry out a credible, impartial investigation, let's say, in your interest. However, I would also like you to respond to the fact that you are maintaining your proposal on the tax burden on luxury swimming pools. Obviously not, because today the Fidesz mamelukes voted off this proposal, which I submitted in line with your previous proposal. So let me give you a windcock, pin it on your $200 million house, since you're acting like a windcock. Unfortunately, here in Parliament and as a member of the rich government, if you said before the Gyurcsány villa that it was outrageous that as a billionaire [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You refuse to pay a luxury tax after your luxury swimming pool, Ferenc Gyurcsány, then place this on your $200 million house. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. ? He goes to Peter Szijjártó's table and wishes to hand over the windcock. ? Peter Szijjártó: Put it down! ? Puts the windcock on Peter Szijjártó's table. ? Zoltán Grimlock: Very nice.]]
u2014-11-10-90	Congressman! I'd like to remind you that you're going to study the house rules more carefully. Now, for a moment, I give the floor to the Minister. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You're just lying. I don't have a $200 million house, on the one hand. [[Intercoms from the opposition: 300 million! ? Before the renovation! ? John Lazarus: You can buy it for that!]] And on the other hand, I would like to tell you that as far as my parents are concerned, that is also a lie. [[15.30]] If you looked at the data, then you obviously know that my parents previously owned 60% of the company on two steps, sold to a large German company in the early 2000s and early 2010. I cannot say, of course, the purchase price, because I was not, on the one hand, a party to the contract and, on the other, obviously all such private contracts oblige the parties to secrecy in such cases. [[János Lázár: There are many things involved.]] But what I can tell you is that a hundred million in revenue came from this transaction for the family. [[Tamás Sneider: What about the pool? ? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-92	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, who is not telling the truth? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I will ask the congresswoman whether she will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2014-11-10-93	I'll take it. Thank you.
u2014-11-10-94	Here you go.
u2014-11-10-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Fidesz and you have personally assured me several times that your party is pursuing a very active anti-corruption policy, so I consider with relative incomprehensibility that the corruption scandal that broke out a year ago, and which has been in the spotlight for a month now, is how strangely your party, your faction, and your government communicates about it. To be brief and concise, the government doesn't speak straight at least. When the fact of the bans became known, you said in a very rude way that you would not ask potential stakeholders, although it is obvious that there is no physical obstacle to this in the 21st century. In the century. At the same time, under strong pressure, President Ildikó Vida admitted that she was indeed on the list of those who were banned, and that is when the parliamentary faction of the "Maybe Other" of Politics re-launched the NAV investigation initiative that you have already rejected and did not sign. We now see that we have not been able to obtain a single signature from Fidesz or KDNP, even though the opposition also received signatures. Also, when you talked about this case later, you kept saying that you wanted the Americans to give you data because? Am I quoting you? All attempts were made to make uninformed accusations. The Prime Minister, on the other hand, said yesterday that they were examining all the data that they had made available to them about the incident. Dear Minister, Given that Prime Minister contradicted your previous words and the government's communication in general, I must ask again whether the Hungarian Government has received information from the United States of America on any corruption issues since you have been in government. If so, what data and information have you received from the United States of America? And I'm asking you, too? given that there is a completely different situation in Hungary now, and can you see that 10,000 people protested on the street yesterday? Honourable Minister, whether you will support the launch of the NAV inspection committee in the Hungarian Parliament.
u2014-11-10-96	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-97	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, It touched a lot of questions at the same time, and I would just like to answer a few questions in a telegram style. First of all, you mentioned Mr András Horváth, a former government official in the former NAV application, whose claims are being prosecuted at the moment. The prosecution? of which details can the Ministry of the Interior enlighten you and encourage you to ask the Minister of the Interior or the Ministry of the Interior in public? As far as I know, the investigation phase is approaching its conclusion. And the subject of the investigation phase is the report and the claim that certain NAV leaders tried to prevent certain NAV investigations, of course, acting unfairly? I'm gonna cut it short. That's what András Horváth said. Unfortunately, you're not getting enough publicity and attention in this case, but we're on the verge of the end of a thorough criminal investigation. Your second question about the legislative decision is what the executive authority will say if there is a NAV investigation committee. Of course, we submit to the decision of the legislature. It is not my job to create a legislative majority, but the initiative. If there is a committee of inquiry, the government will be at Parliament's disposal. As regards the President of the NAV, today the President of the NAV visited the Embassy of the United States of America and referred to his right to know why he was banned. The representative of the United States of America could not provide a meaningful answer and could not give a specific reason. It was then appropriate for the government to proceed with the procedure that, until the United States of America has provided official information on the suspicions of the NAV, the NAV officials, the head of the NAV, it cannot order any investigation or investigation following unfounded accusations. But, by the way, in these tax matters? Don't you think it's about bans? As far as I know, there are several police procedures, police investigations in progress. I suggest you ask the Home Office. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-98	Congresswoman, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-99	Thank you, Minister, but unfortunately you have not answered the question. I accepted you as an answer to the Prime Minister's behalf, but yesterday Prime Minister made a strong statement that he was examining all the data that he had been given from the United States of America in connection with the case. Therefore, I respectfully ask once again whether the government has received information from the United States. I think that if you have received it, you should know this, because the Prime Minister may not have made any statements from the air the other day when he visited his colleague in Bavaria. The other is that I understand why you are constantly trying to point fingers at the United States, but I would like to remind you once again that if you really want to pursue an anti-corruption policy correctly, then in such a case, you can safely consider the deployment of the Government Audit Office, because that is why we are holding this organization. This institution is meant to have, if such a situation is created, a place to turn to ensure that the investigation is carried out correctly. This organisation is not for the purpose of conducting civil society organisations, it is for taxpayers to be able to investigate such a situation. I respectfully ask if you're planning on conducting an investigation of Kehi in the NAV.
u2014-11-10-100	Mr. Minister has the right to reply.
u2014-11-10-101	It would be nice to clarify what matters we're talking about. Did I mean your question? And did the Prime Minister touch on this yesterday and in his earlier statements? whether andrás Horváth's allegations of a former NAV official are being investigated. Of course, there is an investigation into each claim. There's been an internal investigation into the NAV, and there's a police investigation at the moment. The Kehi test can be ordered, but the Kehi test cannot exceed or use all the means available to the police. Minister Varga said in Parliament that the NAV is conducting very serious procedures for grain VAT and food VAT abuse. He mentioned this in a speech before the agenda. As to the question of whether, in the last four years, the US Government has made any official statements on specific matters? on suspicion of corruption? for the Hungarian government, I will have this examined. Isn't that what you asked last time, Congresswoman? I was here, did I listen on purpose? He asked my colleague, State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, but specifically about strategic agreements. I will be happy to deal with this, and I will examine whether there has been such a signal to the American government, and I will inform the Parliament. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Vas Imre, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. How does the Ministry of Defence intend to develop a new career and salary? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Every year, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces perform beyond force within and outside the borders of the country, proving their readiness, ready to defend the country with weapons, and ready to withstand natural and industrial disasters, as happened last summer during the Danube flood or the red sludge disaster four years ago. They also contribute to improving Hungary's international image through their international mission activities. Therefore, it is the duty of all of us to appreciate the Hungarian Defence Staff. Last time, the first Orbán government significantly increased the salary of soldiers, and thanks to the economic policy of the last few years, the government recently announced that it would start a new increase in wages and military salaries from 2015. But we've also heard that he's doing all this in a new military career model. I ask you, Minister, to confirm what has been said so far and to summarise the main features of the planned new career model. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-104	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can confirm that the government will not only complete the military career model in the coming years, but also strengthen it with a substantial increase in salary. The government recently decided to increase the salary of Hungarian soldiers by a total of 50 percent from 1 July 2015 until 2019. [[15.40]] This means that we will increase from 1 July next year to 30 percent and then by 1 January 19 we will increase 5-5 percent per year. However, the military career model is not just about salaries. Our goal is to honor our country's armed servants, strengthen the ability to maintain the defence, and offer a predictable system of advance to our soldiers. What does all this mean? In addition to the salary increase, on the one hand, in the career model we provide the soldiers with a predictable and performance-based system of advancement. In this context, we will also take care of those who, in addition to their own faults, break out of the system because we will guarantee them that, if they want to, they can continue to work in other areas of the public service, that is to say, we will not let anyone leave their hands or leave anyone on the side of the road. On the other hand, we are introducing a new housing support system based on cash support in the near future, and the government plans to introduce a wider public housing loan scheme and a new special public service insurance scheme from 2016. Thank you again for your question.
u2014-11-10-106	I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-107	Dear Minister, As a member of the Defence and Police Committee, thank you for the good news. I am convinced that with this step we will continue to work together to strengthen our country's defence capabilities and to ensure that the Hungarian Defence Forces staff will continue to take care of them in the future. I welcome the finalization of the new career model in general and the increase in salaries in particular, and I can assure the Ministry of Defence and the Government that we will support the ideas of the Ministry and the Government both in committee and in plenary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-10-108	It is for the minister who wishes to live with him. Here, you have one minute.
u2014-11-10-109	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Defence rests on two major pillars: both the tools and the weapons that we put into the hands of our soldiers, and on the soldiers themselves. Old wisdom, and it seems so clichéd, but it is true that weapons, if there is money, can be bought at any time, but a dedicated and well-trained soldier can only be brought to the service of the country after a long, long time and financial investment. Therefore, it is our duty to respect the personnel of the Hungarian Defence Forces, to take care of them, and to keep our well-trained, dedicated soldiers in our army. Thanks to the new military career, the best of the best will be in the service of the country, whose sacrifice is always appreciated by the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-10-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Burány, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-111	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Since your government in 2010, according to the Hungarian National Bank's own statements, the monthly instalments of foreign exchange-credited families have increased by 70 percent, and the majority of this was due to the exchange rate difference, the weakening of the forint. For more than four years, therefore, a Hungarian family with hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credit problems has been waiting for you to provide a solution to this. This was partly done, and it was envisaged that foreign currency loans would be HUFed. A country was waiting breathless for the rate at which you would like to do this forinting, because it is quite obvious that this is its alpha and the omega to solve the problem or to postpone it. Well, you announced the other day that you were planning to forint foreign currency loans at practically daily rates. This is quite simply cynical, outrageous and equal to the deception of voters. That is not what you promised, but the solution to the problem. This decision is cynical because you have previously enabled those who had enough cash reserves to pay their currency debt at a Swiss franc exchange rate of HUF 180. Those who had money made this possible at HUF 180. Those who have no money are now recommending that foreign exchange loans be HUF 256-257 at Swiss francs. This is quite simply outrageous. The MSZP continues to urge that at the exchange rate of the month preceding the 2010 government change, the Swiss franc cost 185 HUF, to solve this problem. You pointed out in your decision the other day that you would not do so. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-11-10-112	It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-113	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is very important that there will certainly be no foreign exchange credit in Hungary by 2016. That's the currency loan that your government is about to lend, but you're probably one of them? as a member of the government? have you been involved in this work that has been caused by the country's abolition of government-supported housing loans and, instead, have they encouraged people to prefer loans with a low interest rate, but also with a very serious margin of exchange risk? That you forgot to inform people about? Choose. Unfortunately, a significant part of Hungary's families finally accepted and fell for your offer. That's how it usually is. One government is destroying families, and the Fidesz government is coming to fix this social problem. We have promised that we will get families out of this difficult situation, and in recent years we have taken every possible step to ensure that a final, legal solution is reached and that people are not prepared for solutions that do not put them in a position where, although we seem to have closed the problem of foreign exchange credentials, there are still thousands, tens of thousands of legal cases left, and that makes it even more difficult for families. That is why it took so long, but now we see the end of the legal solution, and indeed the last step of this is to do so after the settlement, because it is necessary to account for the illegal exchange rate gap and the damage resulting from the unilateral contract that people have to pay, and then this particular forintation can take place. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-10-114	Congressman, please.
u2014-11-10-115	Secretary of State, is there anything you can take? Let me correct your words. Viktor Orbán was the Prime Minister who made it possible to introduce foreign currency loans in Hungary. At that time, the President of the Central Bank was called Zsigmond Járai, and, by the way, these foreign exchange loans were also taken on by the Fidesz senior representatives, which was shown by their assets at the time, and they were admitted in several public broadcasts. The same applies to Fidesz-led municipalities. I do not think that there were such quantities of deceived politicians and people in Hungary. And God save us from having foreign currency credit in Hungary in 2016, as you said, if you want to forint foreign currency loans at this rate! Secretary of State, I don't know if you've calculated that this exchange rate for an average currency-loaner, if you forint your debts, will immediately raise your payments roughly, not ease your burden, but increase it. You don't add to the trouble, you reduce it. Don't cause any further problems, just solve the problem. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's your job! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-10-116	You have one minute, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-117	I would like to warn the Member that he should not make a mistake as he did in the debate on the tax law, that he had marked the honey brandy as a subject of corruption, and that one of the members of the government had arranged for the honey brandy to pay lower taxes, and then it turned out that it was the honey cake. Don't make such a mistake with the forinting. Before making an opinion, I would like to know from you whether you are a partner in bringing a legal solution to the Government and Parliament. If you say that such a solution is necessary, you will have to read the Curia's decision as to what it says about who has to take on the exchange rate risk in these transactions. [[15.50]] Because it clearly states that in this case, it is the risk of clients, the difference between unilateral contractual modification and exchange rate for banks. And that's the whole point, and that's where the solution comes from. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Some things cannot be explained. ? A round of applause from the ruling parties. ? András Tállai: Your government cannot be yours.]]
u2014-11-10-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question, "Motor bombing on the side of the road." The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You will be ashamed of this chair someday. ? András Tállai: Don't threaten me, but go out!]] I will ask the Member whether he will accept the person of the responding person or ask the Minister for his answer in person. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] Congressman's okay with it. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-119	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, It can also be seen earlier that tensions in the House are at least in relation to so-called foreign exchange lending. This is no wonder, because not so long ago, on 30 June, a representative of the government himself promised to lead a preferential forint through the system, and now they put us in the press for the first time, and then on the table we have a draft that will essentially be able to forint near the market rate. Thus, electoral campaigns have ended in a decade, and the government admits that the banks are telling it what to do and what not to do. It is perfectly clear that by allowing so-called settlement near the market rate, even their own cynical and otherwise unjust justification for a threefold division of responsibility has been released. Even this could not be kept, but the double standard being applied among Hungarian citizens, since the better-moders can pay off at HUF 180, and now those who took out loans, say, HUF 155 or HUF 160, must face the burden near the current market rate. It's pretty amazing. Mr. Secretary, you're completely wrong, and it's been revealed in the last hour when you said the ultimate goal is to release foreign currency loans. That's not the ultimate goal. The goal would be bank accountability, which is on your billboards. The aim is not to stop calling it a foreign currency loan, which was not, anyway, because quarterly reports show that there was insufficient currency withdrawal behind these so-called loans. The aim would be to regroup the last of the forints taken by the Hungarian people. Compared to this, your design would legalize the free robbery that took place between the exchange rate at the time of admission and the current almost market. The huge billionaire crowd between the two would be credited to the banks. So the question arises: how did they imagine it? And yet, did they really mean that? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-120	Secretary of State, please. [[János Lázár: Easy!]]
u2014-11-10-121	Honourable Congressman, Then let us continue, just now, not the opposition representative from the MSZP, but the right-wing opposition representative is asking the same question in essence. I think that it is in the interests of everyone, the interests of the national economy, the interests of the customers, and, of course, the interests of the banking system, because it is in the interest of Hungary to cease its exposure to the foreign currency, I think that it is in the interest of society as a whole. It can't be? Is that what I think? to be taken from the government to take significant steps to facilitate foreign exchange creditors. On the one hand, stop it, that was the first step, and, on the other hand, make it easier for it to be legal, so that it is not necessary for foreign exchange creditors individually to fight for their right. After all, by waiting for the opinion of the European Court of Justice, the Curia issued a single law decision and stated that, using the exchange rate gap, using it to harm customers, the damage caused to the clients concerned by unilateral contracts, interest increases, must be reimbursed, I believe that this is a significant result, a significant step forward in this matter. At the same time, it is estimated that nearly 1,000 billion will be returned to the pockets of these victims. So, when it comes to banks' settlements, obviously the first two steps, this exchange rate gap and unilateral contractual amendment, are already worth HUF 1000 billion to the banks in a negative sense and, at the same time, a 25-30 percent reduction in the principal amount for the customers concerned. Thank you.
u2014-11-10-122	Congressman, you have one minute.
u2014-11-10-123	Thank you. I'm trying to explain it so you can understand it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't be so pompous, don't be so pompous.]] If someone steals a stereo tower from a news store and returns the record player, they can't be released from the penalty; because only the part of the record player is returned. Can't they even recover the stolen goods and then let the financial institutions that are involved go unpunished? It's pretty amazing. But the fact that you don't answer to me why thousands of billions of dollars of stolen property are being left at the banks involved is one thing. But here in the box are representatives of foreign exchange organizations who are rightfully complaining that you are negotiating with the Banking Association, negotiating with the financial institutions concerned, but here in Kossuth Square they are afraid to negotiate with those who are involved, and who defended themselves in the courtrooms, until you basically forbid that someone in court would be able to enforce their right. This is why the question arises that, after the so-called Internet tax-related street events could not be dealt with, at least when they reacted, they fell into a sword, yet what they were about to do when the credit-damaged people were completely legitimately swarming the streets. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-124	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-125	So, to get back to the point, because the rest of the task is to forint these foreign currency loans, which will happen in a way that, of course, the client can decide whether to choose the forinting or to continue to repay them in foreign currency. I think that, before we understand the forinting, you must read the decision of the Curia, the decision of 16 December 2013, which says so: for this type of contract, the debtor was indebted in foreign currency at a rate more favourable than the standard HUF cost during that period, which means that he bears the effects of the exchange rate change. The weakening of the forint results in an increase in the debtor's payment burden and a decrease in its strength. When the Curia decides in two cases for the benefit of its clients and in one case the obligation of its clients, then, of course, a responsible government and Parliament must take this into account in the decision. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-126	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is there a difference between Fidesz and MSZP offshore companies? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Plebejus government, abolition of luxury profits, extortion of offshore knights, action against global capital. These slogans are remembered by many Hungarian voters, which were exactly those who promised before 2010 before they began to exercise power here in Parliament in the government, and they have often been brought forward in the same way as they wish in their interests. Yet, more and more people feel that you are no different than the socialists in this regard, they are not heartbroken, if they so wish, then they will start off-shore unscrupulous. Now, Prime Minister, you've been going to Switzerland quite a lot, and now you're in the alpine country with an article about a certain gas trading company that runs strange and inexplicable businesses. It is not the first time in the news that the Hungarian Electricity Works buys natural gas under the authority of the government by seemingly pointless intervention by a Swiss-based intermediary group, MET Holding. What do you need to know about this MET Holding? Mostly, according to recent information, 40 percent of it is in MOL's hands, but 60 percent is offshore. They think it's Russian-owned, or they think it's registered somewhere in Belize. Now, offshoreing is well suited to filling up private pockets, but taxpayers also miss the HUF 50 billion that was distributed in dividends in 2012 by MET. You don't have to be an energy expert to understand what's really going on here. When the socialists governed, you yelled snakes and frogs at the same phenomenon, and now when the same thing happens, they just call everything differently, and others are the characters, they are much more lenient. I would like to ask Minister what deadline they will take to eliminate this phenomenon and when they will finally exclude suspicious tax avoidance companies from the Hungarian energy sector in order to allow more money to remain with Hungarian taxpayers. [[16.00]]
u2014-11-10-128	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-129	Dear fellow Member! Mr President, Dear House, In view of the fact that my fellow Member was probably more interested in making his statements and less interested in getting an answer to them at today's parliamentary meeting, I did not get the question from him. Other Members, other opposition representatives, sometimes send their questions in writing so that I can answer them or answer them, which has not happened here. Therefore, I can answer specific transactions or purchases or company cases only after an investigation or request for information at the Hungarian Electricity Works, as I have no idea whether the Hungarian Electricity Industries specifically purchased gas from this company you mentioned, when you purchased gas, how you purchased gas. Your preparation is enviable. You could once share with the public of the Hungarian Parliament who prepares you in these matters, which somehow always, always return to the press of the United States of America or return to the Western European press. It always says that the case you bring up a few days earlier can be heard in Anglo-Saxon press, US government circles or even Western European government circles. Is there a connection between the two things? But let's leave this to all of us's fantasies. Regarding offshore companies in general, I can tell you that, of course, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the Fundamental Law puts it in black and white, and we are doing everything we can to ban offshore companies from redistributing Hungarian taxpayers' money or using EU funds. I can tell you about my own territory, which is what I was about to give you. We have examined 46,000 companies, of which hundreds have still been operating offshore since 1 January 2012, since the entry into force of the Fundamental Law. We're taking these resources away from them. Since 1 January 2012, the Fundamental Law prohibits State tax forints from being transferred to offshore companies. Parliament did not have the courage to extend this with retroactive effect before 1 January 2012. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] And I'll be briefing you on the MVM case. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-130	Dear Parliament, Everyone's asking questions. I'm wondering if you'd like to live with a one-minute rejoinder. Do you wish to live? [[On Dr. Wind Bernadett's mark:]] Here you go.
u2014-11-10-131	Thank you. I am indeed trying to prepare myself before speaking in Parliament, and I would like to keep this custom. Especially when it comes to a transaction that we have long known is a popular tool of Russian influence, that it gives certain selected interest groups cheap natural gas, and in this way Russian power connects these interest groups to it, and then it can control them manually. So I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that this phenomenon exists, has existed since governments, and I would very much like Fidesz to create a situation that will no longer exist in this country. I'd be happy to have you investigate. Please do this and stop this. Secondly, you must know, Minister, that it was precisely this company called MET that acquired three quarters of the shares of the Dunamenti Power Plant at the beginning of the year. So once again, we are talking about a company that is 40% MOL, 60% offshore, and in fact Hungary's most powerful gas-fired power plant. So I think that we have faced a situation that is a priority in the national economy and in many ways. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] I am now very pleased to draw the Minister's attention to this very harsh phenomenon.
u2014-11-10-132	The Minister's got a minute, too. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-133	Mr. President, thank you very much. In the first half of what he said, did he say this? What did you say? ? The company called MET has a Russian background. If this is offshore, how do you know that? If this is an offshore company, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Do I have another minute?]] Then how can you identify your ownership background, what intelligence information is at your disposal? If you wouldn't mind sharing that with us sometime. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The Daily Economy!]] Because if this is really an offshore company, you don't know that this company is really in the interest of the Russians or whose interests it is. Please share this with us. [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties.]] And please read back in the record what you said? Just to avoid misunderstandings later. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-134	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question with the title "Delibacy." Here you go.
u2014-11-10-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, You have virtually paper that your land lease system is a hotbed for corruption and abuse of power, as this is what the internal investigation of the National Land Fund and the findings of the Public Prosecutor's Office mean in Hungarian. After your government has been exposed to abuses, they will continue to take the land away from local farmers in this way, disguised as a tender, in order to build further their culture, their rural influence. But this is not just about buying government votes, honourable fellow Members, but also about something else. On 65,000 hectares of Hortobágy National Park, the new tenants can receive a total of HUF 7 billion, and the Bihar plains have received almost two families, leaving the Hortobágy area with about 35-40 thousand sheep and 4-5 thousand cattle without pasture. Small farmers are still grazing in old areas, since new tenants do not have animals; they also lost their grazing permit, because they do not have land, and new tenants do not have animals, so no one has a grazing permit. Minister, is it really your intention to completely destroy these families? There was a moment in February when it seemed that money didn't bring so many families to ruin, because the Prime Minister himself initiated a Kehi investigation into the abuse of Hortobágy. He also promised that there would be no contract until this investigation was completed. Minister, you promised me May! To this day, this investigation has not been completed! How is it possible for the Norwegian Civil Fund to be able to play the piano in two months, and this cannot be completed in nine months? And if it hasn't been closed, how is it possible that they've concluded contracts? Minister, are you taking steps to clarify the situation so that the Hortobágy farmers can have their wrongfully taken lands back? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] Minister, what is your interest in this?
u2014-11-10-136	I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-137	Thank you very much for asking. That would be the subject of another discussion about what I'm interested in, but that would be short, because I'm not interested in any of these types of companies. What I'm interested in, I've been asked to number a thousand times, if you mean the agricultural type of interest. [[Dr. István Józsa: Return the land!]] Those proposals were fully transparent. I can also only quote from my mind the information available to you. 237 thousand hectares of agricultural land were launched in 2012 and 13th. These land contests have been closed, the new tenants and the contracts have been concluded. These were partly announced at the National Land Fund and partly at the National Parks. In the case of the Bükk National Park, there was criminal proceedings involving suspicion or prosecution, and some of them are still pending, so the justice system has not finished its work there. At Hortobágy National Park, with my particular support, the Prime Minister ordered a Kehi inquiry. The Kehi scan is complete. Several of its findings revealed shortcomings. The deficiency was included in the tender methodology. Kehi has made it clear to the Ministry of Agriculture what errors have been made in the publication of the applications at the National Earth Fund which it oversees. The second item is a group of those who have had an error but have not affected the substantive outcome of the tender; and in the third case, I understand that it has proposed not to conclude the contract in the order of hundreds, given that there has been an irregularity, an irregularity which has affected the substantive assessment of the tender and the outcome of the tender in substance. For example, the successful tenderer did not have a real number of animals. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Nobody has an animal! ? The intervention of Zoltán Haughty.]] The Kehi investigation was lengthy because at the Nébih... I'm sorry, my proud fellow Member, perhaps you will understand it better! The Nébih had to be subject to a specific check [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] the stock of animals that applicants have at their disposal. I'll be able to continue in the next minute. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-138	Congressman, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-139	Minister, there are almost no farmers who have animals. I'm sorry, but that answer is not acceptable. If you know that it was abuse, because the system that you have created is an opportunity for abuse, you should already be able to establish a new application system and create an opportunity for local farmers to receive it, who also have animals, in a fair tendering system. You know, Minister, when the farmers concerned brought you their petition, András Váradi was with them, and he encouraged them to fight for their right, as he said, because he had already lost everything, they could not take anything from him, there was nothing left but his life, and as long as I had it, he would fight. Minister, for his sake, I can only say that what you are doing to the countryside is unacceptable. Minister, do something! This is no different than the case of the ragweed. If they see that they've made a mistake, they'll fix it and fix it. Until then, it's unacceptable that this is how it works. [[The intervention of Zoltán Haughty. ? Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2014-11-10-140	The Minister will be with you in a minute.
u2014-11-10-141	I would like to say to you that, compared to 237 thousand hectares, the number of applications that are at all in the social debate is less than 5%, as a proposal that is challenged by the losers of the tender in terms of the result. [[16.10]] So we are talking about 5 percent of the tender, which is the subject of the debate. No one questioned 95 percent of the results, no one attacked me, no one brought them to Parliament or to the public. I can offer you an insight into the Kehi inquiry, and I will provide you with this opportunity, and you will be able to find out in detail what errors Kehi has detected in the opening of the application, its complexity, and how many applications there are that I cannot recall from my head what the number on which the evaluation of the application was substantially influenced by the error that occurred in the tender. These have otherwise been corrected in the new tender procedures, as there has been or will be an annulment and a new application. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-142	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman István Apáti, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When will the lies be blocked? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I will ask the Member if he will accept the person who is responding. [[István Apáti: I accept.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-10-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There are no waves of banning scandals, and your procrastination, lying behavior is the main reason for this. There is a fundamental difference between the position of the left and Jobbik, namely that the left considers the information coming from America to be omnipotent, fully evident, but we say that a fair, fair, legal and fair examination by the Hungarian authorities, the Hungarian authorities, is necessary in every detail. But here comes the first problem, because of the political pressure that Fidesz has put on it, there is hardly any real chance. Is it necessary to examine it in order to reassure voters and the public and possibly to clarify you? Would you have the highest interest in him? As to whether there was an attempt on the part of senior NAV officials or even members of the government, they attempted to transfer 10 percent of the tax profits of an American food industry to a party foundation near Fidesz. Did this involve private pockets, or did any conduct of the crime serve private purposes? Last week's statement to Ildikó Vida, the leader of the NAV, stirred up the moods and slammed the waves of protest. As a result, several questions arise. Since when does Ildikó Vida know that he and several of his associates are among the banned? How, when, from whom, from whom, from what source did you learn about this? Who else is on the list, who else is on the list of those banned? Are there other senior state officials among the banned? Does the involvement of government members, state ministers, ministers arise? If so, who are these people? Who were the ministers Ildikó Vida informed that he and several of his associates were on the list of those banned? When did this information take place, and if it is true that Ildikó Vida has informed several ministers, what will result from the many lies that have been written here in this Chamber for weeks? Will there be a resignation in this case? 'Cause back in the day, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The Gyurcsányek were about to be canceled because of the lie, so you are subject to this rule, too, if you are lying, you must resign. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-144	Mr. Secretary of State Tallai has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-145	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Maybe he asked more questions than the last two seconds... [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? István Apáti: You have to learn.]] I don't want to learn to speak fast. I'm more of a thorough, thoughtful speaker. I can tell you that there is an investigation, as has already been said in Parliament, in the case of VAT fraud, and, of course, there is a negative result in quotes, 12 companies are affected by the investigation, and the amount of tax deficits found exceeds HUF 2 billion. There's a case against 12 people. Some are already under arrest. So there is an investigation into VAT. With regard to Ildikó Vida's banning, if you've been listening, many things have been revealed today. Let's just say that why he was banned from the United States as a private person hasn't been found out until today, even though he has taken the step today to come to the U.S. embassy and asked them to give him the evidence or at least the charges that made him subject to such proceedings. This did not happen, and we believe that under Hungarian law a person has the minimum right to know that if such a decision is made against him, what is really the reason. And your question about who's lying is I don't understand. Name who lied about this. Since there is no evidence and no specific case is named, no inquiry can be launched on this issue, even though the Prime Minister said that there is zero tolerance and that the prosecution has taken action. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Obviously, if there are specifics, there will be an investigation on this issue.
u2014-11-10-146	Congressman, please.
u2014-11-10-147	Dear Secretary of State, I don't think it's my speech schedule or the speed of my speech. I am an interested person, I am a curious Member, I like to ask as many questions as possible in two minutes, and I would like you to inform the public about these issues not only me, but also through the publicity of television. Technically, no questions have been answered in substance or in very few questions. It would be good for you to appreciate and take into account that I did not claim, I did not accuse, I did not make shady statements, but I asked civilized and adequate questions about this scandal. Otherwise, it will cause you the greatest harm if you do not recognize that it is precisely in your best interest to clarify yourself and to exclude from you those who may have committed unsuitable acts either as a private person or, above all, as an official, if necessary, criminal acts. It's in your political interest, and it's in the country's political interest. Otherwise, they won't get rid of the better questions in the next few weeks. We're waiting for names, names to be heard. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: Accusations! ? Let's hear some accusations first.]] I believe it's unpleasant for you that you've finally stopped attacking me since 2006. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But they need to be defensive, and they need to explain themselves. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-148	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-10-149	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, There are some things that we agree on, so that we can find out the truth and start an investigation, if there really is corruption, it's in your interest and ours. But believe me, we're more interested. Therefore, I must repeat the substance of this American regulation. This is the proclamation, the whole point of which is to make a unilateral decision against a person. He doesn't even know there's something going on, he doesn't even know what kind of decision he's gonna make, and they don't listen to him. He can't appeal against it, he can do one thing, he understands that. You acknowledge, you receive this document, it has its form and its content. Then what can a Hungarian citizen do? He comes to the U.S. Embassy and asks, after the D.A.'s office has filed a legal request for the Americans, he asks how to tell him face-to-face. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Give me the document as to what happened. And that didn't happen. That's the legal situation, so you can't even ask for names. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] or the specifics, we can't give you that.
u2014-11-10-150	Thank you very much. We've reached the end of the immediate questions. I would like to inform you, honourable Members and Members, that due to the delay in the interpellation period, there is about 20 minutes available on the issue. So now we are continuing our work with questions. Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: what is the government's intention to retire at an early age? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2014-11-10-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the end of this year, the possibility of early retirement will cease under the law. This? Do we know exactly? those who had previously worked in dangerous jobs and who could retire before age in order to protect their health. At the beginning of the 2010 cycle, the Fidesz government announced that it would eliminate the possibility of retirement before retirement age. Then this principle also fell, as women were given the opportunity to retire before age after 40 years of employment. However, in order to maintain the former principle, in the case of pension holders, the former pension was converted into benefits. The government then dealt with the issue comprehensively last in 2012, but at that time due to the budgetary impact and the conflicts associated with the transformation, it decided to extend the system until the end of this year, i.e. by this date it is possible to increase the number of years to benefit, and employers can increase the central budget with extra revenue, which is nearly HUF 20 billion. To my written question of a similar nature, the Secretary of State replied, which he indicated as follows. On the one hand, he acknowledges that the early early retirement pension has been reduced to a benefit, a benefit that can and can be sold. [[16.20]] Then, Mr State Secretary, you also tell me that the draft budget for 2015 will include this provision, the budget of which we have not yet started the debate, and that every day the press will read that there are always changes in the budget. Finally, one more thing that the Secretary of State also says: according to the rules in force, the loss of early law will take place under the same conditions until the end of the year. So it can change by the end of the year, or next year. I'm gonna ask you one more time? And please don't take this the wrong way, Mr. Secretary? why Parliament has not discussed the issue of early retirement during this period. What does the government intend to do with this retirement? Why do they keep nearly 50,000 people insecurity? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-10-152	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2014-11-10-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you mentioned, the early retirement scheme has not been part of the pension scheme since 1 January 2012, given that, as a main rule, retirement age pension can only be established in Hungary. Pre-age pensions, such as early retirement pensions, from 2012 onwards? Just like you said you would? converted into pre-age care. The source of the expenditure on pre-age benefits is the National Family and Social Policy Fund and the funds needed for the payment of the benefits will continue to be insured. So these benefits are in no way in danger, but guaranteed. This was also considered in the planning of the 2015 budget. Of course, the acquired early entitlement can continue to be enforced without a time limit, and even under the rules in force, the acquisition of early retirement rights will take place under the same conditions until the end of the year. At the same time, the government still considers it important to give the benefit to the hardest workers. We have put forward a proposal for the granting of an extra discount to the Parliament for the benefit of miners working in jobs involving increased use of the organisation. By way of derogation from the general rules, as from 1 January 2014, a miner who has worked for at least three years in a position entitled to early retirement will be entitled to this benefit. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-154	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, when will the salaries of medical pedagogical assistants be settled and the allowances due will be returned? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-155	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From 1 September 2013, the wage and bonus system for school workers has been uniformly regulated. Wage increases and teacher careers extend from the start of the 2013 academic year to all employees employed in the teaching profession in public education institutions. However, 15-20 thousand staff directly assisting the educational and educational work and technical staff in state-run schools and kindergartens have not received a wage increase, including medical pedagogical assistants. The government has been promising to settle their wages for years, but it hasn't happened to this day. They're civil servants, but they're not subject to a teacher's lease, because they don't work in teaching jobs. From September 2013, allowances were taken from medical pedagogical assistants in accordance with the standardization of pedagogical allowances. They, as direct educators, have so far received various allowances, for example in difficult circumstances, catching up and other allowances. The government, as in the case of educators, reduced the number of allowances, and what was left did not extend to everyone, or rather took away than given. To a different degree, all medical assistants have reduced their salary. Mr. Secretary. Do you realize how badly these very important and increasingly needed civil servants have suffered since September? In assistants who have been absent from wage increases in recent years, the taking of allowances could have resulted in a gross reduction of 20%. Their salary before September was already below the minimum living limit set by KSH, i.e. less than HUF 87 510. Do we know that more and more people are about to quit because? Like one of them said? their work is not appreciated at all. Institutions financed by the CLIK shall not expect any appreciation. I'm asking you, based on all of this, when are you going to settle the salaries of medical pedagogical assistants and give me back the allowance you deserve. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State of Retvári again. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government? Like you sometimes say in a little gown? not designed and introduced a teacher's wage increase merely, but rather a teacher-promotion system, part of which is the new pay table, the raised pay table for educators. The promotion system does not only mean a pay table, but also grades and a qualification procedure that is clearly only applicable to teaching jobs. Did the amendment of the National Public Education Act extend the scope of teachers working in the position of educator and thus subject to the promotion system? Were you here in Parliament when this extension was accepted? a pedagogical expert, pedagogical lecturer in the institutions providing pedagogical professional services, and in the institutions covered by the law on the protection of children and the management of guardianship. Of course, from the point of view of the upbringing of future generations, there is no doubt that the work of any employee working in a public educational institution is very important, and this is also particularly true for those directly assisting educational work. The teacher's wage increase was recorded in the National Public Education Act by providing the appropriate resources for directly assisting educators, including medical pedagogical assistants. From 1 September 2015, the scope of the promotion system shall also apply to employed teachers who are qualified in a job directly assisting educational and educational work in the educational institution. It is indeed true that some of the former allowances have ceased to exist, both in relation to teachers and tutoring staff directly, with the introduction of the teacher-promotion system on 1 September 2013. At the same time, we can say that there is no change in the fact that he has been employed directly in the educational and educational institutions, such as the medical pedagogical assistant civil servant is still entitled to the medical pedagogical allowance. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The pedagogical allowance may not be granted in conditional mode, but must be given by the employer. But we trust that we will also have opportunities for a wider number of civil servants [[The president's ringing again.]] raise wages on the basis of the performance of the national economy at a later date. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-158	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-159	Mr President, Dear House, We were shocked to see in the budget presented that the government cuts 44 percent of the resources that we devote year after year to the location of the unemployed. The sole beneficiary of next year's budget will be community service, with expenditure rising by 46 percent. On one side, employment support will be reduced by half, from which the government has so far supported training, job-seekers, job-experience, entrepreneurialisation or job creation for small and medium-sized enterprises, and almost a third of the VET and adult education lines will also be reduced. On the other hand, public works expenditure increases more than four times the 2011 resources. In order to complete the picture, the government announced that in four years the aid will cease, because everyone will be working in community service. As a first step, a quarter of aid workers will be transferred to community service next year. From the brutal withdrawal of resources and the increasing expansion of public work, it can be concluded that in four years the labour centres will cease in their present form. The service function, with which people can get real, personalized help to move on, ceases. Labour centres are degraded into executive bodies managing public work. This goes against what Mihály Varga was talking about at his candidacy hearing. There he promised to transform the employment offices, strengthen their relationship with the labour market, and separate the institute of public works applications from them. Sadly, however, the promise and the action were different again, and this has little good foresight in the country of the work-based society in Orbán. My question is, since they won't be unemployed in four years' time, can we count on the abolition of labour centres? Thank you.
u2014-11-10-160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State of Czomba. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to reassure you first of all that one of the most important tasks for the Hungarian Government in the next four years will be to increase employment, reduce unemployment, and, above all, to expect continued expansion in the competitive sphere in the next period. [[16.30]] In terms of resources, it is not worth looking at just a line from the budget, because what you said is true, if you look only at the lines of the National Employment Fund. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government intends to use EU funds to increase employment where possible in order to save domestic resources. In terms of EU funds, the thickest foot in employment over the next period is that more than HUF 700 billion is available for training, retraining, wage support and various active employment policy instruments. The government's position on community service is clear. If the question of giving people aid or work is clear in our reading that we want to provide work, if not elsewhere, within the framework of public employment, in the next period. By the way, you are right, and we also perceive that if there is too much public employment in an area in which there is too much public employment, it can indeed become counterproductive, because there may not be an adequate number and quality of people in the competition sector. That is why we intend to launch programmes in the next period that will create the possibility of exiting public employment from the competition sector by using EU funds. With regard to the labour organisation, I would just like to say to you that the most successful Member States, where employment is quasi-complete, are one of the strongest organisations in Germany and Austria. Thus, it does not cease to be the job organisation's task when unemployment ceases to exist, but it generates the most for each government to do so.
u2014-11-10-162	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister about the motorway between Miskolc and Košice. Hungarian-Slovak relations on new roads? It's an address. The question will be answered by the Minister of State for National Development on behalf of the Prime Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-163	Dear Secretary of State, During his recent visit to Slovakia, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó discussed, among other things, with Minister of Foreign Affairs Miroslav Lajčák, and agreed that they would soon connect Miskolc with Košice by highway. To this end, the motorway M3 is extended from Miskolc to Tornyosnémeti, so it reaches the border. Dear Secretary of State, The citizens of Borsodi, but especially Abaúj, have been waiting for this for a long time, as thousands of trucks cross the border every day on two lanes of old 3 and make the daily lives of those living there almost unbearable, whether in Siksun or in Encsen. But in fact, the whole of Europe is waiting for this motorway, because it connects not only the historical regions of Aba new Hungary and Slovakia, but also the true European transit route, because the route between Košice and Miskolc is part of the European road network E71, which connects the Carpathians with the Adriatic, and even connects the Baltic Sea with the Adriatic with the existing Polish routes. So this is not just a local, let's say, abaúji or Slovak-Hungarian case, but a transport project of European importance. It is no coincidence that the presidents of the Visegrád 4 European Affairs Committee supported this project two weeks ago in Hernádvécs. This will not only make it easier for the Hungarian minority living in Abaúj, Slovakia, but also for the cross-border trade and services sectors, which hopefully will boost local economic opportunities on both sides of the border. In view of this, it is not surprising that building the route has a prime minister's priority and support. Dear Secretary of State, Based on all this, I ask you when the citizens of Abaúj will be expected, when, in fact, Europe can expect the old desire to finally come true, the completion of the M30 motorway. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-164	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, With the agreement signed by the Hungarian and Slovak prime ministers on 27 March 2014, the largest joint infrastructure development programme in the history of the two countries was launched. On this basis, 21 new road connections, two motorway connections, including M30, were envisaged at our common borders for the 2014-2020 EU programme period. In addition, a new Danube bridge is being prepared between Komárom and Révkomárom, a new Hernád bridge is being prepared between Abaújvár and Kenyhec, and a freight ferry is being built between Esztergom and Párkány. With four new connections over the last year, we can say that we will double the number of road connections in the next seven-year EU programme period. Within the framework of this programme, the implementation of the M30 motorway on the Hungarian side, providing a link between Miskolc-Kassa, will be treated as a priority by the government, so that it discussed the project list at the last week's government meeting in relation to the national transport infrastructure development strategy, which includes the entire section of the M30 motorway in the European budget programme 2014-2020. The M30 was planned at four stages, the first between the Tornyosnémet border, the second stage between Siksó-Aszalo and the section between the Hot-Abaújdevecser, the third stage between Miskolc-Siksó and the section between Aszaló and Hotró, and the fourth stage between Abaújdevecser-Tornyosnémeti. In all three phases we have the implementation study, depending on the weather, the start of the investment is expected at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, and at the end of 2015, the rest will be performed in stages. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-166	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions for today. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to examine the state security history of the main actors of national policy following the change of regime H/484. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, For the first time, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer. Congressman, you have five minutes. Here you go. [[In the notary seat Dr. István Tiba will be replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]]
u2014-11-10-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Over the past four years, about six of our proposals have been wiped out by the two-thirds majority with its slyness, usually by staying at committee and plenary meetings, which concerned the exploration of the state security past. I got a little tired of these useless experiments, and I turned one over on the game. Let us try to talk about the point, try not to allow you to smear the problem here, and let us look at what is most important, perhaps, how the processes after 89 were influenced by the various persons of surviving state security, the foreign contact capital at the disposal of the surviving state security, where appropriate, how the connections whose threads and origins led back to the pre-89 Hungary. The proposal for a parliamentary resolution that I presented to this House is based on the fact that the two-thirds majority has set up the National Remembrance Committee. Even then, more than the debate of this law, we have indicated our fear that you want to set up a committee so that you don't have to face what is unpleasant. Of course, they have not been a great disappointment, since the National Remembrance Committee, there has been a great silence about the dirty past. Our proposal is that the National Assembly should call on the Committee of National Remembrance set up by you and, of course, in the spirit of Fidesz alone, to examine all persons who otherwise participated in shaping Hungarian politics by 31 December 2014, i.e. there is still time. So we would like to ask that the National Remembrance Committee publish a report by the end of the year on the extent to which all persons who, either as members of the government or as representatives, managed this country after 23 October, were involved in communist state security. [[16.40]] Is this proposal important because you guys have been on the run for the last five times? In a very impertinent way? They got out of the way by constantly claiming that the wounds of the blackmailed little snitches couldn't be ripped up again. You've been hiding behind churchmen, you've been referred to here on grass trees, but now you have to come clean. This is not just a question of blackmailed, broken-down people, but of people who didn't make or sign reports in one way or another during the communist period, and then they sat here, in the Hungarian Parliament, either as a representative or as a member of the government, and played the great Democrat. Dear Parliament, Of course, this is basically a moral question. Is it a moral question because until then? And we're going to say that in the next legislative debate on the subject? As long as there is no clear moral dividing line between dictatorship and democracy, as long as everything can be relative, let us not be surprised that cycles and changes of government will pass in this country without any consequences, no accountability for anything at all. But it's not just that; it's more than that. It is also at stake whether Hungarian voters will even be in a position to know exactly what political forces they choose before an election. What do you mean? Don't we have any illusions? relations systems, the accumulated relationship and economic capital that leads back to the world of state security before 89, are still alive and functioning. And we do not know that when we go to the polling booth, which is political actors, which are media players who influence public opinion, behind the behaviour of the network of relations whose roots lead back to communist state security. In English: we have a fundamental interest in learning about the past so that we can get to know the present, and this proposal is extremely little ambitious compared to what we put on the table of Parliament earlier, because it is a closed circle of those who exercised public authority? Abusing the voter's trust? After October 1989, I therefore ask you to include this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I will therefore be the first to give the floor to Mrs Zsuzsa Szelényi, who has indicated in writing her intention to speak. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-169	Thank you very much. Dear House, It's been exactly two and a half decades since the change of regime. Meanwhile, Hungary's legislation failed to account for the crimes of the past system and to clarify its relationship with the socialist system. The list of agents is still open to the public, and the decision-makers are still sneaking around when the issue comes up. For four and a half years, it's clearly the responsibility of Fidesz. The word is loudly anti-communist, but in action, a cowardly party of government takes every opportunity to keep the identity of the agents a secret. You can't be proud and confident of a people who can't know their past. As long as the governing parties prevent the possibility of learning about the past, they are incompetent to make Hungary a proud country. You recall that the representatives of the Együtt-PM made their own proposal already in May, which would provide people with full publicity for research into the past of state security, and which would resolve this issue in detail and comfortably. Fidesz rejected this, as cynically rejected the LMP's similar proposal last year. There is no question, of course, that I am very much in favour of this series of articles. The inclusion of the Lustration proposal is also an important issue: it is necessary to speak and debate these matters. Although I believe that historical justice is no longer possible 25 years after the change of regime, the past is not only possible, but above all necessary. I therefore support the inclusion of both proposals in the series. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-170	Thank you very much. Members asking for a normal word came forward. First, I give the floor to Mr. President Novak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Just three weeks ago, Viktor Orbán admitted, in reply to an immediate question, that the appointment of the Secretary of State of Laszlo Tasnádi III/II was a mistake, and he was involved in a reasoning that cannot be corrected by error; the point is that he remains in place. However, this is unacceptable. Of course, it should start with the fact that the state security past, such as the so-called agent lists, which has been encrypted until 2060, but not just the specific activity that has been carried out to judge the concrete work of those operational officers or agents, should indeed be explored. I think that if that were to happen, if at least they were to be handed over to the archives, then we could talk about what the consequences would be. On the other hand, abstract academics, university educators urge us and researchers not to think about agency matters, but in structures. So nothing concrete, just a principled approach. On the other hand, the everyday reality is that we already know the structure of state security, from the party centre to the head office of the State Security Group, back and forth, but it should be noted that not structures, but agents were sent to the Hungarian Parliament, state and executive organizations, and people would like to hear names after 24 years, not structures and analyses. Confessing the past, apologizing, providing information compensation, moral satisfaction only to specific individuals, not principle structures. So we are sick of the smearing that the National Remembrance Committee, as an instrument of government or government, is carrying on, as a kind of further delay, always and always voted against the various proposals put forward by the LMP; although Jobbik himself had a vote by name, which, at the beginning, was very divisive even for the governing parties. However, we trust that sooner or later the current government will also back down before social pressure.
u2014-11-10-172	I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As noted earlier, at the beginning of the year, the National Remembrance Committee was established to take further steps to consolidate the rule of law, constitutionality and Hungarian democracy by promoting research during the period of communism. [[The First of Novak: Did they write this? ? Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] After the confusing transition, there was a real social need to make responsibility, credibility and accountability a fundamental requirement in public life. Through the competent research of the previous repressive system, the Committee reveals and discloses the crimes committed by the regime, the activities of the operators and their role. It is of common interest that future generations [[Interpreting from Jobbik's ranks, among other things: Reset!]] to have objective images of the history of their country, and to ensure that the repressive total dictatorship like the communist regime is never established in Hungary again, the crimes of communism must not be repeated. The National Remembrance Committee is therefore carrying out its work, thus not supporting inclusion in the series of subjects. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But that's not it!]] Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz. ? Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Applause!]]
u2014-11-10-174	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The MSZP takes a position on this issue in full transparency and publicity [[Ancient Novak: Opposite!]] We voted in favour of several of these initiatives, of course we will support this. The government's current solution to the National Remembrance Committee and Imre Vas's comments are also a joke in this respect. We think that this is the solution that lies on the table and, of course, we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-176	Here comes Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Basically, of course, the LMP faction supports the motion of independent representatives, and there is nothing more in favour of it than the first sentence of the resolution proposal in full compliance with the Basic Law, according to which the Parliament expresses its commitment to the right of every Hungarian citizen to know the secret history of the regime change. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that this proposal for a resolution in itself is something that makes the position of Fidesz-KDNP completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible, because that is what Mr Vas Imre literally said, that responsibility in public life should be a fundamental requirement. With responsibility, this proposal for a resolution can only be supported and the Hungarian society must have the opportunity to deal with the trauma that it has not dealt with and has not dealt with after the change of regime. I believe that we cannot talk about a change of regime until this is done, this is not happening, and Hungary is not facing its own history and past. [[16.50]] Biologically, there is still the possibility that people who have been involved in this and are in public life, after they are still alive, can face those who have been observed, who have been reported, and this confrontation may be the means to begin processing this trauma. For this reason, I believe that total irresponsibleness and disrespect for public life are not in favour of the proposal for a resolution, and it is very highly incomprehensible of us that a government coalition calling itself civil and democratic does not do so in any way. We are asking that this position be reviewed and that it be supported. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-178	Thank you very much. I'll ask Congressman Schiffer if he wants to react. [[For signal:]] You have two minutes, please.
u2014-11-10-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to thank you for the opposition speeches in support; and I would like to make just a few comments to my fellow Member, Imre Vas. On the one hand, the confusion that you've had, based on your assessment of the textwriter, has been largely due to you, and this confusion will remain, if you want to constantly, cynically sweep the past under the rug. Congressman Iron, this quarter-century has been confused because with the same cynical grin they tried to sweep these proposals under the rug every single time. Your behavior symbolizes this confused past quarter-century, that's what I'm talking about. Dear Parliament, Dear Congressman Iron, In a series of debates, perhaps the Parliament, if not the opposition representatives, could be honoured not to write its text in advance. He had his text written in advance, so there's no reason to wonder that what you said here wasn't on a thank-you basis with the subject of the current debate. It's not that we want to do another national memory committee, though? By quoting the joke? there would be a need for it; it is a question of calling on the National Remembrance Committee for an additional task. I would like to tell you, slowly to understand, that we would like to ask the National Remembrance Committee to review everyone who exercised public authority in this country after 23 October 1989 on the basis of the law's task. Now the only question is, why doesn't Fidesz have any interest in it? Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-180	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on amendments to the laws necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer. Five minutes is available if you wish to speak. [[Dr. András Schiffer nodds.]] Here you go.
u2014-11-10-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The historical truth is that this proposal also failed the Judicial Committee by arresting the majority of governments without valid justification, precisely, I believe, with the support of the socialist representatives present. In this bill, it is very important to mention that we did not, by accident, bring a simple bill here and not a fundamental amendment, because we believe that it is possible to create a laws of Lustration within the current constitutional framework. I would like to point out, in advance, what was the motive for putting forward this bill. Fidesz-KDNP celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Imre Nagy funeral in two ways. On the one hand, a small personal cult was made for Viktor Orbán, one of the soloists at the time, and the 25-year commemoration was not really about Imre Nagy and his martyrs, but about the current Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who spoke there. And their other celebration was that the same heroic Viktor Orbán appointed the Tasnádi László, who on 16 June 1989 did nothing but direct the agents who were supposed to observe the opponents of that time, including Viktor Orbán. The thing is, I don't know how serious you were or how serious the Prime Minister meant it. My colleague Novak has just recalled this immediate question from a few weeks ago and the rather surreal Prime Minister's answer to that question. The LMP's firm position is to put clean water in the glass. And to answer Mrs Selényi's words, I think that it is never too late for justice. The thing is, regardless of how many people are still alive and who can actually be concerned or who have political ambitions at all, I think it is important, on the one hand, to draw clear boundaries in the current legal order. Moreover, as the Tasnádi case has shown, there are some people who not only served the communist system simply, they were not just agents, but they controlled the repressive apparatus whose secrets are still struggling with the new Hungarian democracy. Dear Parliament, This Lustration Bill, within the framework of the Fundamental Law, provides that those who controlled the oppressive organizations, so that they controlled the agent apparatus, whether on the part of the party centre, the government, the Presidential Council, or on the controlling bridge of state security agencies, these persons should not be police or any state secretary in this country. We demand that this Lustration Bill include that clear quality be separated in Hungary, 25 years after the change of regime. If we do this, then maybe Imre Vas shouldn't repeat how confusing this last quarter of a century has been. This is the opportunity to draw clear boundaries by creating a Lustration Act, and to finish the game of communistizing the political opponent at the same time, while at the same time bringing the former Communist into government who may be more responsible for the pre-89 events than you are currently communisting. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-182	Thank you very much. Similarly, one representative may speak in two minutes per faction or the first independent representative to apply. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that we will also support the inclusion of this bill in the series of articles, together with the fact that it is the drafting of the bill itself, do we think that it is both legally and in substance a negligee, and it is not certain that it will reflect or reflect it in life? Like they say? That's what the poet thought. We feel a little bit like the quality of a government proposal, but we understand the intent. With all this, would we encourage the LMP? And that's the point of our comment? That, on the one hand, it should be decided whether to use it or to harm it, because there is a point in it that seeks to exclude, for example, the entire secret service professional staff from the current professional secret service work. I would like to draw attention to the fact that not everyone worked for internal counterintelligence before 90, but actually served their country, perhaps as counterintelligence, spy, or other activities that had to and have to be done ever since. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Destroy the system! Péter Medgyessy!]] I'd like to ask for more restraint than this part of the job right now. But what I would like to suggest to the LMP is that you do not stop here, fellow Members. If we are to explore the pro-state and one-party affairs of the period preceding the last 25 years, then I think that this bill should slowly include the development and responsibility of the current pro-state and one-party system of power, as it is important to put the past and the past on the table, but I think that Hungarian citizens should see it, and those affected must feel that it is not possible to do it today. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-184	Thank you very much. Congressman Novak Előd has spoken. There you go. You have two minutes. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-11-10-185	Dear Parliament, In 1991, Fidesz was the only party to vote unitedly against a similar lazy proposal called the Zétényi-Takács Justice Act. Unfortunately, Fidesz hasn't changed that position since then, have they? We can talk about the last eight years here after a few years, will that also happen? But we can talk about the governance of the MSZP. It is therefore rather strange for me and it is false that they seem to support the publication of the state security past and the banning of communist leaders from public life, but they have not even been able to do so in their own ranks to this day, in fact, they are playing extinction in relation to the old communists. [[17.00]] Last time, Péter Kiss, a former member of the Central Committee of the MSZMP, was buried, but in fact, he could also be a member of MSZMP KB in the benches of the MSZP. So how do you propose to ban former Communist leaders from public life if you have brought in MSZMP KB member in this cycle as well? But here is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, as former secretary of the Central Committee of the KISZ, was such a high-level leader of the previous party state system. [[Nándor Gúr: You know, KágéBéla!]] That after a normal, alleged change of regime, he wouldn't have been able to fill in? After a good change of regime? Not only is he a prime minister, but not even a member of Parliament. And we could mention the case of Gustáv Zoltai, whom John Lázár asked for despite the past of a former communist worker, and also for a rich remuneration, a ministerial advisor. We could mention many examples, but this only proves that the three most important anti-communist demands of Jobbik are still waiting for us today: the disclosure of the past of state security, the expulsion of communist leaders from public life? You can sit in the benches of the MSZP to this day, can't you, as we've seen recently? And indeed, the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions is still waiting for you, as Béla Biszku still lives among us, but the prosecutor asking for a death sentence for Péter Mansfeld, György Mátsik, enjoying hundreds of thousands of luxury pensions provided by the government. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-186	Thank you very much. Welcome, fellow Members. We will continue the debate. To make a proper speech, Mr Vas Imre asked for the floor from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just mentioned the National Remembrance Committee, which I would like to refer once again to my fellow Member Schiffer, because it is the task of the committee to cooperate with the prosecutor in investigating crimes that have not been committed or have not been committed during the communist dictatorship. Its powers include the publication of personal data of the power holders in connection with the operation of the dictatorship, to which the data subjects may comment in writing. The Committee should initiate criminal proceedings with the Attorney General in respect of crimes which have not yet been prosecuted on the basis of his research. I stress that it is in the interest of society that the crimes of communism should not be repeated. On the other hand, the bill is suffering from errors that cannot otherwise be remedied by means of an amendment. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Spit it out.]] with particular regard to the fact that, whether it is a Member of Parliament or a President of the Republic, it intends to adopt a subsequent procedure which would otherwise be possible only in the Fundamental Law. Therefore, as regards who may be President of the Republic or who may be a Member of Parliament, it can only be regulated by the provisions of the Fundamental Law, and this cannot be improved by an amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Intercoms.]]
u2014-11-10-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-189	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This bill is a very narrow but important one-hundredth delay in carrying out the frustration activity that was not carried out at the time of the change of regime, because it is primarily the electorate's responsibility to assess the party state past of some parties and politicians. With this approach, of course, the LMP faction supports the motion, and I would like to say that we expect the same to be expected of the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary representatives, given that a few years ago a loud crowd of D209s came out of the lines when a leader's former party state history arose. At that time, they stood up to the fact that a man who had done this activity before was not fit to lead, so it would be unacceptable for them to stand for this initiative with a turnaround and a lack of credibility for which you stood up a few years ago. We believe that those who betrayed their nation's citizens, betrayed their neighbours, and, if necessary, carried out activities that were clearly against Hungarian citizens, cannot decide on morality, legislation, and legality. So we continue to believe that the regime change will not take place in Hungary as long as the official personnel of the state security of this former party state dictatorship can be here in our public life. Of course, we expect the representatives of Fidesz to support this motion, because we believe that it is disrespectful to the betrayed and martyrs that is contrary to this. And I would like to say to Mr Tamás Harangozó that I can assure you that, at the time of a possible LMP governance, the accountability of the former governments will take place, but there will be no exception for the eight years or the years when the MSZP has governed. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Go!]]
u2014-11-10-190	Thank you very much. I would ask my fellow Members not to confuse the meeting room with the football field. I would like to ask if anyone else intends to speak. [[No signal coming through.]] Yeah, I don't see a candidate. I am now asking Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, if you would like to respond to what has been said. [[On András Schiffer's mark:]] Excuse me a minute. The leader of the group has checked in in in advance, so I'm giving you the floor now. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Continuing where my fellow Member Sallai finished, I would just like to say to Mr Harangozó's last sentences that we do not talk about accountability, but we do have the proposals that allow us to do what none of the former opposition parties and then later government parties have done before in any change of government: everyone will be accounted for, be calm. Dear Parliament, Did Congressman Bellman object to the fact that we also spoke to those professionals? Of course, everyone who served dictatorships was a specialist. Have we heard this many times before? We'd be sweeping you out of the Secret Service, doing some professional work. Now, I don't want to go deeper into this in two minutes, but I just want to remind you that it's just those who have been involved in the management of state security activity. §. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Continue reading!]] And yes, those who have been involved in the management of state security activities before 89 should not be in the bond of state security after 89; it is simple as one. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs in the notary seat will replace Dezső Believing.]] Dear Parliament, Once again, what Congressman Vas said was not very grateful to what was the subject of the proposal itself. So I just want to ask you what Congressman Vas was thinking. Would you still like to maintain the right that if you have to re-elected President of the Republic, say in 2017, then let the former members of the central committee, perhaps like Paul Schmitt, choose from among the former Deputy Ministers of the Lazarus Government? Is that your intention? Or do you miss the fact that we did not extend this bill to the Prime Minister's advisors in a really foolish way? We are going to do it, and if you take it into consideration, there will be an amendment on the basis of which Gusztáv Zoltai will no longer be able to give advice to the Fidesz government. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place tomorrow. The debate now follows on from the Commission's report on the information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2013 and on the proposal to adopt the report on the operation of the institution. Opinion of the Economic Committee on its own motion H/1702 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion H/1702/2. has been received or is available to all of them on the network. The Commission's amendment, which concluded no detailed debate, was not submitted to the present proposal, nor was it initiated by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Dear Parliament, Mr Bencsik, rapporteur of the Economic Committee, will be the first to address the Commission's position in his opening speech. However, before I give the floor to the Member, I should like to draw his attention to the fact that there is a ten-minute time frame for speaking in the debate and closing together, and I therefore respectfully ask that, if he is going to say a closing word, he should share this time frame in such a way as to give time to do so. Thank you very much. Mr. János Bencsik has the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.10]]
u2014-11-10-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, The Parliament's Economic Committee is the House Rule 84. At its meeting on 5 November 2014 as a designated committee pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, the information provided by the State Audit Office carried out a detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the operation of the institution in 2013. The committee during the in-depth discussion of the resolution house rule 45. § 1 () discussed the amendment contained in the annex to the report and examined whether it was in conformity with the House Rule 42 of the Decision. The Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 5 November 2014. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I thank you for this rapporteur's speech and I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, if you wish to conclude, you have a time frame of 9 minutes. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has indicated that it does not wish to speak. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. Time frame: Fidesz 17 minutes, KDNP 8 minutes, MSZP 9 minutes, Jobbik 9 minutes, LMP 5 minutes, and 2 minutes for independents. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I would first like to address the Members who have made themselves known in advance in writing. The first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The committee received an amendment from the representatives of the MSZP, István Józsa and his fellow Members tabled an amendment, the content of which was to carry out certain investigations by the SAO, to conduct these inquiries? By the way, did they suggest acceptance, too? , which was not accepted by the committee by the fact that the SAO's report was satisfactory and proposed in the committee's proposal for a resolution that Parliament should adopt the SAO's report, inter alia because, following the adoption of the new Court of Auditors Act which entered into force in 2011, the State Audit Office was substantially renewed in order to be able to effectively and effectively promote the transparency and accountability of public finances. The number of audits increased significantly compared to 2012, so in 2013 the State Audit Office published 192 reports instead of 112 Court reports carried out in 2012. In 2013, 347 recipients were proposed by the State Audit Office on the basis of a finding based on 2249 measures. Compared to previous years, more and more places have started to put public money in order, and more and more good practices have been discovered by the audited. In 2013, the State Audit Office received a total of 318 public-interest notifications or complaints, of which 151 notifications concerned the area related to municipalities. Nearly 38 percent of the notifications concerning municipalities were related to municipal asset management. There have been or are ongoing investigations in 29 cases in connection with the reports made by the State Audit Office in previous years or with notifications to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is precisely because the work has become much more effective and has also had a broader social orientation for the work that has been done with education, education and the organisation of conferences, so that we can conclude that the State Audit Office has complied with the legal requirements and has contributed to the transparency of public finances through its work. That is why we are proposing and asking that the Economic Committee adopt its proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am speaking to Mr István Józsa of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-197	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Péter Cseresnyés quoted almost precisely the amendment by the MSZP, but he did not see the substance, which was formulated in point 1 of the amendment, because this concerns the fact that we propose that the Parliament acknowledge that the State Audit Office has fulfilled its legal obligation to report to Parliament. Is this a little bit tighter than what you're suggesting that the Court of Auditors has fulfilled all its legal obligations, because in those points? in the next few points? Let us explain, in which we believe that you have failed to fully fulfil your responsibilities, just as you have mentioned, so that public finances are transparent. I do not want to refer to the SAO's inspection obligations with regard to the latest processes, the NAV, because this is finally the 2013 report, but in 2013 it would have been possible to examine very much the use of the HUF 3000 billion private pension assets, which you have entrusted to a very well-sounding pension reform and debt reduction fund, which has made use of 3000 billion so-called in 2011, 12 and 13 as well. Only this very significant amount of public money is the debtor of the State Audit Office. So we believe that if we take this reporting obligation seriously and that the State Court of Auditors has a significant role to play in ensuring transparency in public finances, then I think it is safe for Parliament, as Parliament's body, to require the State Court of Auditors, to carry out these tasks. Similarly, the very significant use of public funds was reported by the contracts between the Hungarian State and E.ON in 2013. They could also be investigated by the State Audit Office on the basis of a complaint, because we made such a complaint on the part of the MSZP fraction, because we do not find it reassuring at all that hundreds of billions of forints have been spent in such a way that they are not in a relationship with real market value, nor were they even willing to compare it with appropriate independent expert opinions. So we think that this is absolutely necessary. Similarly, the issue of concession rights granted under the tobacco concession law that we have criticised many times, or the national tobacco sales law, is also an area where there have been a lot of problems and the State Audit Office has not carried out any control, although this legislation has created a property element representing tobacco concessions rights, which is now part of public property, so it would not be possible to distribute it on the basis of party preferences. So we also proposed this in the amendment in order to carry out an additional audit. [[17.20]] So the National Assembly is the Court of Auditors Act 3. Paragraph 3 (a) of the Act requires the State Audit Office to take the view that Article 5 of the Court of Auditors Act provides that: Should the National Bank of Hungary carry out its tasks under Paragraph 10 of the Act? "MNB"? Its management in 2013 and 2014 and its activities not covered by the core tasks of the MNB, in particular the monitoring and reporting of the property purchases, foundation grants and communication costs of the Hungarian National Bank, shall be submitted to the National Assembly by 15 March 2015. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank has repeatedly justified it as the owner of the decisions allowing these 200 billion-dollar foundational uploads, and now another 10 billion-dollar fund-use, not to mention the purchase of 30 billion forints worth of art, that they are doing this entirely legally, because they are not prohibited by the National Bank Act. At the same time, in our view, it does not allow it, because they are aliens from the usual responsibilities of the Hungarian National Bank, and they are not named in the Hungarian National Bank Act, which could give us permission to do so. What if it's the State Audit Office? As in the body of the National Assembly? You do your job according to the law, then these processes, these decisions must also be carried out in the case of the Hungarian National Bank. We believe that the period we have set for doing this work by 15 March 2015 and presenting it to the Parliament is quite realistic. In view of all this, I would ask our fellow Members, in line with the demand of the public, with the pressure of the public, to have heard the speeches of yesterday's mass demonstration, to what the Hungarian public demands, to have a clear and transparent operation in the operation of the National Tax and Customs Office, to do these investigations, both in terms of the proposals put forward in our amending proposal and in terms of the functioning and processes of the NAV. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-10-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Bencsik if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place tomorrow between the decisions. The 2012 CCIV on Hungary's central budget for 2013 will now follow. The Commission's reports on the implementation of the Act and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The submission was made in T/1143. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The report by the Committee on Budgets, as designated committee, on the detailed debate is set out in Article 24 of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Budgets. and the report by the committees involved in the debate is T/1143/17-23 and T/1143/25-31. is also available on the network. T/1143/33. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/1143/34. All of you could also get to know it from the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets will be the first to take the floor in the debate. The rapporteur of the committee, including the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, may speak within a total time frame of 60 minutes with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the committee, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-199	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The detailed discussion of the draft closing act was also held by all Standing Committees with the exception of the immunity committee and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary. The Committee on Budgets, the other Standing Committees and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary are designated committees for discussion. The resolution house rule is 94. The rapporteur appointed by the Committee on Budgets for the presentation of the summary report shall also present the opinions of the negotiating committees. During the detailed discussion, the negotiating committees found that the bill and its provisions were in line with the House Rule 44 of the Decision. § 1 of the Law, thus the bill meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, the content and form of the law, it is in line with the unity of the legal system, it complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law, and it complies with the professional requirements of the legislation. An amendment was tabled to the bill, which was discussed by the Committee on National Inclusion and the Committee on Budgets as designated committees, and the amendment was not supported by any committee. With the exception of the Committee on Budgets, no committee has tabled a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate. Opinions of the negotiating committees. The opinion of the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee and of the Committee on Legislative Committee shall be as follows. In accordance with Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, the government prepared and submitted the draft closing act and, in compliance with the deadlines laid down in the Public Finance Act, the implementation of the 2013 central budget was in line with the legal requirements, and the figures in the bill are reliable. It can be concluded that the budget has been implemented in line with unforeseen events. With the adoption of the 2013 budget, the government continued to solve the financial problems inherited from previous governments, the correction of public finances, resulting in Hungary being released from the 9-year excessive deficit procedure in June 2013. In addition, this has been achieved by the country's turn of economic growth, its path of economic growth, and the burden on families and workers has also been reduced. From the point of view of budgetary discipline, Hungary has become one of the best performing countries in the European Union. In the last three years, our country's deficit-to-GDP ratio has been below 3 per cent, and the general government deficit according to the EU methodology was 2.4 per cent. Last year's macroeconomic processes were also more favourable than expected and much more favourable than the EU average. Inflation was also more favourable than planned, with prices rising by 1.7 percent on average in 2013, which contributed significantly to the rise in real earnings and pensions. The number of employees increased significantly in 2013. The impact of economic growth was also reflected in the current account balance, as after the 1.9 per cent surplus in 2012, an active amount of 4.1 per cent was created in 2013. The country's debt ratio decreased from 78,5 percent in 2013 to 77,3 percent in the previous year. This was despite the fact that the euro exchange rate was less favourable. In the early two thousand years, we were the first in this respect, and today we were among the first in the European Union countries. [[17 .30]] The consolidation of the budget has been carried out in such a way that, despite this, the economy has not shrinked but is on a growth path. Instead of the planned 0.9 percent, the economy has expanded by one and a half percent in the last year. In total, the budget had to be amended twice, but they were essentially designed to achieve positive and unplanned objectives, such as the purchase of E.ON, the debt consolidation of local authorities and the launch of the pedagogical career model, and the provision of additional resources for the savings cooperative system. The drugstore closed last year with significant savings, and the cost of hundreds of medicines could be reduced. That's what created the source to raise the wages of health workers. Basically, the amount of expenditure on health has not changed, but there have been major changes in its structure. Overall, 2013 was characterised by budgetary stability, coupled with significant economic growth and low inflation. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 29 October 2014. The Committee on Budgets has tabled a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, and the amendment proposal has tried to improve the situation of local authorities, since a rule on the calculation of interest relating to budgetary support has been clarified, thereby giving municipalities a positive assessment and positive discrimination. In 2013, a new municipal financing system was established. In this new system, with regard to the provision of kindergarten tasks, if local authorities have called down 10 per cent more than the actual amount due for the wage support of kindergarten teachers, they can repay this 10 per cent without a penalty rate to the central budget. If an amount of more than 10 per cent has been called, they will have to repay an increase in interest. This 10% limit did not apply to the operating aid of the kindergarten. Therefore, if more resources were called down to the management of kindergartens by the municipalities, as far as the item outside the wage is concerned, they would have to repay the central budget with interest. The amending proposal concerns the possibility for local authorities to repay not only preschool teachers' wage subsidies, but also preschool operating grants, without interest, in the case of 10 percent overcalls. The Committee on Budgetary Affairs, acting in the role of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, supported this proposal for an amendment closing this detailed debate and expressed a further intention to amend it at the meeting, which was included in the summarised amendment proposal. The point of the amendment is that the amount calculated for the settlement of the public education allowance for 2013 will be included in this amendment following the conclusion of the consultations with the churches. Opinions of committees relating to the debate. During the detailed debate, the Committee on European Affairs concluded that the implementation of the budget in 2013 met the main conditions of the Maastricht criteria, the general government deficit below 3 per cent and the declining government debt. With regard to the use of EU funds, the Committee underlined that last year EU funding amounted to HUF 1583.8 billion. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 21 October 2014. The Committee on Culture: the 2013 budget report for the institutions falling within the competence of the Committee was found in order by the State Audit Office. It concluded that institutional internal control had improved, that resources had been used properly and for the purpose of their destination. Its financial background was particularly high in the areas of the Committee's responsibilities, and this is due to the context of budgetary and tendering systems. In the field of public education, higher education or the cultural and sport sector, there have been several improvements, which I could support with a long series of concrete examples. Therefore, significant increases in resources can be booked both in education and in culture. Compared to the previous one, the 2013 discharge, in addition to being naturally compatible with the legal system, is an acceptable piece of legislation for the committee. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 21 October 2014. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs: the Government prepared and submitted a draft discharge law in accordance with Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Public Finance Act, thus complying with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law. The closing bill was submitted at the statutory level laid down in Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, so it fits into the legal system. It does not violate obligations arising from international law and EU law. The closing accounting bill is the 61/2009 legislative proposal. It was prepared in compliance with the IRM Regulation, so the judicial portfolio also checked it during the administrative consultations, thus complying with the professional requirements of the legislation. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 21 October 2014. The Committee for Sustainable Development: the Committee, examining Annex 1 to the bill, concluded that this was in line with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 28 October 2014. Opinion of the Economic Committee: the Committee examined the entire bill and concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 28 October 2014. The National Security Committee has examined the House Rule 44 of the Decision in respect of the structural units it has designated. Paragraph 1 of this Article applies. On this basis, it can be concluded that the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, complies with the obligations arising from EU law, international law and the requirements of law-making, while being in line with the legal system as a whole. The Commission agrees with the State Audit Office's finding that the implementation of the 2013 central budget complies with the legal requirements, that the discharge bill is well-founded and that the data contained in the bill are reliable. For the four national security services under the control of the Committee, the budgetary resources necessary for the proper functioning were also provided in 2013. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 28 October 2014. The Defense Committee has determined that the bill complies with the resolution house rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 29 October 2014. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the current representative of the Government and the House Rules of Decision 44. On the basis of its position on the implementation of the four requirements set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1, according to which the bill meets all of them, the committee concluded that it did not see any obstacle to the adoption of the bill. As the rapporteur of the committee expressed in Parliament's speech, the Committee has developed this opinion without responsibility in the adoption of the 2013 bill, as it did not play a role in the preparation of the bill. However, from the point of view of the committee, the study of the structure of the closing bill proved essential for the preparation of the 2015 budget bill to be submitted for the hearing. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 29 October 2014. The Committee on Agriculture shall be composed of T/1143. CCIV 2012 on Hungary's central budget for 2013 During the examination of the bill on the implementation of the Act, the Committee did not detect any deficiencies which contradict the provisions of the House Rules No 10/2014. Parliamentary Decision No 44 Paragraph 1 of this Article. [[17.40]] Article 2 (17.40) The bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, since it has been drawn up in compliance with the legal conditions laid down in Article 36 of the Fundamental Law and with the deadlines laid down in the Public Finance Act. The bill fits into the regulatory environment and does not violate our obligations under international law or EU law. The proposal is made in compliance with the existing rules on the drafting of legislation, thus complying with the professional requirements of the legislation. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 29 October 2014. The Social Welfare Committee is the bill 9-18, 20, 21 and 24. Having examined its sections and Annexes 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, it concluded that they comply with the rules of the House of Decisions 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 29 October 2014. The Judicial Committee, examining the bill, concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. § 1 and then the debate was closed on 30 October. The opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion: the Hungarian Government also sought to achieve the economic policy objectives set at the beginning of the cycle in 2013. Accordingly, the budget deficit, the reduction of public debt and the improvement of the country's competitiveness have been kept low in the last year as well. The rate of growth of exports and imports was the same. The growth of Hungarian exports of 5.9 percent was higher than in 2013 as well. It is an outstanding result that the number of people employed increased last year, with a corresponding increase of 4.6 percent in the number of people employed in the public sector being linked to an increase in the number of people employed by the public sector, while growth in the competitive sector was 0.4 percent. Overall, the unemployment rate declined to 10.2 per cent compared to the previous year's figures. And that's a 0.7 percent drop. The goals set in the area of national policy have been met, for which Hungary's government provided sufficient resources in 2013. Balanced use of resources can also be observed in institutions serving important national policies such as the KMKF, the Balassi Institute, cross-border development programmes, support for cross-border education and cultural tasks or support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 30 October 2014. Opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development: In accordance with Article 36 of the Fundamental Law, the Government prepared and submitted the draft closing act in accordance with the deadlines laid down in the Aht., thus complying with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law. The closing bill was prepared with the provisions of the IRM Regulation 61/2009 on the drafting of legislation, and the judicial portfolio was also checked in consultation, thus complying with the professional requirements of the legislation. The committee closed the debate on the bill on 28 October 2014. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. As a result, I would like to ask this House to support the bill, following the presentation of the summary opinions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion is presented by Mr László Szakács from the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In our view, the proposal for a closing account that has just been submitted does not comply with the House Rule 44. § (1) (d) the condition of compliance with the professional requirements of the legislation, subject to the fact that the internal coherence of the accounts is incomplete. The Bethlen Fund figures are not in line with the figures in the chapter book on Bethlen Gábor Fund, B/802 on the activities and operation of Bethlen Gábor Fund in 2013 As compared to the figures in the accounts, the figures in the accounts are completely different from the figures in the accounts. In 2013 the Bethlen Gábor Fund spent HUF 4 billion, 442 million, instead of HUF 100 thousand, on providing educational and education support of HUF 4 billion, 316 million, 900 thousand. In fact, instead of HUF 5 billion, HUF 927.5 million, 5 billion, 746 million spent 100 thousand forints to support institutions of national importance. The closing account does not explain the difference of HUF 125.2 million or HUF 181.4 million between the individual appropriations in this respect, but these differences have a fundamental impact on both the main numbers of the chapter of the Bethlen Gábor Fund and the main numbers of the closing account as a whole. In our view, however, the house rules are 44. § (1) (a) does not comply with the condition of compliance with the substantive and formal requirements of the Fundamental Law, given that the transparency of the functioning of public finances has not improved in 2013. Although the Fundamental Law provides that the government should have implemented the central budget in a legal, practical manner, with the effective management of public funds and with the provision of transparency, we believe that the 2013 budget has been implemented by the Orbán government's unpredictable, unfounded and dilettant policy. In this context, the budget was amended 7 times in 2013 following its adoption. Hungary did not fall behind from the centre of Europe or from regional competitors in 2013. Families and businesses taxed more than 6.1 percent, with a total of HUF 6 billion,861 million,800 thousand more taxes in 2013 than in 2012. Originally, an increase in GDP of 1.6 per cent was projected by 2013, of which it increased by 1.1 per cent, while GDP increased by 1.1 per cent last year. This 1.1 percent increase in GDP also has three elements. This is mainly due to the increase in agricultural production, which in fact brings about the pull of an excellent year after the previous very bad year. Second, after the multi-annual recession, mainly EU-funded building orders for public orders have raised GDP performance. The third is the dynamic development of the automotive industry. These three together accounted for 1.1 percent of GDP growth. In our view, this does not give rise to such pride, especially because, for the whole of last year, economic activity did not reach the level two years earlier, as GDP decreased by 1.7 percent in 2012. Thus, it is not very encouraging that the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased by 1 percent over the last three years. 2013 showed spectacular results in employment statistics, but only stagnation in the labour market. The number of public workers is now more than 200,000, and this means that the number of employees in institutional statistics is 7.5 per cent of the number of public workers. Another feature of the proposal is that about one third of the 300,000 Hungarian workers working abroad, 100,000 people, are considered to be employed in the labour market. The average gross earnings of full-time workers in the national economy in 2013 amounted to HUF 230 700, which is 3.4 percent more than in the last year. In the competitive sphere it is HUF 242 200, which exceeds the previous year by 3.6 percent. The average income is 6 percent higher than the public, which is a thin consolation, since consumer prices have increased by 1.7 percent in recent years and real earnings have only increased by 3.1 percent in recent years. [[17.50]] Taking into account the fact that family tax incentives have not been able to obtain much more money, especially compared to 2012, and taking into account the whole career, we are unfortunately not as happy as we have heard before. Real earnings, calculated taking into account family tax incentives, increased by 2.6 percent overall in 2013, of which 3.2 in families without children, 2.2 in families with one child and 1.8 percent in families with two children, i.e. statements from the government's family-friendly tax system on the high support of families with more children, are not at all supported by earnings statistics. The distorted system of personal income tax favours high-income earners to such an extent that the family tax relief cannot offset it. Actually, that's what happened. The increase in real income in 2013 was only sufficient to partially offset the fall in income in the previous year. In the whole of the national economy last year, real incomes were 0.9 percent lower than two years earlier. In families with no children, real income fell by 0.5 percent during this two - year period, 1.6 percent in families with one child, 1.4 percent in families with two children, while in families with three or more children it practically stagnated by only 0.1 percent. In the two-year perspective, the government's family-friendly tax system was based on the fact that in the majority of families with children, real income was reduced more than in families without children. The 2013 discharge bill is a clear proof that the Orbán government had already planned the 2013 budget badly, it failed after a month and a half, and it was amended seven times this year. In 2013 the government presented the budget proposal already in July, ignoring all professional aspects. Early submission was justified by the government to reflect the stability and predictability of the economy. Instead of stability and predictability, however, there was total chaos in the preparation of the budget. During the six months leading up to its adoption, the budget proposal has been rewritten several times, with nearly a hundred amendments being tabled from the government side alone. Different ideas, ideas, action plans, packages, often conflicting changes have resulted in the fiscal planning process becoming untraceable and chaotic. But let's get him in line. In July, the government submitted the draft budget law without having already had a significant part of the information needed for it. After the Parliament adopted the main numbers of the budget before the summer holiday, the majority of Fidesz abolished certain guarantees of the Public Finance Act in order to allow the government to overwrite the main numbers in some cases. The government has previously said that the planning process will be subject to the fact that if it breaks, if it breaks, the deficit target can be maintained and, to this end, it has carved the maximum deficit in stone in a two-thirds stability law. The majority of governments amended the Stability Act, announced as a pledge of stability, just before the adoption of another legislative amendment, in order to make the deficit bigger than the previous ideas. We are talking about HUF 188 billion, so the deficit has increased compared to the original proposal. Even just before its adoption, the proposal changed to hundreds of billions of dollars. In the great rush, even the government contradicted itself, as it justified the subsequent amendment of the main figures by saying that it was necessary and necessary to eliminate the excessive deficit procedure, but the amendment was about raising the deficit target by HUF 188 billion. After the substantive general and detailed debate of the bill had already taken place, and the Parliament had no way of negotiating it any more, the government came up with a 92-page bill three days before the adoption, which contained amendments to 46 laws, and changed the foundations of the budget so far radically. The 2013 budget of the Orbán government was also about brutal austerity. There has been a trillion-dollar withdrawal from health care, education, pension and social care, and producers and consumers' incomes have simply been inflame. In 2013, we paid more taxes than we did when the government changed in 2010, but the centre of gravity of the increase was moving towards the millions of low incomes, and they were the most sensitive. Earlier, Fidesz said that Fidesz would cut taxes. Compared to this, tax laws have changed on average every two weeks, and the number of new taxes introduced by Fidesz, the tax on cheques, insurance tax, utility tax, telephone tax, chips tax has come close to thirty, but I will no longer list them. One thing's for sure, we're a long way from a beer mat. Hungary's competitiveness has not improved either. Fidesz promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, compared to which Hungary's position in all international competitiveness comparisons remained virtually unchanged. Instead of the 4.2 percent originally planned, inflation became 1.7 percent due to artificial regulatory interventions called the reduction of the overhead. Last year's public finances have clearly shown that public debt is not on a downward path. In addition to modest economic growth and temporary low inflation, nominal government debt growth did not allow for a reduction in gross government debt compared to gross domestic product, with a slight increase in current priced GDP. But with considerable creativity, the government solved the problem by the end of the year and artificially reduced the level of public debt. In the last days of 2013, two companies held part of their sovereign debt back to the Government Debt Management Centre for a few days, so they were not included as debt items in the books. Thus, the debt of the central budget decreased from HUF 22 728 billion on 6 December to HUF 21 999 billion by the end of the year, i.e. by HUF 729 billion, and then, three weeks later, on 24 January, the government debt increased again to HUF 22 862 billion, i.e. by HUF 863 billion in a short period of time. Accordingly, at the end of 2013, the gross government debt amounted to 79,2 per cent of GDP and stood at 85 per cent at the end of June 2014. It's a very expensive method of self-deception. There appears to have been a positive change in investment activity. The increase in investment has been driven by a significant increase in public orders, which have mainly been implemented through EU funding. In recent years, the cost of operating the Hungarian state has increased both in absolute and in proportion, while reducing social welfare expenditure. That's not a good message either. While the total expenditure on public finances in 2010 was only 49,9 percent of GDP, which was not low in international comparison, so, according to the 2013 final report, public finances reached 53.5 percent of last year's GDP, i.e. the state has increasingly settled on the economy in recent years, and this is also well indicated by the increase in redistribution rates. As regards functional expenditure, the ratio within the budget may be determined as follows. Instead of 61.5 per cent of welfare expenditure in 2010, only 56.7 per cent of the total is spent on welfare functions, which means a reduction from 30.7 to 30.3 per cent of GDP. What they are proud of is the recovery of health and education, we have to say that health spending has increased slightly, namely by 0.1 per cent in terms of GDP over three whole years. [[18.00]] Social security and pension expenditure received HUF 4963 billion last year, which is 17.1 percent of GDP, which is a 0.3 percent decrease in reality. Government debt management expenditures amount to 8.6 percent of total expenditure, which is a significant increase compared to 4.2 percent in 2010, with an absolute amount of thousands of billions, or 1338.8 billion forints. However, we spend no less on the operation of the state, in 2010 we spent 15.3 percent, in 2011 we spent 19.1 percent, in 2012 15.1 percent, and in 2013 we managed to increase it again to 16.8 percent. This means 600 million forints of taxpayers' money, i.e. government and ministries' spending has increased sharply, spending on budget and financial services within the public functions. The State Audit Office has also been mentioned. In our view, NFA and MNV Zrt were severely criticised by the State Audit Office's 2013 investigation. its internal control system, the AJBH's report was provided with a negative clause, and the NFÜ's institution report was made with an awareness-raising remark. Overall, however, the SAO has not been able to overcome these details in its opinion and has not examined the economic policy of the new government. This left a significant gap in its assessment and did not fulfil its social role. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-10-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking now, Mr András Tállai State Secretary... [[András Tállai: Only at the end.]] Secretary of State, as you wish. [[András Tállai: I want to end it.]] So Mr State Secretary points out that he will evaluate the speeches in the closing words within a 10-minute time frame. Then it is time for the speeches by the Members. They first came forward in writing against the time frame and then the push-button applicants will speak. I give the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Tamás László. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-203	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a member and rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, I would like to briefly address two amendments. The summarised amendment, Article 1143/33. It also contains the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close the detailed debate that has been tabled previously, namely: 1143/23. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Budget Committee is the 2012 CCIV on the 2013 central budget. T/1143. The EESC proposes an amendment, which summarises the number of legislative proposals. This is said to be the 21st bill. A new paragraph 4 is proposed. This is about a very specific issue, namely the need to clarify the interest rate calculation rule for the unlawful use of budget support by local authorities, published in the 2013 Budget Act. The second is that after public education institutions maintained by ecclesiastical legal entities, established churches are entitled to a one-off public education supplement of HUF 5 billion 801.1 million as a settlement of public education grants in 2013. The reason for this is that, with regard to the clearance of additional aid, the amount calculated as the settlement of public education grants will be included in the present amendment following the conclusion of the consultations with the churches. I would ask this House to vote in conjunction with these two amendments in the 2013 Act on Derivative Accounts. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács is coming from the MSZP Group in a nine-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-205	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There was only one reason why I asked for the floor after presenting the previous minority opinion, because I did not want to go beyond what was in it. But other than that, we found another flaw. Based on the 2013 final report, GDP growth was 1.1 percent, and in my previous comment, my colleague Lajos Szűcs's consensual nodding was... [[For signal:]] No? that's not what I saw. But we are seeing a 1.5 percent increase in the bill on the 2015 budget. Now I see him nodding, so we're seeing a 1.5 percent increase in 2013. We know that the methodology for calculating this has changed, and the methodology for calculating this has changed. However, it must also be seen that this did not change the day before yesterday, did it not, last June or July the European Union's guidelines for macroeconomic planning and changes in its numbers changed. So we are suggesting that this problem should also be eliminated, because all this explanation, I think, is not enough in just one report. So now we see that the growth estimate for the 2013 budget was 1.7 percent; it is good that we did not take it at the time as a basis for 5 percent of György Matolcsy by 2012. The plan became 1.7, and then it became 1.1 in this respect, with regard to GDP growth, and then after the adoption of the accounts, the budget presented included 1.5 percent of the tables showing the macro-track. It was simply due to methodological changes, so it didn't perform 4 percent GDP growth is not better either. I think this needs to be explained and fixed in any way. I don't think there's any misleading information here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-10-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. The speaker, Imre Ritter, who has been asked by the minority committee, will now be speaking in a five-minute time frame. I would like to inform the House that Mr Spokesman will say the first few sentences in German, but then he will translate them for the minutes himself. That's my cue. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2014-11-10-207	Sehr geehrter Vorsitzende, sehr geehrtes Parliament. Ich begrüsse Sie herzlich im Namen des Nationalitäten Ausschusses und gestatten Sie mir, da? ich als Beauftragter Sprecher des Ausschusses unsere Meinung äussern kann. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and to express the opinion of our committee as the advocate requested by the Committee on Nationalities. I would like to start with the support of national civil society organisations, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions and ethnic identity. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs was 110 million HUF in 2013, which has not increased since 2002 or 12 years ago. The proposals submitted to the Human Resources Manager in 2013 and 2014 show that only a fraction, some a quarter of the legitimate subsidies requested, could be judged because of a lack of resources. The budget for 30 million HUF is even more limited in national minority mother tongue student camps; as a typical example, only 15 percent of legitimate German applications were allocated due to a lack of resources. This, I think, is an unworthy state. In the area of individual support, the Nationality Committee welcomes and welcomes the fact that several ethnic communities, Croatian, Slovak, Slovenian, have received support through the intergovernmental ethnicity joint committees in 2013. [[18.10]] At the same time, we also draw the attention of the legislative and government to the fact that this option does not exist in the majority of nationalities in Hungary, which will require the involvement of additional resources. Nationality public education institutions. The year 2013 was undoubtedly the most important and clearly positive change for us, with the fact that the support for national minority public education institutions maintained by national authorities increased significantly and became normative. For this, we thank you very much. Support for national minority self-governments. Changes in general government legislation in 2008 as amended by Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the Further legislative changes in 2011 and then the general government accounting changeover in 2014 continuously and permanently increased the costs of the financial administration. However, support for national minority self-governments was minimal between 2008 and 2010 and has not increased at all during the period of legislative changes and additional tasks in the last four budgetary years. Finally, support for local and regional minority self-governments. There was a significant change in the system of support for local and regional self-governments in 2008 by introducing a transition to task-based support. This? Quote? However, as a result, the overall operating aid rate changed to an impossible low amount in practice. On average, the annual operating support of municipal self-governments is HUF 221 833 gross, which corresponds to HUF 14 556 per month. In addition, this average operating aid, the smaller national authorities, receives only a part of it, a net monthly HUF 9,000. Some people are visual, so I'd like to show you 9,000. [[He's showing it with his hands.]] Not 10, 9 thousand forints a month, and they even pay bank charges for the bank account to be held. I think this situation is untenable, too. In summary, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, we note that, in addition to some praiseworthy and joyful changes affecting nationalities in Hungary in the 2013 budget, there are still decades of delays and disproportionateities that should be settled shortly in the 2015 Central Budget Act. On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, however, we propose the adoption and approval of the discharge law on the 2013 central budget. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-208	Here is the speech of the Members who have signed up with the press of the button. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Cook has already left the deck, but it's probably the apple in the numerology that we're talking about with the pear or the season with the guy. The adopted budget calculated an increase in GDP of 0.9 per cent, with an increase of 1.5 per cent. It is true that there is a difference in the EU method of calculation here, but it is still an increase of 1.1 per cent compared to 0.9 per cent of the actual, old calculation, plus 0.2 per cent. Compared to the old system, the growth in the new was 1.5 percent. When planning the budget, did the government predict an inflation rate of 5.2 percent and 1.7 percent? 'Cause the congressman here said a 1.7 percent of what he was supposed to say, but not about what he was supposed to say? Overall, it's a 3.5 percent increase again. These are facts, and it's good for the congressman to know. However, these were said at the committee meeting, since the representative of the government said these numbers, and Congressman? Can we say it here in front of the House? Without change, he has said the same nonsense, which he said at the parliamentary committee meeting, not revisiting his views, and I would like the House to be familiar with the facts. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Teleki. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that with Mr Ritter Imre speaking, I should agree that the situation has not changed very much since 2002 with regard to minorities, and I dare say that because the 2013 report shows this clearly and clearly. There are three levels of local government system in the local government: local minority authorities work within the municipality, there are also regional, county and national authorities. In each of the three you can see the image that the resources available are stagnating, but the process that would have really given you the opportunity to build is mostly backwards at the local level. So if we can read from the numbers, then we can see how little the local ethnic authorities have to work, and it doesn't matter now, not in the last year, but in the previous years it didn't matter how much settlement we were talking about. Therefore, I think that if we look at the territorial levels, we see the problem even better, because the county assemblies were not partners in the same way as the municipal authorities in many cases, so they abandoned the local minority local governments, so they didn't have much other resources than the state resources, the minimum state resources, even if we were to say that there was the possibility of drawing different funds from the task-based support. I'll talk to you about that later. So the territorial levels, if you like, have not been able to function in the past period, and you can see from the numbers, or you can see from the analyses that this is so, but otherwise, if we keep our eyes open and listen to the public, then we can also see that what I am saying is true. The situation with the national authorities is completely different. There, especially in the Roma municipality, there is a situation where the National Roma Municipality is highly favored by President Flórian Farkas and is therefore constantly given a priority budget. Compared to the other 12 nationalities, the budget is much less than the National Roma Municipality. Of course, I do not want to visualize that the National Roma Municipality may receive a great deal, but it is definitely disproportionate to the others. I'm not gonna ask you why, I'm gonna ask you someplace else what's going on. But one thing is certain: the local and regional levels are not synchronized with the national image. The third thing I want to talk about is task-based funding. It was clear and clear that around 2010 and 2008 we started to launch this task-based support so that municipalities where they carry out more activities and carry out more targeted tasks would receive additional resources to create different creative programmes that are essential for the maintenance of both language and culture. We can see from this that task-based subsidies have not been able to reach either local, regional or national authorities. As a result, I see that there is a fall in the budget in all areas, and the 2013 prospectus clearly shows this to me. Therefore, I think that it is here before us and we will see the budget for the year 2015; we will certainly see in it again what is going to happen to support the National Roma Municipality, which, because of Flórian Farkas, is now very much supported, but cooperation at local levels will not be clearly established because they cannot work and are unable to carry out activities by minority organisations or local governments that have been created to become partners either for the government or for the local government and to carry out joint tasks. [[18.20]] Is that why I think so? how can we see that local governments are also bled out? I do not see the possibility that any local government will be able to support local minority and minority self-governments beyond its powers. Therefore, it can be seen that what the population otherwise rightly expects of minorities will not grow to a great extent, so that as many creative programmes as possible can change the relationship between the majority and the minority. Therefore, I think that the present report, the draft law, can be very difficult to support, and I, of course, will not be able to support it, because I do not see in the 2013 lines what I wanted to see. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-10-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Szávay István is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, According to Jobbik, the proposed legislation does not and does not fully comply with the accounting principle of completeness, the current form and structure of the central budget does not ensure the principles of comparability or transparency. This problem was indicated by the State Audit Office when planning the budget last year; there are a number of points that were highlighted by the State Audit Office as early as last year. This also applies to national policy and to chapters on national policy. In this regard, I would like to say a few things and share them with you. When Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén took over this issue in 2010, inter alia, the establishment of the Bethlen Gábor Fund was justified by the inclusion in the budget of chapters for previously fragmented national policy purposes in a more transparent, more integrated common system. Well, that didn't work out. In addition to the Bethlen Gábor Fund for the management of foreign funds, resources will also be allocated through the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Prime Minister's Office, which is, of course, joyful. However, support schemes and policies operate in a separate, non-coordinated way, making the tendering process inaccessible and difficult in many cases, which, by the way, is being exploited by a number of people. You can regularly hear specific stories about how different Hungarian organisations from abroad are trying to obtain support from different sources for the same programs and events, which, of course, is excluded by law. The government did not, therefore, honour the promise of a unified treatment of foreign Hungarian affairs. It is also a problem that a significant part of the funds spent on foreign purposes have been allocated through the transfer of funds reserved for extraordinary government measures, which cannot therefore be calculated. I do not, of course, wish to speak out against the expansion of these resources, because, in terms of the last four years and your first government cycle, there has been no substantial increase, especially in terms of real value, in terms of external aid. At the same time, we do not think it is right and right that billions of HUF are being spent on this purpose, so that it cannot be anticipated in advance, whether it is so emphasized or not? I'm gonna say it again? on important issues such as support for foreign Hungarian higher education in a way that meant the creation of the Reformed College in Cluj, or the creation of the II. The expansion of the Ferenc Rákóczi College with a new wing. The two amounts exceeded HUF 2 billion in parentheses, adding that for those who know this question and have local knowledge, many of them are skeptical about whether the expansion of the building, purchase and renovation expenses of the College of Beregszasz actually justify HUF 500 million in support. However, we have drawn attention to these problems several times over the last few years, but unfortunately we have still not noticed any positive changes, which in fact makes it very difficult to use and spend money efficiently in foreign countries. For example, the lack of a single payment scheme promotes fishing in confusion rather than the interests of foreign nationals, and, in the long term, affects the future of Hungarian communities in a fundamentally negative way. It is a serious problem, and on many occasions, very, very many times in this House, we have already spoken about it, the system, problem of educational support, and the non-distribution of resources intended for this, and the repeated retention. Like last year, this year was not paid by family, or, more specifically, 22 400 HUF per child, despite the fact that this amount was included in the tender notice. In previous years, the hole was still plugged and the required HUF 720 million was secured for this purpose. They didn't do it last year and this year. This means that in the course of 20 years or more of unchanged education and education support, which serves to help, strengthen, support the Hungarian school election, this amount is now missing 10 400 HUF per child, which could otherwise have been taken from many sources, let us think of the 800 million HUF operating support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund or the sum of Jenő Szász's fake institution trapped in hundreds of millions of HUF budget. In this regard, I would like to welcome it very much, as I said at today's committee meeting, that the Secretary of State Potápi finally shows willingness after four years, and even expressed his intention to finally review the system of educational support, because it is a very serious amount, five billion forints a year, or would be the case if you would provide this in your total amount, but the use of which is highly doubtful and problematic whether you are actually going to the families, parents, who should have it, and really serve the purpose, given the Hungarian school election that you really should have. So I would like to welcome the rethinking of the system and the discussions on it from this place as well. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the group of the LMP, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, notary of the Parliament, is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-10-215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In the debate on the Commission reports and the summarised amendments, it should also be pointed out that Hungarian taxpayers paid a high price for the government's 2013 budget. The 2013 budget was based on cuts in previous years, including measures taken by all three Matolcsy packages, all previous tax increases and unfair tax changes, double the transaction fee, world record VAT and, like, 40 different taxes, the abolition of the tax credit. Since 2010, the Orbán government has made more than HUF 2600 billion in austerity, typically in the fields of education, social and health. This meant 260,000 forints a year each. With nearly 150 amendments, the LMP would have carried out a total restructuring of HUF 800 billion in the government's 2013 budget; the government's budget, because no amendment tabled by any opposition or social partners, such as trade unions, was supported by the competent majority committees of the Parliament. Unfortunately, in 2013, the government spent both hands on stadiums and other prestigious investments, while not caring for a minute about how the victims of austerity in recent years will recover. The 2013 budget included cuts in the social field. The government set the education system on a planned landing path, and in 2013 another ten billion were withdrawn from higher education. [[18.30]] In the local government sector, it is estimated that the state has taken 100-150 billion forints more than would have been justified, while spending billions more on government propaganda and spending more than ever on bureaucracy and the economic expansion of the government. These figures show that the Fidesz government's position of power is more important than investing in the country's future. We must also remember that the government has planned the 2013 budget without giving a say to either employees or social partners, even though they only asked that the government negotiate with workers, establish a crisis fund to deal with mass redundancies, promote access to work for those with disabilities. And what we're going to rub in the government's noses until it's finished is the lack of a national inventory, because how can we trust that the state will handle the common wealth it has with the care of a good host, until we know how much of the state's wealth directly or indirectly held. For the harmonious development of the country, the budget must be redesigned from the funds and a full budget screening carried out. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-10-216	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, notary. From the MSZP Group, Mr László Szakács is next, until the end of the remaining timeframe. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't mix the season with the guy, you have to argue with numbers. In 2013, the government of the tax reduction collected HUF 6861 billion more tax. Could he have done so from the newly levied tax of about 30, while selling as an economic success story in 2013 by 1.1 to 1.5 percent? Depending on the calculation technique? The economy has grown, but the economy has grown on average by 1 percent over the last 3 years. They did not support families who were so proud of and created a chaotic state in which no one knew in the budget where this budget was going and when it would be modified. A budget that's been amended seven times, that's not a stable budget, so I'm asking you to accept it, and that's a debate. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-10-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I am now speaking to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in this debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-10-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before voting on the amendments to the 2013 discharge bill, allow me once again to highlight what the most important budgetary and policy objectives for 2013 were. Dear House, The 2013 budget year was defined by two processes, as I pointed out in my expo. In the first half of 2013 Hungary was still subject to an excessive deficit procedure, so in the spring the government decided on measures to improve the general government balance in order to complete this procedure. In the course of the year, however, it has already become clear that, thanks to the economic growth that has started, these measures have proved to be excessive, thus providing the necessary additional resources in a number of areas. On this basis, in 2013 the general government balance was more favourable than the deficit target of 2.7 per cent according to the proposed EU methodology, with a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP. The government's commitment to reducing debt is also clear, as opposed to the opposition's views here. From 2010 onwards, the debt indicator has continuously decreased. The government has almost uniquely reduced debt in the European Union in recent years. In Hungary, the government debt decreased in 2013 for the third year, which was implemented outside Hungary in Latvia and Austria out of the 28 Member States of the EU. The development of public debt is assessed by both the European Union and other international organisations according to the methodology established in the Union, so for Hungary the indicator in the current autumn EDP report is examined and assessed by the Commission of the European Union. According to the report, the government sector's debt in proportion to GDP amounted to 80,9 per cent in 2010 and then gradually decreased and in 2013 only showed 77,3 per cent of GDP. Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the debate on the bill, several opposition representatives mentioned a high proportion of tax revenues. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both in cash flow and in the proportion of fiscal and fiscal revenues of public finances according to the EU methodology showed a lower value each year than before 2010. As a result of the government that took office in 2010, the budget's tax revenues decreased compared to the 2007-2009 years, from around 40% of GDP in 2012 to 38 percent of GDP in the previous government. It should also be pointed out that, despite adverse external circumstances, this has been achieved by dividing the burden by the government, i.e. involving monopolistic companies and sectors in the burden on the public. In recent years, the tax system has undergone a major transformation, with a shift from labour taxes to consumption taxes. In this context, instead of the previous personal income tax system, which is a penalty for increasing the tax burden on labour, while at the same time encouraging tax avoidance, a 16-percent, purely single-key and proportional family tax relief was introduced. Further achievements of the past year have also been the following. One of the biggest spending costs for families has been reduced, and this decline has continued this year. Pensions preserved their value and even increased their real value in 2013. Even in extremely difficult circumstances, the government has created an opportunity to expand the method of home creation and save families with foreign exchange credit in distress. The pedagogical career model was launched, with the possibility of raising the wages of health care workers. Finally, the public work programme integrating people in a hopeless situation into the world of work has also been significantly expanded. In conclusion, on this basis, it can be said that the government was also responsible for farming in 2013, which is supported by both macroeconomic and budgetary figures. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would now like to turn to the amendments supported by the Government. In this connection, we support the amendment of the Committee on the Budget of the Parliament, which sets out the amount to be paid to church public education institutions to settle the additional support for public education in 2013. We also propose to adopt a proposal from the Committee on Budgets that clarifies the rules on the calculation of interest linked to the budget support unduly used by local authorities. Dear Parliament, To conclude, I would like to thank the State Audit Office for its discharge audit work once again. I consider it very important that their findings have been formulated factually, professionally and in a manner that has also highlighted all the important things to be done that make a major contribution to tightening accounting discipline. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. I would ask that, together with the amendments proposed by the Government, the 2013 discharge bill be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the votes will take place tomorrow at the meeting. [[18.40]] The Commission's reports on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2013 and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now now under way. The separate motion of the Committee on Budgets was tabled by T/244. All persons on the parliamentary IT network can access it. Report by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee on the detailed debate T/244.5. They got it. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/244/7. I, and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/244/8. Also available on the website. The debate will be the first to present the position and minority opinion of the Legislative Committee in a 15-minute time frame, of which 7 minutes is the time frame of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-221	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/244 was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 6 November 2014. The draft law on the implementation of the 2013 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The Legislative Committee submitted 25 amendments and a summary amendment report to the bill with 4 sexes and 2 abstentions. The summarised amendment contains the clarification and legal proposals of the Cultural Committee, with the correction of the Legislative Committee. In this regard, it is worth noting in parentheses that the new institution of Parliament, the Legislative Committee, has, in practice, performed once again the legislative control task for which we actually created this last year. In the bill, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the Media Council provided detailed reports on their revenue and expenditure in 2013 and fully fulfilled its obligation to discharge accounts. Please support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr Zoltán Lukács. In other words, no minority opinion will be presented. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the Committee on Budgets. [[No one's reporting.]] No. The Government has indicated in advance, ladies and gentlemen, that it does not wish to speak; its presence is not mandatory in the debate on this item on the agenda. The designated Cultural Committee does not wish to present a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I would like to address Congressman Zoltán Demeter of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out, first of all, that the summarised amendment proposal for the draft law implementing the 2013 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority contains technical and text-oriented corrections. There has been no debate among Members in this regard. Jobbik initiated a substantive amendment, which, however, concerns the issue to be regulated in the Media Act, so that the Committees did not support the transparency of the legislation, bearing in mind the order of the legislation. Jobbik nevertheless maintains its amendment. We propose that Jobbik's initiative should not be supported by this House and that its proposal be submitted to the appropriate law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[On the sign of the Foreman of Novak:]] Yes, Mr President Novak, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The procedure in which an important state institution which spends taxpayers' money merely controls itself is unacceptable, which is why we have tabled the proposed amendment proposed by the representative of Fidesz, which is indeed reserved for a request for a faction. We would like the law to record now, in the context of the 2013 discharge, that the final accounts of the Authority for the implementation of the 2014 and subsequent years will be audited by the State Audit Office. It is easy to say what we have just heard here, that we should do this in a single motion, by amending another law, and as I read the minutes of the Committee on Budgets, I also found that Lajos Szűcs basically proposed this. Did he say that? Is that what I'm saying? In addition to having formal excuses, he would like to initiate that, and it turns out that it is also a formal excuse, so in essence Fidesz has only formal excuses. You may not be able to argue with the amendment that we have tabled, as you continue after your formal objections which you have not stated:. If the Member wishes to make such amendments, he should not do so to the report, but to the law itself, because it is therefore incomprehensible to us. What's the matter with you? said Lajos Szűcs, vice president of the Committee on Budgets, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. However, this is a cynical attitude because we know very well that if we initiate any amendments, it cannot be included in the series of amendments, it will be swept down at Commission level, so we will not be able to talk about this problem here in plenary. What we can talk about now, however, let me briefly argue for our amendment proposal. Indeed, the useful opinion of the auditor voluntarily commissioned by the NMHH cannot be regarded as an independent external audit, but as an internal audit, i.e. self-control. At present, the auditor's principal is the institution that prepares the accounts, the accounts, the NMHH pays the audit fee, and the auditor reports to him. That is why it is necessary that in the future the closing of the media institution be carried out by the Parliament's financial audit body, the State Audit Office, and submit its opinion on the audit to the Parliament. Moreover, there is absolutely no legal barrier to this proposal, and the current Court of Auditors law provides that the State Audit Office may be entrusted not only with its tasks but also with other laws. Of course, it can be said that this should be the media law, but why shouldn't it be the law? Therefore, I trust that there will be at least one or two Members in the Fidesz tomorrow, who will see the justification for this and dare to support such a proposal, even if it is expected to be wiped out in substance by paper form. However, we also have other criticisms about this report, since we have essentially not received detailed accounts, only chapter-related numbers, and this is particularly problematic for MTVA, where the settlement is settled with a single item of 60 billion. So, 60 billion forints, is that a line? And there's a settlement already? Can we vote on any kind of settlement? Is that what you call accounting or accounting? This is unacceptable. Moreover, the management of the fund remains completely opaque, regardless of this bill. His purely pro-government supervision is unacceptable. The effective functioning of the Fund should be managed by the Public Service Foundation, which could at least eliminate the benefit of the doubts surrounding its operation and ensure its supervision in a cheaper and more efficient way. And I still can't get back on the NMHH reserve of HUF 6 billion, which we read on page 23. I have already predicted in the preliminary debate on this 2013 budget that it is almost brazen that the NMHH will provide a reserve of 12 billion from a budget of HUF 35 billion instead of separating it for the fund, thus reducing, for example, the amount of the budget contribution. [[18.50]] While we are being distracted and squeezed in Hungary, this sector receives so much money that it literally cannot spend more than a third of it. Is that disappointing, too? And that's a much smaller amount of stuff, even though it could be bigger, the problem here is the reverse? that only HUF 57 million of fines were imposed on the Media Council, which is apparent from this bill. Originally, 245 million was planned, later modified to 153 million, and finally 57 million forints were achieved. Can we accept this account, this account? We can't accept it. Obviously, there are reasons for this, but it must also be said. Especially when you add what processes this will start. Next year, only HUF 21 million of fines are planned, although the domestic media services are obviously full of violations. It should be much more stringent and proactive, not just waiting for an outraged viewer to announce either because of too loud advertisements or any content that endangers minors, and we could list the various media laws and media constitution violations that I do not wish to discuss now, as hopefully it will be on the agenda in Parliament within a week or two, the content report of the Media Council, but here, in connection with the closing account, it should be said that these amounts are unacceptable. And here's a big loan of 63 billion forints, which hasn't been mentioned here in the National Assembly. In addition, it seems that this was not enough, because even in addition, nearly HUF 2 billion of loans had to be taken out. Finally, let me say that, while the classic big report on the implementation of the central budget is now on the agenda, it is right to ask why the Parliament does not deal with the financial report of the media authority as part or in conjunction with it. We know well that they are trying to prove that this is a so autonomous institution that the government has no responsibility for this, but we cannot, strangely, ask the government in media matters, in Parliament, say, an immediate question or interpellation, but we cannot ask the President of the Authority himself. So we're going to be pretty unwitting. And with this closing account, they're actually just strengthening this trend. It is unacceptable why a separate law on the administration's accounts is being passed, and the proposal is submitted by a parliamentary committee, not by the government. Why is there special legislation on the closure of this public institution? And why is the procedure completely different? I'll add, is that normal procedure? , such as the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or the Constitutional Court and other constitutional institutions, prosecutors, courts, Court of Auditors? Can we still list these organizations? If you have any problems with your doctor or pharmacist, please tell your doctor or pharmacist. In these cases, the procedure is perfectly normal, and as part of the Hungarian central budget, we can see the report, why do we have to negotiate this one separately? Perhaps a rhetorical question, but why is NMHH a state in the state? We know well that because they wash their hands and try to prove that the government is not responsible at any level, and we know very well that as politicians we are also experiencing the level of manual control, especially in public media, but because of the media law consisting of rubber paragraphs and the Media Council of only fidesz members, we certainly know that very serious whether it is self-censored or whether government interference is taking place in commercial media, while because of the lack of fines mentioned above, we also see that the Media Council is unfortunately not sanctioning the various other commercial media violations, either the most comprehensive, serious damage caused by gross violation of the law of balanced information, because this can't work even with the current democracy, even though the law requires that the media are ignoring it, and the Media Council doesn't sanction it? Is that what the closing account says? This gross infringement, the violation of the law on balanced information. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-226	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Lajos Szűcs, the notary of the Parliament, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-11-10-227	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, According to the house rules, the Committee on Budgets discussed the 2013 budget report of the National Media Authority and submitted it to the Legislative Committee, which prepared the Commission's opinions, after the amendments received. In view of all this, I ask this House to accept the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The votes will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now now under way. A separate motion by the Committee on Budgets T/1577. On the parliamentary IT network, all of them could reach it. The report of the Committee on Culture as a designated committee on detailed debate is T/1577/5. could have been reached or received. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1577/7. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/1577/8. can be found on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1577 at its meeting on 6 November. The draft law on the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority and 25 amendments and summary reports with 2 sexes and 2 abstentions were submitted. The summary amendment proposal contains the amendment proposal of the Committee on Culture, with technical improvements to the Legislative Committee. The submitted bill includes the budget of the Authority, the Media Council, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund, which ensures the effective and high-quality operation of these institutions in 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the members of the Committee on Budgets if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the Committee. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Of course, at the end of the ten-minute window, a representative of the Committee on Budgets may speak. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the government has indicated in advance that it does not wish to speak. I would also like to inform you that the designated Committee on Culture does not wish to present a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. During the debate? Like the resolution house rules say? There is no possibility of two-minute comments, and until the time frame is fully exhausted, all groups have the opportunity to make regular speeches. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, the first of them from the Fidesz Group to Mr Zoltán Demeter. Here you go, Congressman. [[19.00]]
u2014-11-10-231	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Is the proposed amendment to the draft law on the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority also summarised? would you like to stress it? it contains technical and text-focusing amendments, and the members of the committee agreed on this. There has been one substantive amendment, also from Jobbik, which, in our opinion, does not fall within the scope of the law, so Jobbik must take the initiative not here, but in the media law. Even so, Jobbik maintains its initiative. I propose that the Parliament do not support this in order to comply with the rules of the legislation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-10-232	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What does NMHH spend 20 billion forints on? There was such an interpellation in this House, Zsolt Nyitrai interpelled at a time when it was still possible to interpelle on this subject. I tried it myself, but it turns out that NMHH is really a superpower that doesn't owe anyone an explanation or a settlement, if we want to ask you what you're saving nearly HUF 12 billion for now. After four years of operation of the new media regime, the balance that we see now can be withdrawn, the former National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which is justified and established with a more efficient operation, now manages twice as many budgets, with some 32 billion, with a much larger apparatus, employing 605 people instead of 400 people. While the media authority and public media used to work together on an annual basis with a total of HUF 30 billion, the total revenue of MTVA's budget and expenditure is now increasing by HUF 3 billion, so compared to what was adopted last year, MTVA only represents HUF 80 billion. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] How does revenue develop and how is this transparent? There is also a step backwards from last year, because the NMHH last year has at least broken down the published frequency tenders to the concession block tender frequency, ATS tender frequencies, other frequencies and new frequencies. They didn't do that to us this year. In fact, they'd take half a billion more here. Last year's fact was HUF 18 billion 16 million, and next year's plan was HUF 18 billion 538 million. Just as it is difficult to imagine how they plan to do so, because, in the context of the above, and not least under the media law, the public authority or the media service basic fee should be established in proportion to the size of the media service reception area, and territorial conditions should also be taken into account and the purchasing power indicator should also be taken into account. Now, however, we do not know how these fees will be established. It's pretty simple, compared to last year, they were planning a little more. However, the Media Council will operate more inexpensively, with some HUF 100 million, but there is a noticeably less fine and penalty, as was said earlier in the debate, the fact of last year was HUF 57 million. By this year, only HUF 21 million will be transferred to this line. You can also think that this may already be included in the increased frequency fee for commercial channels, since it has been raised from 25 million to 65 million forints. In this year's budget, there is no mention of a fourth GSM network. Last year it cost about HUF 1 billion. There wasn't much to see out of this, other than the fact that five GOP applications were taken by companies registered in the same place. The NMHH will not be like this next year, but it will still reserve nearly HUF 6 billion, HUF 5.8 billion in reserve.This means that more than EUR 32.5 billion is now present in this system. Liquid money exceeding 90 days is generally considered to be an intervention reserve. I hope it doesn't happen. I hope this will not be the case, but in any case we need to ask what the NMHH reserve is for, because, as has already been mentioned, it is an office that does not belong to Parliament, but the Committee on Budgets is the rapporteur. Now we are being asked to reserve nearly one third of your budget to accept this, but the objectives of this are quite properly lost in the fog, for what purpose you are saving all this money for. In the end, László Kövér informed me of this, and it is safe to reply that you have submitted this budget, you have discussed it, we have not been here, and you have accepted this budget. This reigning power must now almost only report to itself, which, of course, has become one-party by the Media Council and its supervisory board, where I am now choosing, or rather factually speaking it, appointed members can decide almost everything, to say it more precisely: everything. The budget presented refers to the discretionary powers of the one-party principle of leadership, and we have no idea what this will be spent on. Meanwhile, the processes are well known, the public media has sunk into unprecedented depths, and now they're going to create two or three more channels. This means that the M1 will be placed in a strong middle field, because the new channels created will certainly have a lower view, so you can say that M1 has caught up with the middle field. Unmarked amounts make it possible for someone to spend 1 billion forints on a weekend in September, just remember. If there is such a reserve, there is, of course, a waste, as there is still a revolving loan of 4.2 billion forints, which was used to settle the debts accumulated between it and other melted-down parts of the public media. After four years, it is difficult to explain, especially to the extent of such a reserve and liquid amount, knowing why NMHH and MTVA owe their suppliers such a large amount of credit. The level of media service fees for non-national media service entitlements is HUF 33 billion lower. That's how much less people will support you. For such amounts, we are saying a reduction from 75 to 48 million forints, and at other times we are talking about billions. Media service providers who have previously played an important role for the local public are silent. We don't know what's gonna happen to these frequencies, we don't know if anyone's gonna run it. Not long ago, six local or regional radio stations were silenced. There is no answer to whether there will be progress in this. Because of all these doubts, we will not be able to support your budget proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-10-234	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to the next speaker, Mr President Novak.
u2014-11-10-235	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, From the New Testament, we know how Jesus criticized those who bury their talents - their abilities, their opportunities, and their opportunities. Well, it's a similar crime to feel that there's a serious provision of reserves in the NMHH that we can't find any meaningful explanation for. That is why we tabled an amendment, because it is amazing that more than HUF 11 billion of reserves are being provided instead of being used for meaningful purposes or even paid into the state budget if the authority cannot use this for meaningful purposes within its own framework. [[19.10]] And there are, indeed, a number of better proposals for amendment, which we will argue here in Parliament, which could be implemented from a fraction of this, but I would also recommend to the NMHH itself a few suggestions on what to spend it on, and that is why the Jobbik faction will maintain its proposal, which, by the way, does comply with the legislative rules, which is why it has not been rejected for a lifetime, without a substantive examination. For this reason, it is unacceptable for me to propose by Zoltán Demeter, a pro-government Member, that we bring this into the House in the form of an independent motion, in compliance with the legislative rules, because if we had not complied with the legislative rules, we would not be able to talk about it now. It would have been swept off because of anti-occupationalism, but this is not the case; it is merely that the government wants to avoid the substantive debate again, and it cynically says that we should not argue about it in the context of the debate on this proposal before Parliament, but that we should submit a motion that will never come to plenary. I mean, you guys are gonna wipe that out on a committee level. So, yes, here I am arguing for what, unfortunately, will be voted off tomorrow in paper form, but it is still our duty of conscience to speak out against such an amazing waste. After all, we see that the NMHH will receive HUF 32.4 billion in 2015 according to the plan, according to the bill, not only a detailed, generous plan has not been prepared. More than one third of the revenue is to be treated as operating reserves, essentially two types, for the year and for the following years as operating reserves, but the initiative to approve a reserve of more than one-third, in fact 34,4%, is unprecedented in the practice of state budgeting. So if, let's say, the central budget were to be prepared with such a reserve instead of using it, say, in order to stop Hungary's greatest tragedy, population loss, it would be around HUF 5000 billion to estimate what Hungary is not using anywhere, but to bury it nicely, and then someday there will be something we can use it for. As if there weren't so many things to do in Hungary. This would be obviously impossible at the level of the state budget, but if you can do this small-scale here, it still shows that there is a need for intervention here. This proposal shows that next year's budget of the media institution could be unsubstantiated, unjustified over-financing, and a waste-inspiration situation if adopted in its current form, of course, it is expected that it will be adopted in this way, so that they will actually give NMHH so much money that it is literally unable to spend it. However, we could provide tasks, goals, such as the introduction of free internet or the reduction of internet charges. It could also be an official task, as I would like to quote the closing words of one of their State Secretary, L. Simon László, the author of the Advertising Tax Act, when he said in response to the better ideas that if this continues like this, as we are now in the field of Internet services, Hungary will face a serious competitive disadvantage. Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows use the internet cheaper than we do here, and, by the way, in some places, Internet access is already greater than in many parts of the country. That's what L. Simon László said, but he said more. It's been a problem for many years. In France, Germany, Austria, income conditions are much higher than we do, and in fact, broadband access is cheaper. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area. We also ask the Minister and recommend that the government intervene with effective means in the market process, and that we do need to make it much cheaper to access the Internet and reach much wider layers and overcome the competitive disadvantage that is already felt. So, as a powerful tool of the government, your Secretary of State is asking for intervention, and we do not see this in the budget next year, for example. We do not see as an objective the introduction of free internet or the reduction of Internet charges, if, let us say, they are not intended to achieve it by means of public authorities, but specifically, let us say, with some kind of financial expenditure and grants, how this is planned to be done. We do not see any indication of this, but it would indeed be justified, because L. Simon László actually said all these things in response to my suggestions, in which I pointed out that in Hungary, Internet access charges in Western EU Member States are twice the price of Internet access. And if you look at income conditions, the situation is even worse, because in Denmark, for example, only EUR 20 is the average fee for a service for which we are talking about 54 euros, let's say, such a median access, a gross price, while there is a net average wage of EUR 4028 and we have EUR 475. This shows that the Hungarian Internet usage fee is actually 2200 percent more expensive than the Danish, if we also consider income relations. And with all that in mind, would you say that there is no authority here? I could argue this for a long time, but only in short terms, let me make a few more criticisms of this short time frame; again, it is very troubling that the individual items are not properly opened in one law. We must vote on it by seeing only chapter titles, the most outstanding again is MTVA's budget of 62 billion. Let's accept this, throw the reins into the horses, get 62 billion forints, whatever you want. Or are they making an unwatchable soap opera called Martians again? Instead of requiring, for example, the production of films with historical themes. Unfortunately, no historical films were made during the current or the previous Orbán government. Even during the Horn government, more was made, if you think, for example, that the Koltay film Honreservation was made at that time, and you could also list the Fidesz government between .98 and 2000 when historical films were made, but the current and the fidesz government, which is already known as the past eight years, is absolutely suppressing any such initiative, so that the public service media do not actually make such programmes either. In fact, there is only 25-27 billion forints for programming in the first place, but we can't get this from this proposal either, so we need to contact various professional organizations to find out, and this 25-27 billion forints includes internal and external productions, which are distributed between televisions and radios. Unfortunately, we know from the complaining middle managers of public media that this is not enough. And so you can see, if you see MTVA's budget of HUF 62 billion, that only a fraction of this is available for programming. And in the meantime, it's a small sum, but that's the problem, that it's a small sum, that there's only HUF 21 million of fines scheduled for the whole year for fines. This is the clearest sign of the government's softness, especially considering that only 57 million forints of fines were collected last year, although much more was planned, right, multiples of this, and this is constantly decreasing. So you actually agreed with the commercial media, and you don't have to be afraid of any fines. On page 5 of the proposal, TV2 and RTL's media service fee is only HUF 65 million, so it is a ridiculous amount. On this basis, this budget proposal is unacceptable to us. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-236	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. You don't seem to be...? Nándor Gúr has come forward. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-237	I just want to say one thought. So what is said in line with the budget, the magnitude of each item, which is intended to be approved without any justification, is unacceptable. And my second sentence is about what this office really is, this authority. It seems to be an authority under the supervision of Viktor Orbán. Neither the government, nor the parliament, Parliament, almost no one has any authority, scope to control the processes. In Hungary, I believe that the media have been very cornered in recent years, crashed into a deep pit, created a situation where the public service media may no longer be called public service, where it is cornered by trade, and where this situation has developed in terms of financial items, as has been mentioned. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-238	I am asking my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment. [[No signal.]] No. Then the debate is closed. I would like to ask if the Committee on Budgets would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. Yes, here's your word, Congressman. [[19.20]]
u2014-11-10-239	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill on the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2015 was submitted by the Committee on Budgets. The only amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee, which was a text amendment, was adopted. We have already drawn attention in the Committee on Budgets, and then in the Legislative Committee, to the possibility of submitting the amendment tabled by Mr Novak elsewhere, since this request should not be dealt with in the budget. The congressman didn't take that now. Nevertheless, I ask the Parliament to adopt the Authority's single budget proposal in support of 2015. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-10-240	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. A separate motion by Members Katalin Csöbör and György Balla T/1427. You can view it on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/1427/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1427/7. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/1427/8. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-11-10-241	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed T/1427 at its meeting on 6 November 2014. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement The Committee presented a bill amending the Act and a proposal for amendment and a summary report with 30 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The amendment, supported by the opposition, contains a clarification proposal from the Judicial Committee. If the Parliament adopts the proposal, it will be possible in the future not to apply the provisions of the eviction moratorium if the auction buyer or recipient of the residential property is a local government or an economic entity in which the State or local government holds a majority, separately or jointly a 100% share. In this case, the municipality must undertake in writing to renovate or renovate the residential property within two years of its acquisition and to tender the person who works in the municipality of the place of residence for the purpose of job creation, labour retention and residence, of course, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the local government's regulation on leasing. As we have learned in recent weeks, the executives have not only tried to fulfil their task in terms of legislative possibilities, but we have an obligation to create clear legal conditions, whether it is a comprehensive settlement of the area or even such exceptions. That is why I am asking for the support of the proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-242	Thank you. I'm going to ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to comment. [[On the signal of Katalin Cöbör:]] No. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] Secretary of State has indicated no. I will ask the designated Judicial Committee if it intends to put forward a rapporteur. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any need for that. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2014-11-10-243	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have an interesting bill before us, and we have discussed it here in the general debate. The interesting thing about this is that it seems that the principles that it wants to implement are beautiful principles, because if we read through it, we see that the bill wants to solve housing, that it wants to create the housing of the workers in relation to job creation, so we are talking about the fact that it also promotes childbearing, and the other, and the other reasons, clearly state that the justified reason for the proposal is that it is a condition for the survival and residence of the settlements and residents, that the legislator helps the job placement by all possible means. Well, a little bit, how can I say...? That's not exactly what the bill is about. But what's the problem? Because it is not the problem of job creation, it is not the solution to housing, it is the fact that this bill is practically part of a series of amendments to the law on foreign exchange creditors. If we look at the legislative activity of the past four and a half years in this regard, we can see that Parliament has unfortunately helped foreign exchange lenders with very small and very small steps, but there has not been a truly comprehensive solution to this day, and, as we have seen, on the basis of the latest proposals, foreign exchange loans will now and in the future be forgone at the current exchange rate. So this next solution won't really be a good solution. But we've seen that we've always improved the fate of foreign exchange credentials a little bit. Unfortunately, Jobbik's proposals have not been taken into account, which would have resolved this within a year or within a very short period of time for four years. There's always been little push-ups here. We feel that this bill, on the other hand, is a step backwards in respect of foreign exchange legitimists, because what we have jointly accepted and supported here in Parliament was a moratorium on eviction of people trapped in foreign currency loans. Everyone agreed on this, and this bill is a very big gap, which will mean that if this bill is adopted, then the eviction moratorium currently in force will not apply to certain cases. Another problem that we have to deal with is the issue of ownership and ownership, because it will distinguish a person from a person by who the person who is trapped in a foreign currency loan will belong to, who will be the owner of the enforcement right, who will be the enforcement lawyer. Is the implementation option 100% owned by the state? Or is it owned by the municipality? Because in that case, the person in the future? if this bill is adopted? He can be evicted, so he's not subject to the eviction moratorium. And that's where the question that raises constitutional problems comes in? In our view, is it contrary to the Fundamental Law, by the way? Is it that you will distinguish ownership from ownership? Are we just talking about ownership here? In a way that we managed to close in Hungary 25-26 years ago, when it was indeed one of the fundamental issues of the transition to the rule of law, whether there is a distinction between property rights, whether public property means more than private property. It was just one of the fundamental elements of the rule of law that we do not distinguish between property rights, ownership is property, whether it is Community property, private property, public property, municipal property or any other property. It also makes a difference here from the point of view of ownership. It gives rise to a need for a state or a municipality, or a candidate who will have access to its property, while others will be suspended under the moratorium legislation, and those who live in that apartment and cannot be blamed for who bought them the possibility of execution, but will be distinguished in some way. [[19.30]] Therefore, on this basis, we believe that this constitutional problem is raised. And in this case, if we distinguish ownership according to the fact that it is public, municipal or private property, we will go back to a pre-1989 rule of law, socialist legislation, when we will make such a distinction. And technically, we're putting the possibility aside legally by law. Another problem is what we have said many times in the last four years, and now in four and a half years is whether there is an opportunity for individual legislation. So we make general legislation, we make a law for a case-by-case, local problem that will solve it, not elsewhere. We have seen over the past four years that the two-thirds majority has always been able to carry them through. Another issue is that it can be said here, obviously, and my fellow Member, Mr Csöbör, will certainly say how important it is to create jobs there, to solve environmental problems. This Jobbik Movement for Hungary fully agrees, and we say that yes, we must solve that problem. In this case, we know very well that Miskolc is a miskolc problem, we just think that this is not how it should be resolved, but that it should be done by means of a rule of law, in such a way that fundamental rights, constitutional rights, property rights are not discriminated against and that the current rule of law principles should be respected in this case as well. Thus, from the fact that the municipality purchased 173 apartments in Miskolc or from the municipality, not the apartment, but in this case the right to implement the foreign exchange loaners, does not mean that the municipality should be authorised to suspend enforcement rights in all other cases, and the moratorium will not be in place in the case of 173 apartments of the municipality, and they may be evicted. Obviously, we can't look at who they are. We can't consider who they are. They are Hungarian citizens, and we need to decoupling them, and we need to look at this at the level of the principles of law. On this basis, however beautiful the principles that are written here, however beautiful it is that we want to implement it, the real reason is the abolition of the moratorium, the elimination of the moratorium in some cases, the abolition of the moratorium on eviction, the continuation of implementation. So what is in the explanatory statement is practically no longer a valid reason. On this basis, and also taking into account the fact that the achievement of the goal in itself is important, and here every faction can think about whether or not I am going to go through the principle of law on such a matter, and whether I will support that bill, because the goal is noble, then it is possible to think about it. However, it can also be seen that there is also the possibility that, if such opportunities are provided, such legislation could unfortunately be abused. And we see that if it can be abused, in some cases this abuse will be created. I am not saying that there would be abuse in Miskolc, but if this option is available, we can always distinguish between certain groups, against whom the municipality buys the enforcement law. And, well, we're gonna drop you off, and you guys aren't gonna get your apartment fixed, because we don't like you guys, because, I'm sorry to say that with old classic jokes, you guys have hats on your heads, so we're gonna evict you guys, not the rest of you. So it also gives us the opportunity to do so, so we think that this legislation is in conflict with the most fundamental requirements of the rule of law, and unfortunately we cannot support it in this form. This means that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will abstain on this issue, because the goals themselves are beautiful, nobles, it would be good to support it, it would be good to achieve the necessary goal, but unfortunately not so. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-244	Mr László Varga asked for a two-minute comment, but I would like to say that there is no two-minute comment in the debate. But I can give you the floor for nine minutes, if that's all right with you, as a standard word requester. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-245	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear rapporteur, And I would suggest that I will not use your patience so far, since we have had a general debate on this proposal. The speaker before me mentioned, then there were many arguments, counter-arguments, many things, and it was also revealed, obviously partly from what I said, that this is a solution to a very specific miskolc problem, perhaps a solution, obviously in relation to the partial lifting of the moratorium. However, I have to ask you, since it was raised in the general debate that the constitutional problems which had been raised in the general debate had been resolved. I see the amendment that has been tabled here, and then the single proposal, and there have been virtually linguistic clarification in the motion. So it is clear that the comprehensive reflection by either the national or the government on how this proposal could somehow be incorporated into the constitutional system has not, in my opinion, been made. So I can't inspire the debate in any other way than knowing my opinion on the matter. I will support any proposal that will be tabled here in Parliament for the sake of the Miskolcs, whoever does this. That's what we do. That's why we got trust from people. That's why I personally got the confidence in one of the constituencies in Miskolc. However, I must ask Mr Répássy here with responsibility, as he is here on behalf of the government, whether there is an impact assessment of how many properties, how many citizens can be affected in this country. Can this proposal affect a large number of Hungarian citizens in other cities? This is important because as an individual Member in this respect, I have to consider whether my vote which may help the Miskolcs in this case may not cause harm to others because of bad faith in the application of legislation that is unfair to them. I think that there are no more questions in this matter, because we have discussed the general debate, everyone has said their position, and I would like to expect an answer from the Secretary of State or the rapporteur. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-10-246	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. Yes, Congressman Nándor Gúr has indicated. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-247	Thank you, Mr. President. Actually, I'd like to make three or four sentences. One, not opened, as it was discussed within the framework of the general debate, seems to be a supplementary act that is now taking place within the walls of Parliament. Well, at some point, because of the involvement with Fidesz, there have been certain events that need to be corrected. This additional act, you might say, is born for the sake of Miskolc, the people who live in Miskolc. But the question mark, the doubt, is where László Varga said that if we look beyond our narrower Patriots in Miskolc, what the impact of this all looks like on other settlements in the country. Does he even look out in any way? Does it have any effect? Technically, this question in itself raises doubts about whether such a proposal should be supported in many Members, as I have had in the last week. I think there is a positive element in this story, but in fact, this positive element is only after causing the big mistake that has been made, basically, as I said, endowed with fidesz interests, it is about putting it out to a certain extent. And I don't think that's right. We need to be clear and clear about this. That's one thing. The other thing I do not want to ignore, and I would also like to ask Mr Secretary of State, is that, let us say, the kind of guarantee elements that are formulated in the draft law, i.e. that they will be renovated or rented within two years after the purchase of these properties, essentially with the aim of providing jobs related to new jobs, where are the guarantee elements in these respects. What happens if the local government does not comply with these criteria, which, by the way, are formulated here within the framework of the law, within the framework of a draft law. What are the consequences? So, in this regard, there is a series of uncertainty in the system, in the draft law, there are no guarantees, no tangibles. I would like to see, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what his relationship is and what he has to say about this, so to speak, his explanation, his guarantee. The third point I raise is only because, in the context of the general debate, the issue of foreign exchange loans has been raised in relation to this whole matter, in terms of difficult fates. [[19.40]] I would just like to say that, not lost, that they know that when they talked for four years about saving foreign exchange creditors, it was about how and how they will forint, then the consequence of what we see is that the Swiss franc will be counted at HUF 308 and HUF 256 against the former HUF 260 and the Swiss franc at HUF 180. So that's about what you're gonna do: you're gonna start a fire, you're gonna start a fire, and then you're gonna use a needle to try to put them out through water syringes, through water injection syringes. That's what's wrong, that's what's the problem. Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-11-10-248	Thank you. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. Then I will ask the author if he wishes to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] No, it's okay. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. The Commission's reports on the 2012 Criminal Code Act C, to be submitted for the necessary amendment of the 2012 Criminal Code in order to improve the protection of children and vulnerable persons, and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. Independent motion by Members Gabriella Selmeczi, Erik Bánki and Imre Vas T/1328. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Reports by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee and the Welfare Committee as a committee related to the debate on the detailed discussion T/1328/9. And they got it at number 11. T/1328/13. The summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate is T/1328/14. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-11-10-249	Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that T/1328 was discussed at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 6 November. The proposed amendment to Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, which was submitted by the Committee with 30 votes in favour and 1 abstention, was required to protect children and vulnerable people more effectively. As the vote rate shows, the summarised amendment was supported by our opposition colleagues. This gives rise to the hope that perhaps the yes button will be chosen in the final vote as well. The summarised amendment includes, on the one hand, a clarification proposal from the Judicial Committee and, on the other hand, a substantive change of the Legislative Committee. The law aims to better protect minors from crimes against gender morality. The amendment of the content is necessary because the provision in point (d) of the submitted bill renders the crime indeterminate for all victims, which is not in line with the purpose of the law. This would lead to a violation of the principle of criminal law of proportionality, as in this case a number of other more serious offences should be excluded. Furthermore, considering the proposed legal situation, it can be concluded that the acts set out in point (c) include criminal behaviour against minors, specifically formulated in accordance with point (d). With regard to point (e) of the proposal submitted, it can be noted that the exploitation of child prostitution and child pornography are among the lowest crimes committed against children. These acts must be combated with the utmost rigour of criminal law. In the bill, the Btk. 26. Paragraph 3 (c) of Article 3 covers acts more than 5 years of criminality from this circle, i.e. it meets the requirement of proportionality. At present, however, there is no privileged form in the legal situation of child pornography when the perpetrator and the victim are married. Therefore, the introduction of a special statute of limitation in the planned manner could have provided a basis for serious abuse in cases of less criminalisation. In view of what has been said, please support the bill. Thank you.
u2014-11-10-250	Dear Parliament, I will ask the authors whether they wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] They don't want to speak. Then I'll ask if anyone would like to comment on behalf of the government. [[No signal.]] [[No one's reporting.]] They don't want to speak. Then I'll ask if anyone would like to comment on behalf of the government. (No indication.) No sign of him. I'm asking if anyone on the Justice Committee wants to comment. (No one's reporting.) There's no candidate. Then I'll give the floor to Bene Ildikó, rapporteur of the People's Welfare Committee for the debate.
u2014-11-10-251	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A detailed discussion of the bill took place before the Committee on Welfare as an associated committee, as provided for. In view of the above, it was highlighted in the detailed debate that the bill was drawn up in the light of the principles set out in the Fundamental Law for the increased protection of children. In addition to its integration into the Hungarian legal system, the provision under discussion complies with obligations arising both from international and EU law and with the professional requirements of legislation as it is parallel to the German system and is also in line with the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the UN General Assembly. I think it is important to mention that our opposition fellow Members expressed their support during the debate, and that Parliament's general debate was extremely constructive in line with its gravity and seriousness. I would like to note that, in the vote in the Committee on Welfare, we unanimously voted in favour of both the conclusion of the detailed debate and the adoption of the report on the detailed debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-252	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Member Gergely Bárándy in advance.
u2014-11-10-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat and not just because of the house rules, but also not the arguments that we have made in the general debate on the bill. I would like to point out one thing: did we all agree and agree on it now, and I think that our voting behaviour will also show this in Parliament? I hope by unanimous vote? The protection of children and the protection of our children must always be one of the most important topics within the walls of this House. We also pointed out that amendments to the Code of Penalty may be necessary to this end, but we will continue to look forward to the proposals made by Fidesz and the Government in this respect to bring forward the related and perhaps more effective legislative proposals; we will also work on this. As far as the amendment is concerned? Is this the subject of this debate? I can say that we have seen an exemplary process in this regard, because we have been able to correct, on the basis of a common will, the professional errors and shortcomings in which this proposal has suffered. The Legislative Committee has tabled a Commission amendment, which could be supported by the vast majority of committee members after the preparation, so our group supports this amendment and can therefore support it from a professional point of view as a result of the adoption of the amending proposal? Not just about the contents? the bill before us. So, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a pity to extend this speech to longer. We therefore support the summarised amendment and support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-254	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt. [[19.50]]
u2014-11-10-255	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, I won't be longer than Gergely Bárándy before me. We too can support the proposal and I would also not like to repeat what we have said in the general debate. However, let me say that, while we are talking about statute of limitations and statute of limitations, we have tabled an amendment. I know you're not directly on this subject. But once we opened this law, we had a house-to-house opportunity. This concerned the non-exaggeration of bribery, criminal offences, corruption offences. We would very much like to see, sooner or later, that these offences are either subject to longer limitation periods in Hungarian legislation, or, if appropriate, they would also not lapse. We can see that this is a cross-border problem, and in recent times I could even mention the ban scandal, we are faced with problems in which these crimes are also very upsetting to people when they hear, where appropriate, that let's say a politician or even an ex-Prime Minister is caught, and he can say that the crime is overdue, so he can't be held accountable, and then he can continue his activities in Parliament in the same way. This annoys people as much as that these crimes, such as corruption crimes, are in many cases not investigated, or when the justice system is there to start, the statute of limitations has already taken place. However, we can, of course, support that the various crimes against children do not lapse. This also reflects Jobbik's aspirations. This is a proposal that we can support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. ? A rare applause from the pro-government benches]]
u2014-11-10-256	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to comment. Congressman Erik Bánki has indicated. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-257	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all my fellow Members who, during the committee's debate, participated in the preparation of the amendment, or in the general debate of Parliament, or in its closing debate. I think that this cooperation, cooperation, has indeed been exemplary, that we have been able to give a unanimous opinion on such an otherwise important social issue. All of my fellow Members sitting among the benches, who spoke on this subject regardless of party affiliation, have all taken into account the purpose that led us to prepare the bill. Thank you very much to everyone involved in this clarification, which was ultimately concentrated in the amendment of the Legislative Committee, which makes this proposal even better and more perfect. Thank you all again for your work, your cooperation. I hope that the bill will receive the same unanimous or large voting rate in the parliamentary vote. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-10-258	Ladies and gentlemen, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing today's work with general debates. It follows that the general debate on the bill amending the laws concerning certain municipalities will follow until the closure. Antal Rogán, István Németh Szilárd, Ferenc Papcsák, Mónika Dunai, István Simicskó, János Fónagy, László Kucsák, Tamás László, independent proposal T/1919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that, in accordance with the adopted urgent motion, it is possible to submit amendments until the general debate is concluded. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal has been conducted by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Tamás László, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2014-11-10-259	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I must specifically address Mr. Mayor, István Tarlós and the newly formed metropolitan body of representatives [[Dr. István Józsa: Shame!]] all members, the 23 district mayors and candidates for mayor who have become members of the capital city representative board on a compensatory list. This special welcome is important because these amendments are essentially about the long-term and creative cooperation of the Metropolitan Assembly. There are no party interests, no individual district interests, all participants must serve the existing and to be created values of our beloved capital, Budapest. Indeed, it can be said that the situation is historic when the two-level self-government of the capital meets directly in the persons on the body of representatives and directly in synergy. The district mayors and the candidates from the compensation list bring the peculiarities, special values and well-defined problems of the district together, and show the peculiarities of the capital city that this beautiful city is actually made up of hundreds of smaller and larger units, historically, topography and sociology. For the first time, this new type of body of representatives will be able to truly create the true, organic and interrelationship-based unity of this metropolitan city. Of course, the capital will appear in this with its own urban view, its networks, and its companies serving the whole city. Because what's been going on so far, why couldn't there be a higher unity in the capital? Why did we feel that this was a somewhat fragmented settlement that could not exploit the incredibly favorable features? In principle, due to the fact that the former General Assembly was not in fact composed of elected members, the members in that place did not have direct responsibility for the members. Thus, they had no task of strengthening local identity, lost in the maze of personal interests. Because what does it take to form unity, fellow Members? Developing a strong and continuously developed local identity, identity-consciousness, because without it, the settlement does not share its values and wants to solve its problems alone. In the case of a marked district identity consciousness, however, the locality, the representatives of the historically formed district voluntarily and fully aware of the place, the people living there, the economic and social activities that are taking place there will share their values and their problems. In this new body of representatives in the capital, close cooperation does not appear as a coercion, but as a fundamental Community need. This is supported by this amendment, which takes into account the specifics of the administration of the capital, taking into account the present body of representatives, which is certainly more effective than before. What should the rules and laws governing the coexistence of a community be like? It is necessary to establish rules with few but definite contours. The rules, the amendments, aim to establish balance, cooperation and consensus as the basic values, to ensure a harmonious and superior Community existence as a driving force. This amendment of the law will certainly become a kind of veto right. There's something else going on here. The renewed composition of the Metropolitan Assembly ensures that both levels of capital self-government, the districts and the capital as a whole are adequately represented in the decision-making process of Budapest. For mayors, the municipal law is 68. The right of veto provided for in paragraph (1) of Article 1 where the body of representatives finds its decision to be offensive to the interests of the local government, i.e. the initiative to renegotiate decisions in the case of the capital has a slightly different function, since its purpose is to ensure that the decisions of the Budapest General Assembly are adopted with the greatest agreement of the members of the general meeting representing the district and the capital level. To ensure that the Mayor can request a repeated trial of the decision taken in this case not only once but at any number of times compared to the other mayors, it is precisely this principle, i.e. that the agreement between the district and the capital level is necessary for the adoption of a decision. Retrials initiated by the Mayor shall be subject to the same rules as retrials which may be initiated by other mayors. [[20.00]] The right of veto provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, when it finds the decision of the body of representatives offensive to the interests of the municipality, i.e. the initiative to renegotiate decisions in the case of the capital, has a slightly different function, since its purpose is to ensure that the decisions of the Metropolitan Assembly are adopted with the greatest agreement of the members of the general meeting representing the district and the capital level. To ensure that the Mayor can request a repeated trial of the decision taken in this case not only once but at any number of times compared to the other mayors, it is precisely this principle, i.e. that the agreement between the district and the capital level is necessary for the adoption of a decision. Retrials initiated by the Mayor shall be subject to the same rules as retrials which may be initiated by other mayors.(20.00) However, in order to ensure that there is no uncertainty as to when a decision becomes enforceable, it is necessary to require that, in the event of an adopted decision, if the time limit for the reopening of the hearing has passed, these three days from the date of the meeting at which the decision was adopted by the Metropolitan Assembly, the decision can be enforced. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The law before us on the amendment of laws concerning certain municipal laws certainly and clearly takes into account the specificities of the two-tier administration of the capital city, serves cooperation and consensus, so it is absolutely necessary to support it. In Budapest's development, it enters a new and promising phase with the new body of representatives of the capital after the 2014 municipal elections. I wish Mr. Mayor to continue his work more fruitfully, to strengthen the values of the city as a whole, to represent the mayors and those on the compensation list with a strong representation of their own values, and to be able to see both the part and the whole, i.e. wisdom, understanding, listening to each other, working together. I wish you good work, the service of the common good through fire and water. This is what we can serve by adopting this law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-260	I am asking whether the Secretary of State would like to speak on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yes, it's indicated by the Secretary of State. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2014-11-10-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the proposal. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-262	Thank you. We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I therefore give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-10-263	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me, my fellow Members, to add only a few points to the one before me and also to stress the need to adopt the bill that has been tabled. As is known, the municipal system has undergone a significant transformation in the past. The provisions of the new municipal law in force today have been put into effect in several steps. The rules of the Act adopted were first adopted on 1 January 2012 and then the second part on 1 January 2013 and finally on the day following the 2014 municipal elections in full. Following the entry into force of the law as a whole, a number of feedback was received, as well as experience has shown that some of the detailed rules of the municipal law have become necessary for the enforcement of the law. A significant part of the bill before us sets new rules for the Metropolitan Assembly and the status of the Mayor. This is due to the fact that the 2014 XXIII programme Law significantly changed the rules on the composition and functioning of the municipal body of the capital city. One of the most important provisions of the proposal submitted at the end of May was the transformation of the composition of the Metropolitan Assembly. With the adoption of the proposal, two levels of the Metropolitan Municipality appeared, on the one hand, district mayors representing the district level [[Interjection in the lines of the MSZP: The very same thing before...]] on the other hand, the level of the mayor representing the capital level and the representatives of the capital city compensation list. [[Interviews in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] The interests of the two levels are regulated and the most important decisions concerning the capital can be taken with their agreement. However, I stress that, with the integration of district mayors into the Metropolitan Assembly, a democratically elected body has been established in which the interests of the capital as a whole and the interests of each district can conflict in a regulated manner. At the same time, it provides an appropriate location for cheaper, more efficient and simpler capital governance. [[Dr. István Józsa: You better put it in writing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, We therefore feel it is our task to facilitate agreement between the two levels. Therefore, in order to ensure that both levels of capital self-government can be properly reflected in the decision-making process in the capital and that it can truly serve the interests of the capital's total population in an effective way [[Demercation and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In the case of Budapest, special rules should apply, on the one hand, to decision-making and, on the other hand, to certain issues relating to the proposal of the Metropolitan Assembly and the Mayor. Accordingly, the proposal allows, among other things, for the City Assembly to decide on personal and institutional matters only on the proposal of the Mayor, and for the Deputy Mayor appointed by it to participate in the work of the Metropolitan Defence Committee instead of the Mayor. In addition, if the proposal is adopted, special rules will apply to the right of veto that may be exercised by the Mayor. The veto right granted to mayors, i.e. the initiative to renegotiate decisions, will have a slightly different function for the capital, since its aim is to ensure that the decisions of the Metropolitan Assembly are always adopted with the greatest agreement of the members of the general meeting representing the district and the capital level. To ensure that the Mayor may not only ask once, but also at any number of times, to repeat and negotiate the decision in the case, this principle is applied to the fullest extent possible. [[Dr. István Józsa: Repetition is the mother of knowledge! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've heard the same thing before! ? Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In addition to the above, the proposal also contains a clarification rule for the dissolution of the Metropolitan Assembly. The proposal sets out the majority in which the Metropolitan Assembly may disband itself and the scope for a new election in the event of the dissolution of the Metropolitan Assembly. The bill corrects and, in some cases, clarifies the conflict of interest provisions for representatives of local governments. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? A loud applause in the lines of MSZP, Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-11-10-264	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-10-265	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear tableds, What has been said before me has almost convinced me, and I have been talking to my fellow Members here about withdrawing our intention to speak, because clearly there have been such decisive arguments from our fellow Member Imre Vas that we cannot... [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: He didn't listen! You didn't even pay attention.]] Yes, yes, I have been paying attention and taking notes, my dear fellow Member. [[István Apáti: We have the skills to look out for more places!]] Nevertheless, I am very sorry that it wasn't Antal Rogán? And don't take this personally, my fellow Member Vas Imre, to address this to him? Sitting here, he is the one who, as rapporteur, explains to us why this bill is necessary, but entrusts it to other fellow Members. And I think that this is the Folk Commissioner's Lenin boy's momentum, which is in this bill right here before us? And I think it's a coincidence that this bill was given the 1919 number? "It reflects the spirit of Antal Rogán, his arguments in this House would be necessary to explain to us why it is really necessary to present this bill. As opposed to those who spoke before me, given that this bill amends not only Mötv. but also other laws? So, surprisingly, for example, the law on local taxes, which, by the way, is being negotiated in the tax package, will soon be decided? Therefore, I am forced to go into the general debate in more detail on various paragraphs. [[20.10]] Firstly, I would like to start there, which concerns tax laws, namely that Antal Rogán intends to grant tax relief to companies carrying out basic research, applied research or experimental development in his activities. That's a nice thought. In fact, we could think about how this could be done, but first we have to ask ourselves why this is actually necessary. This is because, in determining the local business tax, municipalities have the opportunity to grant tax exemptions for certain undertakings, such as companies where the tax base does not exceed HUF 2,5 million. This would be a new opportunity for applied research and experimental development. But here, however, there is no definition of the maximum tax base, but it can be any enterprise. What kind of enterprise does this kind of experimental research in Hungary? Let us consider, my fellow Members, what kind of companies we are actually talking about. Well, I've got to think about Kósa's 20 percent about our Lajos Teva. If it's something like that, then he's [[Dr. András Schiffer: No! No! ? Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Yes, it does. It also does experimental development. For example, pharmaceutical companies in Hungary, but all over the world, we know that unfortunately some of their experimental developments are not for the benefit of patients, they are not for the benefit of citizens, but, unfortunately, in order to create certain kinds of addictions where appropriate. That's what we're saying, of course, I don't mean Teva, but there's usually a conspiracy theory like that. Therefore, I am not sure that all companies in their entirety deserve this particular tax reduction and tax possibility, and I therefore believe that, in this regard, as it stands before us in the proposal, the motion is in no way acceptable and would therefore require a change. We believe that only small and medium-sized enterprises, such as companies carrying out basic research and experimental research in Hungary, can receive this tax reduction as an opportunity, because we believe that, by the way, as set out in the current budget bill before us, how will individual municipalities receive support, and how will the system of inclusion change next year? Is it also, we know, based on the local business tax and the resulting tax power? And here, indeed, the government thought that, above a tax power, it would be more a departure from individual municipalities rather than a subsidy, so that the possibility of tax power in larger municipalities could be influenced in this way, that if we give tax incentives, the system of inclusion would look different immediately. But why are we helping, say, Teva now by doing tricks here in the budget support system? I think it's a bad idea. But I'll keep going, the Mötv. many interesting thoughts have been raised here. Here's 4 for example. §, which was a missing link so far in Mötv., namely that there must also be the seat of the county assembly in the territory of the county seat settlement. Now, this is also a very interesting idea, but I think that before we decide an internal debate of Fidesz, so in Hungarian, the debate between the Balassagyarmat municipality and the Nógrád county assembly would be settled here by Parliament, I think that first of all, the internal debates of the party should be held at home or at a faction meeting, this is one of them. The other thing that should basically be resolved in Hungary is the anomaly that counties are not part of the territory of the county-righted city; this is a very strange thing. In this regard, Hungary is probably a world union that virtually everywhere in the counties there are holes, these are areas of county-righted cities, not part of the county. But if it's not part of the county, then from this logic, why shouldn't the county assembly have its seat elsewhere than where, say, there might be a city with county rights? Why couldn't Balassagyarmat, the former county of Nógrád, be the seat of the general assembly of Nógrád county? I think if you feel that the current Mötv is the current Mötv. it is not comprehensive in all respects, then perhaps the amendments should start here and should be put in order in this regard. I'm moving on with the changes. The rules on conflicts of interest, these are one of the most exciting amendments and the least detailed amendments by the authors, which have been presented to us in the bill. What's this about? There's a game going on, and you're making the gate moveable, where the ball comes from, you can push the gate in front of it. That's not appropriate. I think that we are not changing the rules of the game during the match, and that is, I think, one of the basics of European decency rules. It is the case that on 12 October the elections were held in Hungary, the municipal elections, it is 30 days after the election that the Member settles his conflict of interest, and if these 30 days are not sufficient to eliminate this conflict of interest, he may also initiate this with a written submission at the conflict of interest and mandate committee that he has taken this step and therefore the conflict of interest can be regarded as being somewhat eliminated. So at the last minute, now, when you're faced with how many Fidesz pro-government municipal representatives, or mayor, have conflicts of interest, problems, they're already changing the laws to their image and likeness, so that they can fit into the system, and they don't have to give up other positions. I think that this is extremely restrictive, so that I do not say that it is a stomach-stricken attitude, and I think that this must be reviewed in any case, and indeed, this whole bill, as it is, should be withdrawn. Because the other is that other citizens who might have taken up municipal elections, but they knew that if they were elected, they would be incompatible with their position as local governments, and they probably wouldn't have started because they said that they wouldn't want to choose between the two things, but you obviously didn't tell them that it was possible to start, dear Fidesz or KDNP, because then, after the election, we will change the conflict of interest rules to your image and likeness. I think it's a kind of arrogance, which is the kind of Lenin boyic momentum that Antal Rogán is characterized by. Is that really weird? On three points, do you amend the rules of conflict of interest? I read, on the one hand, that a Member cannot be a civil servant and employee of the mayor's office, or of the common municipal office of a notary, sub-notary or settlement, and that you will insert a word, a word, or another settlement, here. So he could be a civil servant or employee of his own settlement? Is that what this is supposed to mean? In fact, you, since you think of these paragraphs in the case of mayors with a social mandate of over 1500, can be the extremely absurd situation that, let's say, someone in a mayor's office is the head of the finance department, elected mayor, and now mayor and head of the financial department at the same time; I would add that there is such a settlement in Hungary today. So, let's just say, how's the account book gonna look? The Voucher Mayor Katika, the Controller Katika. Do you understand? This is insane! Amazing! I can't imagine. Have you really considered the proposal that came before us? [[Intercoms.]] [[20.20]] It's just a blur on the cake that they're going to allow us to break the rules of conflict of interest even in the management of companies. I think this is completely unacceptable. And one more thing I would like to discuss in my short time is the question of personal involvement. I'm going to tell you a specific story just to make it clear. We are in a small town, the mayor asks the person to be deputy mayor, but B is also a member of the council, the brother of this person A. A total of four are together with the mayor, and according to his order, the candidate for deputy mayor is personally involved, his brother is here on the body of representatives, so the voting order will therefore be influenced in some way. They shall vote on whether or not to exclude the Member concerned. Of course, and obviously, the brothers and sisters will take part in the vote, they will vote in favour of not excluding themselves from voting, and then, of course and obviously, this candidate will be able to fill the position of deputy mayor. I don't know if this short story made sense. You want to address these problems by trying to change in some way the voting order in personal involvement. I think this is not a cure for the real problem, but will only make it worse. Because what we should really do is that when they vote on whether or not the Member concerned is excluded from the vote, those involved should not participate in that vote. Right now, they're still allowed to participate, so that's the problem. They should be excluded from that vote, then it would actually be possible to see the mirror of how personal involvement would otherwise affect the work of the body of representatives. So in summary and in conclusion, because my time is up, I think this is the bill that lies in front of us? And the part about the City Council will be presented to you by my fellow Member, Gábor Staudt? This whole bill is unacceptable, of course, and obviously Jobbik can't support it. And we ask that Antal Rogán come in here and explain to us how to mock the Hungarian municipal system in this way. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. ? István Apáti: You're a little frozen!]]
u2014-11-10-266	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-10-267	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] As an introduction, would I like to say a few words about it? Even though we're used to being unsportsmanous? That we are at the beginning of a term, one month after the election, bringing and putting into effect such a rule, is simply not appropriate in a civilised country. What am I talking about? The fact that once there were rules of notice for a mayor's election, a mayor's election, people in the given term chose, for example, a mayor in Budapest or mayor in cities, that they were aware of the powers and rights associated with the position. It is about the fact that the citizens of Budapest voted in confidence in a specific competence for István Tarlós. The voters of Budapest decided on 12 October whether, under the law in force on 12 October, the persons they wanted to vote for or who were on the candidate list are fit to hold the post or not. In practice, it is also possible to change the rules of play regarding the status of the mayors or the mayor in full according to what the machine throws you on the night of the election. So it is possible that when, say, recommendations could be collected, and the Hungarian voters exercised their active suffrage, they applied for certain posts, so that if they knew in advance that they would have a completely different power a month after the election, they would already have a different power? Surely I'm not referring to István Tarlos? would not have applied for the post; not to mention that the voter, who contributed to the urn on 12 October, did not give the mandate to exercise such powers. Is that what you're doing here? Not for the first time and obviously not for the last time? Not only is it unfair, but it also seriously raises the question of whether this rule will stand the test of the Constitutional Court investigating the Fundamental Law. And, of course, it is worth noting what Mrs Loránt Hegedűs has just outlined here why it is in other business organisations, such as companies, when voting on conflicts of interest or other similar legal facts, that the persons concerned are ignored in voting. Why should municipal representative bodies act differently as business organisations? I think that, in order to have legal certainty in a country, rules of this kind, which typically apply to farming organisations, should be applied in a uniform manner. Dear Parliament, In fact, it is somewhat different from the original direction of the amendment, which is set out in Article 1. I would like to begin my comment with this, and I can join the solo before me: while the government is constantly singing in words about how great it is to support the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, I can again recall the Prime Minister's illustrious words to them that they should not listen to what I am saying, but to what I am doing. I think there's one. This is also the case with regard to Art. When you promise companies tax relief by reference to basic research under the R &amp; D and Innovation Act? As Congresswoman Violin has just said? The fact that they differ according to capital power between different businesses goes further on the path that this country began to pursue a quarter of a century ago, because it is obvious that in a country where the economy has been tragically split up and giving giants the same discount as small businesses that are now perhaps somehow on the market, this discount will deepen the gap. If these tax incentives are granted without discrimination to multi-companies, various large companies and the domestic SME sector, this means that Fidesz will continue the policy pursued by its predecessors, the various right-wing, false-left governments, and will further increase the gap between multinational capital, court suppliers and the domestic SME sector. As to the merits of the proposal? And this is obviously where the primary legal objective is to increase the mayor's authority? Once again, I can only quote the classics, although I'm not sure I'm capable of returning such surreal sentences. Two weeks ago, the Prime Minister said something to the immediate question of President Novak here that he did not wish to correct one mistake with one more error. I can tell you this now: once it was a mistake, as you changed the rules of the game shortly before the match began, and ruined the City Council; now, with another mistake, namely, increasing the powers of the mayor, you intend to correct what was ruined in June this year. Well, that's not gonna work. In June of this year, you made a move that would have been exactly the opposite of what those who gave you two thirds of the money would have expected of you, if something had to be done to you in the hands of a two-thirds majority in the last four years, it would have been that distorted, two-tier capital self-government in this form, as it was established under Mátyás Rákosi, would have been eliminated; you have not done so. The capital city is inoperative; it has been inoperative since 1990, indeed because of bad compromises. The inner districts of the capital are free prey to various colorful real estate speculators, who are sometimes called the majority of representatives and mayors; this capital is out of control. [[20.30]] You have increased the uncontrollability by practically releasing the district mayors to the Metropolitan Assembly, and now you intend to put this right by extending the powers of the mayor by a few weeks after the election. You're not gonna make it. Quite simply, the electoral system established in June itself should be withdrawn, changed, and fundamentally a new municipal system in the capital should be required; it would be necessary to have a metropolitan self-government capable of developing this city. This metropolitan municipal system is suitable for many things, obviously for theft, but certainly not for the development of Budapest. The fact that 23 small kings will be organized by a reinforced provost master may be successful in the sense that István Tarlós will be able to machine more easily at the meetings of the Metropolitan Assembly, but that this system will still not be suitable for the development of Budapest, that is quite certain. In this bill, of course, there are arguments and considerations that the LMP could support in a normal timetable; for example, we can see for ourselves that it makes sense that the leeway of directly elected and thus strongly legitimised mayors should be broadened by legislation and broadened by their toolbox. We also formulated this in our concept of local government, which was drawn up prior to the adoption of the law on the municipalities of Hungary. At the same time, LMP also considers the need to establish strong and uniform leadership in the capital to be acceptable in relation to the capital and districts; we ourselves have repeatedly spoken against the maladministration of the local small king's system, which is a hotbed of corruption, but in this matter it would be better to change the division of powers between the districts and the capital. Therefore, in the reasoning of the proposal before the National Assembly, we can find ideas that are in line with our previous argument, but this proposal again serves only to cement the momentary power interests of Fidesz. In this case, I could also say that the horse's foot hangs out, but not the horse's foot, but a whole horse's foot hangs out when the mayor's toolkit is intended to be expanded only in the case of the mayor, I suppose, based on an earlier Orbán-Tarlós pact. However, the proposal goes far beyond a healthy level when it defines the institution of the mayor's veto in an unlimited manner and does not provide any means of dispute resolution that would prevent the operation of the general meeting from being impossible. Dear Parliament, It's very interesting that they're suddenly conjuring up a four-fifth rule that hasn't been customary for you for the past four years. What was a few four fifths rule, for example, in the Hungarian Constitution, was weeded out in the summer of 2010. What is the legal reason that, as a curiosity in the system of national cynicism, the dissolution will now suddenly be tied to four fifths? What is the reasonable explanation for this? And again, it's just that, according to the wishes of their momentary power interests and the various Fidesz Dombokiks, they move the municipal system when the definition of the seat of county assemblies is included as a new element in the law. It's a shame, it's a disgrace what you've done in Nógrád County, all the Fidesz MEPs in Nógrád should be ashamed of you! The fact that, when you have an unwelcome result, you are shamelessly trying to drill these results, from Ozd to Salgótarján to Zugló, and if you do not have the courts, you will and will punish the city! I think that what happened in yesterday's interim election, for example, is an alert to Fidesz that there is a limit to arrogance. You can grin here proudly, you can ignore the parliamentary procedure, but precisely the interim election yesterday proves that people will eventually be satisfied with this immeasurable arrogance, which is also realized in legislative abuses. With regard to conflict of interest rules, I can also say that it is unfair to change conflict of interest rules a few weeks after the municipal election. Or it can be changed by entering into force in 2019. Well, that would be fair, there's something to argue about. I can repeat once again what you said here, Madam President: if these conflict of interest rules had been in place, let us say, as early as August 1st, when the campaign starts or the recommendation collection period begins, there may have been quite different people in the municipal campaign, and there may have been quite different results, especially in smaller settlements. Again, what they do with conflict of interest rules means that someone is lying very well somewhere for the Fidesz, and their status must be restored, and that someone should be able to overpower a settlement. But then it would be fair to come out here and tell us exactly what settlements, which should clear the way in front of fidesz cadres. Dear Parliament, Yes, we can see precisely that the Metropolitan Government is completely out of order. It is completely inoperative because the parties ruling in the last quarter of a century have been in constant sin since the summer of 1990 and have rendered the Municipality of Budapest inoperable, starting with the debate of the local government law of 90, where the opposition of that time, SZDSZ and Fidesz? calculated that the MDF might win the autumn municipal elections? He refused to change the Stalinist capital structure, as the Antals otherwise suggested. This two-tier metropolitan government system was frozen, which was basically a transfer of the Council system to the new timeline, and they were very well integrated into the surety; the ruling elites, who had been in control of the metropolitan districts since 1990, were not interested in putting the capital in place and making it operational. Let's be honest, that's what we're talking about. Here, the people of different parties stole together, especially in the inner districts. We saw a miracle in the wake of the election campaign in the capital, when a candidate who was marching in age-changing colors turned out to have been to Fidesz, had already been to the Socialist Party. Well, he hasn't been to us, he won't. That's exactly the story of the VI, VII. The district has been characterized either by the campaign or in recent years, it shows that the parties that ruled this country and the capital after the change of regime are not interested in ensuring clean relations in Budapest. You have exacerbated the situation by putting the capital city in the hands of district mayors, and now you are reaching for a tool that is genderless on the one hand; it is not without because, after the elections, fundamentally changes the authority of the elected official are unfair not only to persons, elected persons or candidates, but also to voters. And the solution would not be to grant the Mayor a right of veto that could very easily make the work of the body of representatives elected by the people impossible, but to finally return to the concepts that were on the table in 1990 and make the capital operational. And one more thing. At the time when István Tarlós has such a license in his hands, as opposed to the representatives of the general meeting, they are not simply trying to break down the mayors: they also break down those representatives who have been on the compensation list, although the parties who sent representatives from the compensation list voted on the Fidesz-KDNP party alliance on 12 October 2014. That's the thing. The majority of the voters in the capital are facing this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-268	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna ask if there are other factions who want to make a lead speaker. [[For signal:]] Yes, this is Agnes Kunhalmi. I'll give you the floor as a lead speaker.
u2014-11-10-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Members, Fidesz, began by welcoming this law; I would not welcome it, but would be quite simply ashamed. I would be ashamed that the two-thirds of them were abused in such an unprecedented way after the change of regime; you would not have won this election, and you know it very well. Because the bill before us is an exact cross-section of how governance has been in place since 2010. The most important organizing power of the proposal is the idea from the air. There is no particularly far-reaching idea, and the government has never made it clear and clear what kind of self-government it is thinking. In the current situation, solutions, which appear to be good ideas, are present in the law, which can be good for a fidesz character right now. Ideas are primarily used to correct errors resulting from earlier ideas. They answer a previous wrong law with a new flaw, which may be able to escape a bigger problem right now. The current salad law is based on the capital of the capital due to the rewriting of the law on the Capital Assembly in May. [[20.40]] The fact is that Fidesz and the left were at the 2014 parliamentary elections in Budapest. The entire left-wing opposition received more votes than the Fideszes. Within weeks, at the beginning of the summer, the law was passed to destroy the Metropolitan Assembly in its form, which introduced the Metropolitan Assembly of district mayors and the new Budapest electoral system. The meaning of this is now clear in the light of the election results. Recently, an independent expert study showed that Fidesz would not have a majority today, and there would not be a majority in the Budapest General Assembly today, based on the electoral system still in force in May. However, the new election system was essentially an unmanageable capital city. Perhaps even around the government, there are some sober people who might know that the 21st century is the case. It's gonna be a century of cities. The decades ahead will be about the competition of cities beyond the nation states. The management, identity, international role and attractiveness of cities will determine success and success. Even today and in the future, it is increasingly the decision of a large city and, in part, the success of a given nation whether it will succeed in attracting and attracting creative energies, innovators, entrepreneurs, to work, to do things, fresh ideas and energies. This requires a united, understandable, sustainable city with a credible vision for the world. Well, Fidesz has put this unified management in jeopardy because of its own interests. In May of this year, you re-created the Metropolitan Assembly from the district mayors, making the Metropolitan Municipality a lobby for the interests of parts of the city. I could say that the Metropolitan Assembly and Budapest have also been reduced to a battlefield of interest. This bad idea is the capital part of the bill before us. You settle a number of cases under the authority of the Mayor, but in fact, because in the new structure you would not be able to operate a single Budapest. The veto law that is intended to be introduced is still extremely difficult, and the related issues are in fact only slightly clarifying this otherwise inoperable and inoperable structure. The right of veto empties the institution of the general assembly, and, as my colleague before me put it, makes it a biodecorate of its characters. Another idea is to connect the county council headquarters to the county seat. Typically, this amendment solves a problem that is also caused by you. This is about Salgótarján, as has already been mentioned by speakers before me, where after the lost election, the Fidesses of the County Assembly would transfer the seat of the General Assembly to Balassagyarmat. The T/1767. Reading along with the number 1 proposal, it becomes clear that this proposal was prepared for the situation after the municipal election results. It broadens the possibilities of Fidesz settlements, reduces opposition opportunities, while further tightens the world of small settlements, mainly due to budgetary considerations. On the basis of the draft budget, it is clear that small settlements are simply being dismantled, the local government is being liquidated, and that, in contrast to official government intentions, small settlements are being made more difficult. As we have seen during the nominations of the autumn election, there will be less and less local government leaders, which in the long run can prepare for the abolition of the small local government. According to press reports, there is such an intention on the other side of the Budapest districts. Thus, the proposal as a whole is actually going on the path that we have seen since 2010: they are seeking the quiet elimination of the Hungarian municipal world. Overall, we see bad ideas adapted to election results, people and moments in this proposal, which have been the result of bad ideas. Please, it's good to know, and it's good to know that we've never managed to save a ship that's been leaked before, with those on board drilling holes in the deck, in case the water starts flowing outwards. This bill will result in further difficulties and failure in the local government sphere. As far as the metropolitan administration is concerned, there needs real thinking and vision, which Fidesz has simply been unable to do since 2010. They expect you, and what we expect from you is, instead of this bullshit that we see, they'd rather reveal their true ideas about the future of the capital, if any, than always win at any cost. The MSZP faction will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-270	Thank you. I am now the first to give the floor to Gábor Staudt, who made a written statement of his intention to speak.
u2014-11-10-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I'd like to satisfy you with a few thoughts. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] add to the solo before me. (Faintness. ) I see my fellow Members are watching me now. [[István Apáti: Freudian comment! Very good.]] [[Defiance.]] add to the solo before me. (Faintness. ) I see my fellow Members are watching me now. (István Apáti: Freudian comment! Very good!) For you, however, what I am about to say will not be satisfactory (Development.) 'Cause it's gonna be critical, it's gonna be a lot of criticism, and you guys love that, just like the events of the past period have shown us. The first thing I... [[Interjections, disclosure.]] I see we've brought great joy, but the subject is more serious than that. Did my colleague, Mrs Loránt Violin, tell you? And here I would like to move on to point one, point one. What is that, a section that refers to tax incentives? It is important to look very carefully at what, when and in what way we give tax relief or allow local authorities to grant tax relief, as this could be a good tool for attracting or keeping businesses, of course. So there may be an instrument available to local authorities, but it can also go backwards if we give tax incentives or even give state discounts to investments, as we have seen at state level in many places, that often the stench of abuse or the mood of abuse hangs around some of these investments, and often we see that these forints may not go where they should go most. This is mostly the case for large companies, multi-company companies. We have also said in this context that small and medium-sized enterprises could create much more jobs from the same amount that was available to multi-company companies, and in many cases we only achieve, say, five years of holding a job, and in many cases, more per capita support than the state money paid; nothing else than the state's money to fund these jobs. In order to avoid this, we have examined very carefully what your proposal concerns. We have seen that it does not exclude the richer again, because if we incorporate in this proposal what my colleague, Mrs Hegedűs, and Mrs Hegedűs, tabled as an amending proposal that this is mostly for small and medium-sized enterprises, and here I am thinking of paragraph 3, for the expenditure on research of the enterprise, so if it comes up in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, then we can say that there really can be an incentive for them to start these researches, to spend money to keep the Hungarian grey stock here in Hungary and to start something. But if we give this to the biggest people who are doing research anyway, we can certainly see that they will be freed from an existing cost by the municipalities, and it cannot be guaranteed that this will, if appropriate, be a tax advantage so that certain municipalities will be able to use it to an extent that goes beyond their objective and to lure large companies to it or otherwise provide them with discounts. [[20.50]] I am thinking about the research expenditure of the enterprise, so if it comes up in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, then we can say that it can indeed be an incentive for them to start these researches, spend money to keep the Hungarian grey stock here in Hungary and start something. But if we give this to the biggest people who are doing research anyway, we can certainly see that they will be freed from an existing cost by the municipalities, and it cannot be guaranteed that this will, if appropriate, be a tax advantage so that certain municipalities will be able to use it to an extent that goes beyond their objective and to lure large companies to it or otherwise provide them with discounts.(20.50) So if you really want to support small and medium-sized enterprises, then in support of the amendment tabled by my colleague Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, can these subsidies be targeted where I think you are destined? Or should we be positive where you're meant to be? We do not allow local authorities, especially larger authorities, to abuse this. As far as the capital is concerned, I do not want to repeat what has been said before me. Indeed, changing the conditionality as you do here is not appropriate, and I would say that you would not stand the test of constitutionality if you had not filled the Constitutional Court with your own people and had not deprived the Members of Parliament of turning to the Constitutional Court. So in this case, you would not stand the test of constitutionality. But, of course, it is possible to say that it is not possible for the Constitutional Court to decide on this, but it does not mean that changes in the rules are really too elegant and are not legally justified after the election. I'm asking you to think about what's going on. And now I'm thinking the mayor's veto? If a situation arises because you will not always be the political force giving the majority in the capital, so what if there is a Capital Assembly, where there is a strong majority of a political force, a political party or a party alliance, but there is another party or even an independent mayor who will constantly throw back every decision in the world. Where is this democratic and where does it meet the will of voters? Or even the mayors of the district, or mayors who have been elected there and are giving the decisive majority of the vote to the Metropolitan Assembly in the new system, will vote in the same direction, whether by two thirds, four fifths or even completely unanimously, and this can be overwritten by a mayor veto, and there is no limit to this, either numerically or otherwise. This is a much stronger driver's license than the President of the Republic will be given. You can't even compare the two. Of course, it would not be a problem if we tried to coordinate the work of the Mayor and the General Assembly, or if we were to give the Mayor extra licenses, if necessary, so that decisions which may not be passed over or passed over so easily that, where appropriate, there is not enough consideration behind them. But it's that even through cycles, because if you're elected mayor for two cycles, which is ten years at the moment, you can block a decision for ten years. All you have to do is that if the 15 days are up, you'll ask for a new decision on the subject again. Then it will never pass, no matter how much majority the assembly voted. I feel a little uncompressed, and if you weren't the mayor of Fidesz-KDNP now, you would say that this is not the way to govern the capital, so you can't go from one to the other. This could come back pretty bad later. It'd be nice if you'd get a little further away from thinking that you'd only write the laws on yourself and your own mayor, your mayor. Let there be a warning example of what happened in Ózd, where Jobbik won by two thirds after you provoked the voters there with their arrogance, that even those who did not go to vote in the first round, during the election in October, but seeing how you were doing about it, went out and supported Jobbik's candidate in a large majority. That way, the Jobbik candidate got more than twice as many votes as the Fidesz candidate could. Things are changing so fast. And when that happens in Ozdon, it can very easily happen in other settlements of the country or even in parliamentary elections. And then what a new Parliament will inherit, or even you will inherit from the opposition, is a completely useless legal environment written for nothing but themselves or their vassals serving in the municipalities. As we can see? And now I really wouldn't repeat the conflict of interest rules, because they were very well explained by the speakers before me? , it's lex fidesz and KDNP again It's written for congressmen. We don't know who they are, there may be more of them, there may be fewer of them, but as we have seen in the previous cycle, this referral could not have been made if individual interests were not in the background. That's just a blur on the cake, but I have to mention it, because it hasn't been mentioned yet, perhaps it will still be among the speakers after me that it is not a very fair thing either, especially to the voters, to raise the mayor's benefits further. In 2012, the mayor's fee was doubled. The increase in itself could have been explained in such a way that the mayor did not specifically include a pass on his fee, which would have dealt with the mayor's honor. All right, we understand that being mayor is a more serious responsibility, and this implies a more serious financial consideration than even for a district mayor or mayor in a small town, but that meant a double increase during the cycle, well, this was not the most important topic that people met in connection with the leadership of Budapest or their everyday life. Again, it was a circumstance that could not be foreseen. I could also say a little cynically what would have happened if Gábor Demszky had smelled and started again. What if they double your fee? Did you miss your pension anyway? You might have said you'd take another term, and then István Tarlós wouldn't have won, because Gábor Demszky got a lot more votes than István Tarlós at any time, or any of the Fidesz-KDNP candidates. Of course, this may be an exaggeration, and I am not crying back at Gábor Demszky, thank God it didn't start and, of course, didn't win, the furthest thing from me is to regret it, but with a slight exaggeration, raising the prize to double in 2012 was also a questionable step. The raise may not have been, but the fact that it shouldn't have been raised twice, we might be able to agree on that. Now these benefits will be increased by you, and you will add that you will receive other benefits from the mayor, which has been granted to the ministers so far, and I am not talking about the salary, but about other additional allowances. I do not know what the purpose of this proposal is. Was that part of the Orbán-Tarlos deal? Seems a little small to me, especially after the double raise, like I said. If one of the present members of the government can explain why this was done, or what it is intended to do to further increase the mayor's allowance, then do so. Otherwise, it is not a good practice, and it is true not only of the Mayor and Deputy Mayors, but also of the CEOs of Budapest, who can also receive service vehicles and related petrol costs for their private trips abroad, but not only reimbursement, but also unlimited use. This should be regulated in some way. In addition, a number of complaints were made by Jobbik against executives in the capital, who, in our opinion, did not make proper use of the assets of the public, or even used public money for private purposes. These were thrown back by the prosecutor's office and the police by the fact that there was no sufficiently detailed regulation to do so. Then they should also be regulated by law, although I think that if something is out of regulation, that it can be used by a company manager for his own confessed private purposes, then he cannot basically use it, since we are talking about public funds. [[21.00]] But it seems to me that they are going to go in this direction to give as many benefits as possible to the executives of the capital, obviously the capital will give them to the mayor or the parliament will give them to the mayor. So I'm asking you to clarify this, or if you can provide me with any information as to why this could have been included in the proposal, then do it. It's just a foam on the cake, and it's also a capital curiosity that a four-fifth vote is required in the law for the dissolution of the Metropolitan Assembly. It's just another area that just doesn't make sense. In any case, if half of a body or more than half of a body with a representative decides to disband that body, this can also be the case for Parliament, then this can happen. Why should this be increased to four fifths at the Metropolitan Assembly? What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Not two-thirds, four-fifths, why is this raised? That's hard to understand, and that's what we're looking for. Of course, we cannot support the proposal in this form. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-272	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Mihály Balla in a 15-minute time frame. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Go, Salgótarján!]]
u2014-11-10-273	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, In my speech, I would like to talk about a subject in the context of the general debate and here in the legislative process, which has already been mentioned by several of my fellow Members. But I'll come back to my mind and tell you that some of the things you're seeing are wrong. Especially because, in my comment, my goal is also to say that the 4th floor is the 4th floor. I would like to amend Section 4 of the Act and to amend Article 4 of the Act. § 4 is deleted by the law. The reason I think that I may be able to clarify what you have said is precisely because some people here may not know that when the General Assembly of Nógrád County decided to place the seat of the General Assembly on Balassagyarmat on 22 November in the county of Nógrád [[Interviews from Jobbik: It's not even November 22nd, isn't it October?]] , then 8 yes, 5 abstentions and 1 vote against at that time within the assembly. In this, there were 5 Fidesz, 2 Jobbikos and 1 MSZP votes in favour of transferring the seat of the county assembly from the county seat to Balassagyarmat. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And basically the point of the amendment now is that, in fact, the amendment would ensure that the county municipality can have its seat in a city of the county, which is also justified by the historical, economic and social importance of the city. This option is without prejudice to the legal, administrative or administrative status of the county seat. In particular, because since 1994 county assemblies have not been voted on in county seats and the general assembly of county seats has not been voted in other municipalities in the counties. So the general assemblies are elected by voters outside the county seat, by those outside the county seat. As of January 2012, the Local Government Act, which was established in 2011, changed the role of county assemblies from the role of institutional maintenance to the function of strategic creator, territorial development, planning and coordinating it. The county seat decides independently in its own development matters, so basically it determines its strategy, its development ideas at all, through its own general meeting. The legitimacy of the county authorities is primarily ensured by the votes living outside the county seat. At the time when you made this decision, which was criticised here by the municipality of Nógrád, it was essentially decided by representatives of the local government, elected representatives of the general assembly, who, if we counted it together, could have been behind about 70 percent of the votes cast on all county lists. And once again, I would like to stress that the decision of the county assembly does not affect the status, administration and administration of Salgótarján county in any way. Perhaps as a representative of Balassagyarmat's region, let me say that this is, in fact, a partly historical correction. If we rewind 14 December 1949 in history, they changed the county's seat with a pen stroke, a decision, a government decision. Therefore, I believe that, with local regional representatives elected by settlements beyond or outside the county seat, the county municipal representatives, those who have basically received a mandate, in territorial development matters that affect the entire county, will be responsible. On the other hand, I think it is very important that you also address a question that respects the county seat, Salgótarján is an administrative centre, the centre of the institution maintenance system, and that does not change its status. The fact that the General Assembly transferred its seat to Balassagyarmat was actually a historical correction, without victims or any pain caused by, say, 1949. And allow me one more thought, which is why I submitted this amendment to the bill, which is based on the 4th amendment. Section 2 would be excluded, since in the previous municipal law, the rules of organisation and operation of the county authorities provide for the seat. I believe that, if there is an open debate or debate about this, this decision of this region is actually about the fact that a mandate has been authorised by a general assembly whose members, perhaps on a territorial basis, may have decided to vote on an initiative based on their historical approach in the county. So I believe that, on the one hand, we are trying to respect this decision and, on the other, by requesting the withdrawal of the paragraph from the amendment by the local Member of Parliament, I hope that he will have many people's understanding and support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-10-274	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-10-275	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We silenced Congressman Tamás László's exposé and found it quite pathetic. There was only one thing that was missing from it, what my fellow Member Kunhalmi said, but perhaps others mentioned in the debate why he did not start by saying, Mr President, that the only reason why you now have the majority in the Capital Assembly is that four months before the elections, the election system was changed. I understand, Congressman, that you can tell a fairy tale around the new situation, but it would be appropriate to put these facts on the table here in Parliament at least. Then Congressman Vas Imre didn't say much more, and he said what his fellow Member said in the title of the expoze, with a little bit of difficulty reading it. I sincerely hope that we will hear more substantive arguments in this debate. Because from my fellow Member who spoke before me, we heard only a very small slice of the bill before us. Ladies and gentlemen, I like to treat laws as part of certain processes, put them in a certain context. It can be misleading to take it out of the process, as a sentence can be misleading if it is highlighted from the context. Let us take a look at this, especially in the light of the fact that my fellow Members have spent about three quarters of their contributions under the previous municipal law, and about a quarter of what they have to say on this law. If I do not wish to define this ratio in this way, it is indeed necessary to refer back to previous legislative proposals. [[21.10]] Ladies and gentlemen! This method that you are now doing here has already worked for you in the parliamentary elections. In the parliamentary elections, there was nothing more than a change in the parliamentary electoral rules, a rewrite with district boundaries, and as a result, the electoral will has been overwritten by a two-thirds majority of you in Parliament, despite the fact that you have lost 500 thousand voters, despite the fact that the opposition parties sitting here in the parliamentary horseshoe have overall voted 7-8 percent more voters than you have. Nevertheless, by rewriting the electoral system, you have become two-thirds majority. Then, honourable Members, they adopted a new house rule guaranteeing that they could live properly here in the new Parliament with this new majority. Then, ladies and gentlemen, when you saw the result of the parliamentary elections here, the provisions of the new house regulation that could not then be fully personalized were quickly rewritten with a relatively soon tabled amendment. Remember, let's say, the chairman's right to vote or, in fact, the rule of departure from the house rule. Well, my fellow Members, they are doing nothing but doing the same mechanism by means of municipal laws and rewriting the system of rules applicable to the local government. They're creating a new electoral system, an election system that guarantees you that by overwriting the electoral will, they can win the municipal election by practically a statutory election fraud. Then the Metropolitan Assembly will establish rules that will adapt to the situation in the most optimal way for you the rules of the capital, which were otherwise completely different for a long time. They eliminate the factions, what they really are, and, at the same time, they are, of course, distracting the benefits, the opportunities of the opposition, the small parties in the capital sense, which, by the way, were or would have been appropriate to them. The fact is that we are now in the context of what I have to say at the point where Jobbik or LMP would otherwise have 2-3-4 representatives in the Metropolitan Assembly with a faction, right now they have a representative without a faction and without any benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, That's what you call a democratic attitude, isn't it? Then it is not enough that they do so, the Metropolitan Assembly, in a very elegant manner, together with the fact that we are now raising the mayor's allowances here, will reduce his salary to the representatives of the capital on the list; they will reduce it from 25 per cent to 15 per cent compared to the Mayor's salary. Does that mean that a metropolitan congressman who got in on a list is gonna make a lot more than a district rep, if he's gonna make more money anyway, by the way? I'm gonna say it again? he will not be entitled to any other allowance or reimbursement. And then, ladies and gentlemen, while we are at it, in the same way as in the previous amendment of the House Rule in the case of Parliament, let me now put it this amendment to the law to tie up the loose ends, optimize the system to the full extent of the situation that has arisen as a result of the elections. I would also add, of course, that the House will soon discuss the new bill regulating the status of mayor and the changed status of labour law among the legal status laws. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you really think people don't see that, by the way? They know exactly what it is, and they see what it is. I would also add that I expressly resent that and consider it cynical, Mr. Secretary of State, on your part? For you? That, when I asked you a week ago, on an immediate question, whether the government is planning to give the mayor veto, you did not answer that question. Then, when I asked the Secretary of State in the rejoinder to do so, Mr Secretary, that he would answer this question because he had forgotten my previous question, then you again avoided answering it as a brave man, and you did not answer that question. Then, four days later, they submit a bill concerning the mayor's right to veto. Mr. Secretary, don't fool us, I apologize for the expression by saying that you didn't know that at the time. Don't tell me that. And you don't tell me that the Ministry wasn't a partner in the development of this law, and you, as Secretary of State for Local Government, couldn't have answered that when I asked you that. No, Mr. Secretary, you did not want to answer that question at the time, which I consider to be an outrage. Also, Mr Secretary of State, it is here that you asked yourself, quite rightly, how I could ask you a question about city concept and similar changes, since we choose the municipality for five years, and, of course, significant changes in the municipality's life should not happen within these five years. Compared to this, I would say once again that a week later we will discuss with your participation the bill where there will be significant changes in the status of the Mayor and the legal status of the Members, as well as in the form of their remuneration. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in parallel with increasing the powers of one of the players in the system, it is automatically associated with the fact that the scope and powers of other actors are reduced. Because, of course, everything can be translated, and it will also be true that, with the inauguration of the veto right of the Mayor, elected representatives who have been elected for five years by the Hungarian voters and the voters of Budapest will lose power. I think that if Mr Secretary of State's statement was correct a week ago, then it is also right for this situation, even if it is not in your interest now. I could ask the same question, although it will obviously remain unanswered, as my fellow Members have asked, who are the same people that make the rules of conflict of interest need to be amended. It is likely that several doctors and the director of health institutions have been elected over the past period, since around this time they allow this profession not to become incompatible with the local government office. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am not the first to say in today's debate that they are not a person's right, but more, this is still personalised legislation, as if they were changing legislation for the sake of one person, as has so many times happened in the previous parliamentary term. It is also interesting, honourable Members, whether there is a serious correlation between the fact that the salaries of small town mayors are being cut off and the phenomenon between the vast majority of these mayor positions being won by independent Members. I mean, where it's in your best interest, and the Fidesz party cadets are good for it, where they don't, where they're reduced, then obviously the budgetary interests come to the fore, the more you can save, and perhaps the shortcomings of the tax administration can be mitigated a little, and everyone here knows it, and think that I put it very nicely and elegantly. Finally, what one of my fellow Members said, or what he specifically said, is that these assemblies should operate in the county seat or not in the county seat. [[21.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say two things. One is that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, my fellow Member, I think he correctly stated that perhaps their debates within the Group should not be held here at the Parliament's plenary, but should be discussed and made some kind of decision in this. However, I think that it is an exaggeration, my honourable fellow Member, that, not only does Parliament have to pass the law because you cannot decide something within the group, but this debate is going to escalate to such an extent that you, Fidesz Members, and then other Fidesz Members, in the general debate of this bill, tell us that it will not be so, but that there will be another amendment, and we will take it all back, take it out of the law? I understand the Member's speech. I understand how they say... [[Mihály Balla intervenes.]] I can't hear you. I'm sorry, Congressman. [[For the intervention of Michael Balla:]] I see. I would also like to suggest one thing for consideration. I believe and accept that there are interests in transferring a general assembly from one city to another, its seat, of course. But don't you think that, first of all, before the elections, we should have told the voters that they had such a plan? That's a first. Because I think this story would have been clear if, with your two-thirds mandate, this had been discussed in advance, or perhaps a local referendum had been held to decide whether to move the seat of the general assembly or not, but in any case I do not think it is right to elect a general assembly according to the old rules and then move it suddenly? did this decision take place within a day or two after the elections? Technically, right away, in another city. I know that there was a socialist Member who voted for this, and I understand that, and obviously if I were you, I would make the same argument, because I cannot make any other argument, and I would do so. The other question is whether the majority of this party agrees with this decision or not, but I think that, out of respect for voters, this is not a fortunate solution. It is not a fortunate solution even if a socialist Member has voted in favour of the proposal and even if he has not. It's still your majority responsibility. Even so, it is your majority responsibility, which cannot be agreed with, and the optics are very poor, to do so after the election was won by the Socialist Mayor in the city where the assembly has been operating. That's the thing. Is that bad enough? I'm gonna say it again? Your optics. Well, fellow Members, what more can we say about this law? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] negatives in the first place, but since time is up, maybe later. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-10-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-277	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is interesting that during the general debate on the amendment of the laws concerning certain local governments, I am reminded of the activities of those sitting in the benches of Fidesz, a line of the Welsh bards:. It stands silent silence; fly its wings inside, / it is not visible, it is not heard. In addition to the fact that you here at the beginning of the debate took their pre-written papers and read them, you have nothing to say about the debate. That's the two-thirds arrogance, by the way, we've talked about a lot of times. At most, every once in a while, Imre Vas looks at a fellow Member, wondering what these people are talking about to me, and sometimes we get, say, from Lajos Szűcs, an angry look, that the opposition dares to stand up at all, and dares to say anything at all and argue with each other, because you do not speak, there is only one thing that has not yet been responded to. I began to think about why this is happening, and I might try to disprove some of my fellow Members' speeches instead of you. I shall begin immediately with my own, lest others should be offended: Gábor Staudt, when he spoke here, he said something that could not be done; right, Gábor Staudt said what would happen if the General Assembly of Budapest had a completely different hand than what is now, and these laws would apply. Such a situation will never happen, since these laws are now written down in this situation. You're trying to pass this law now...? It is written down that István Tarlós is the mayor, and you are the majority of the Metropolitan Assembly. If that doesn't happen, it won't be the law, because you're going to change it very quickly in your little witch kitchen, where you're going to calculate what the outcome of an election is, they're going to turn the laws into those numbers all the time. Here's another thing, by the way, because you're forgetting to tell me that this is the last such term in the capital. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] This is the last time we've got metropolitan district councils that have mayors. After all, you will be transforming the entire municipal system in Budapest from 2016 onwards, creating the Budapest Act. You know very well that this is your plan, and there will be no metropolitan authorities, no metropolitan mayors; it will be for five years. But if you can't do this for some reason, then you will change the law, of course, before 2018 as you can calculate. What do you mean? And I'm arguing with Andras Schiffer? András Schiffer mentioned Viktor Orbán's speech and said that Viktor Orbán said that we would not change the wrong decision with the wrong decision, and András Schiffer meant that you would broaden the powers of the mayor. He's only wrong that when you made the so-called wrong decision, you didn't make the wrong choice from your own point of view. After all, the municipal law was redesigned so that you in the capital knew very well that you couldn't make the majority, so you've changed it so that you've set yourself first and foremost the goal of pushing Jobbik and LMP out of the Metropolitan Assembly. All the measurements show that if you hadn't changed the law, if the municipal elections had gone down under the laws applicable in May, you wouldn't be in the majority of the general assembly right now, and LMP and Jobbik would have a very big say in how Budapest works and how to live its life. You didn't want that. You wanted to have the same two-pole system that was very comfortable for you from 90 to 90, to develop a two-pole system that you might still be able to do anything in the background, and that was your main goal. They did that because they're doing it right now? Can you say that? You are the majority of the capital. By the way, they have not been able to change very simple and bad regulators in almost five years, with a two-thirds government of five years. That's what Gábor Staudt mentioned. To mention just one thing: the Metropolitan Assembly has now adopted a decree to allow the Mayor and Deputy Mayors to use their vehicles for unlimited or private purposes. It's a bad example. Everyone can remember it when Gábor Demszky traveled down to the Adriatic with state money and public money. I'm not saying that István Tarlós will travel to the Adriatic or go on a journey around the world, but he should. He's supposed to be. You haven't even been able to control this in the last five years, that at least... I understand that if you have a service car for private use, you could include that when you go home in the morning, you can use this car for private use. But somehow, let's limit it so that no one travels to Europe, let's say, on public money, because he has the opportunity to do so! So what I'm saying is that you clearly want to do what you want in this country and so in the capital. They forget one thing; they have been playing games with the capital of the country for more than four years now and are playing games with the people of Budapest. This two-thirds arrogance may not be good for you, since the two-thirds arrogance? Do they always refer to two thirds? They got it in Oz yesterday. That was a two-thirds! [[Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] And these two-thirds were largely thanks to you. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks:]] Because what happened in Ozdon? The mayor won a very small 66 votes difference, and then you took it, and you started attacking it, so that we'd show it now, and how good it is... Of course, they were able to get nearly 1,000 votes for that vote, but then after that, we got more than 5200, and that led to two-thirds. [[21.30]] You don't think that's gonna happen in the capital? Yes, you can. If they continue like this, it can happen very quickly, otherwise, and then they can experience how good it is to have, say, two-thirds arrogance. One more thing: if you look at today's program, there is one very interesting thing. Here's to an urgent trial. Why do we have to do this in an urgent trial? Because the Metropolitan Assembly was established on Friday. The Metropolitan Assembly was formed in such a way that it was already slippery! Why did it slip? Because you, where you knew, attacked the results everywhere. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] Where you didn't win, and where you knew, you attacked the results everywhere with different, uh, things to say and excuses to say. There was, however, a legal basis for this, where there was no legal basis. But not only did they do this in Budapest, in the districts, but in every corner of the country, you couldn't endure defeat with dignity if you were losing somewhere. So it slipped! What would have happened if the Metropolitan Assembly had been able to form properly? Then what kind of urgency would we have discussed? Urgent and urgent? Here comes the question that Gergely Bárándy asked whether this law was ready when he asked you these questions. It had to be ready! 'Cause you guys were supposed to be preparing for the Capital Assembly to be formed at a normal time. But no! They wait for the last moment when the assembly was set up, they bring it in here, we bring it down quickly, you don't even say a word to it, let the opposition tell you, let them explain in peace what they want, and we will vote nicely with the two-thirds of you. In my opinion, is that enough? Don't I want to say nasty words? It's a despicable procedure they're doing right now. It is a rather vile procedure that when voters were allowed to vote in municipal elections, they were not aware of things that you are now changing not quite a month after the municipal elections. They didn't realize what you were thinking of the future. So I'm also asking Imre Vas to stand up? And I know it's not written right now? and answer these questions that we have spoken to you about. You can also answer that question, because, for example, we would be happy if I were right about whether there will be a Budapest law. Because we want there to be a Budapest law. We have been saying for a very long time that there should be a separate law for Budapest. If you are planning to become a Budapest law, we are happy to do so. Here are the last two things I might want to say and come up with. I also have to agree with Mr Barándy that you will write down the reasons for how democratic and functioning the Capital Assembly has become with this transformation. What is democracy about, for example, when you say in the list votes that they represent Budapest with the Mayor, so the votes representing Budapest are absolute second-rate votes. Members who are on the list are absolutely second-rate representatives at the Metropolitan Assembly. Absolutely, everything! Not just benefits, rights and everything else. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Right to vote!]] The value of the vote is a fraction of the number of mayors with the lowest population. What democratic principles are these? ! But okay, that's the law, that's what's been passed by two-thirds, that's what's happening right now. But why did it take the fourth fifth law to break up? Maybe it's because you'll start in 2016, say, and we'll start negotiating the new Budapest law in the House, and by the time we get to the end, your mayors, who are sitting in there right now, will be so rebelled that they might say, "Well, that's enough for me." And you want to stop them, even their own people, from having to have at least four fifths to break up the assembly. Because even the law says this in vain, because if the Metropolitan Assembly were to be dissolved before the adoption of the law, then the municipal elections should be carried out according to the rules currently in force; not according to the new law, but according to the current rules. And might those mayors be able to block the laws, the laws of Budapest, that you will be constantly seeking to pass in the House from 2016 onwards? Maybe that's why. Yeah, I know, we're always talking about visions, and you're telling me that, wow, we're seeing monsters. It's only usually in 2-3 days. [[Intercoms: They're showing up!]] That these monsters are so. In two or three days, they'll know they are. Here's an example. Now they asked me again in interpellation, the answer was that I didn't know about it, he avoided the whole thing, and then three days later, he's here before us, and he has veto rights. Will he have veto rights or not? Of course you will. He'll be here. You'll accept that. The mayor has been given enormous powers, at some level, counterbalanced, I suppose, because he wouldn't have taken it otherwise. This is also a problem, I am convinced that huge back-up agreements have resulted in this law, as it has been described here. This background agreement was concluded between two people, in all likelihood between István Tarlós and Viktor Orbán. By the way, it might be, though we're just guessing, because you won't answer that four days ago, the Secretary of State didn't know what the answer was. It is also possible that on Friday, when Viktor Orbán visited István Tarlós, if any, they agreed on the final touches. Viktor Orbán was at the general assembly, he was at the opening ceremony, he gave his speech. Before that, he talked to István Tarlós, and there may have been the final frontier when they said, now, then, that's just right. I believe that, too. Just be honest with me. They may have two-thirds, of course, of course. Maybe the voters thought so then. But it may also be that if they knew you were getting two thirds, because you would have been aware of the electoral laws, and they would have known that even when very, very many of you turned away, they could still get two thirds, they wouldn't have voted for you. In fact, I would venture that if the Fidesz voters could vote again now, knowing whether they want you to have two thirds or not, they might not vote for you, and they might not want these two thirds. I asked you to consider whether this law is okay with you. Please consider whether you would like to speak honestly, at least tell us your plans honestly, tell us your intentions sincerely, and then at least we'll know, if you don't play clearly, but at least with open cards. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-10-278	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not be so bold as to expect an honest speech from my fellow Members with Fidesz, since in the last four to four and a half years we have seen that there are serious problems with this, and it is not usually a success. I would like to subpoena Ildikó Vida in style, who, after making a statement on the columns of the Hungarian Nation, said that, by the way, he was advised to be honest, because lies and corruption go hand in hand and walk together. So, after four to four and a half years of lying to the government, there are still questions left, I think, and there is a lot to be clarified. Many of you from the benches of Fidesz began to politicalize and actively participate in public life either before the change of regime or around the change of regime. To be honest, I sometimes think about it, as we talk in this House and try to have a dialogue, whether this was the career they imagined, or whether this was the way they imagined political work, what it was like to legislate, to legislate, to serve the common good. So was that really their plan? I mean, what's going on right now, the fact that the Prime Minister's distorted and selfish illusions of power and his mirages are being served as tools every day, I'd really like to know what you think of that, but obviously, if you answer that in your own right, it's best. By the way, in the context of the law, my fellow Member Bárándy mentioned the mayors of small towns. It is clear that they will now kick everyone, and it is a matter of time before they remain almost entirely alone, because they serve only a very, very narrow group interest, that is what this law is all about. Civil servants and people are constantly being used, and when their interests desire to throw people away, they leave them in a difficult situation. [[21.40]] They do this to people who, by the way, can improve the lives of those there on the ground, and who would have a meaningful say so that, by the way, the wrong policy of the government might still be remedied locally. People who may be there as independents are not overmotivated to have room for manoeuvre and can actually help. By the way, István Tarlós is the outstretched hand of Viktor Orbán at the head of the capital, as we have seen in the politics of the last few years. And to be honest, is it the inaugural meeting of the general assembly? where Viktor Orbán visited, and it seemed to him that he was very pleased to hear what István Tarlós said? I think it's fundamentally outrageous, because István Tarlós once again managed to make a huge diplomatic mistake. The lucky thing is that, by the way, the Mayor's word may not matter, but he is saying the same thing as the Prime Minister, what the Foreign Minister is doing and the entire Hungarian government, so they keep pulling the problems on themselves. I think that there is no way that this can end well, and by no means serves the development of the capital city, so that István Tarlós also speaks of this rhetoric. By the way, Mr Tarlós has allowed the powers of the municipalities to be undermined in recent years, the Municipality of Budapest has also been completely emptied, the funds have been taken away, the resources have been taken away from local authorities, so in fact there is only one empty frame left, where all of them are trying to achieve the illusions of one man who is incredibly incapable, and I think that you may not be doing this with a good heart either. So basically, what the Prime Minister said here about the appointment of Mr Tasnádi, if I remember correctly, is that a mistake cannot be corrected by error, so this law, which is about to be adopted, would otherwise remedy the mistake by mistake, or at least make mistakes. So, overall, you can say that you're tying up the capital, trying to save what's salvageable, cementing your power so that it's constantly losing weight, the layer you prefer, it's running out, you're kicking everyone. I think they should listen to their consciences, not completely empty the capital, and if possible? And can you admit this naivety to my age? "Think about whether they intended to go through their political careers under such conditions. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-280	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We're probably not gonna be long, you can go to sleep, I see, you're very tired of the debate, it's very boring for you, and it's an agony for us to deal with such proposals. By the way, I would like to inform my fellow opposition Members that it was probably because after the conclusion of the Orbán-Tarlós pact the entire Fidesz fraction was waiting for Imre Vas to nod, they could wait to see what Imre Vas would say about this proposal. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] By the way, his person has made the whole case suspicious again, because what Imre Vas is signing is a very serious problem. Vas Imre is a beacon, a paint in the parliamentary process, because he can do everything, so he has unlimited extras, he can do everything, and he can read everything very accurately, sometimes, but sometimes stuck, but he can read it. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Firstly, let us start with the part of the tax exemption proposal. Paragraph 1 might even be eligible, although the tax base of HUF 2.5 million is considered to be low. If you really want to help small and medium-sized enterprises, would that be appropriate? At least this one? adopt a more advanced amount than the final vote in order to enable the municipalities to establish exemption or concession rules for as many entrepreneurs as possible. Paragraph 3 stinks from afar, and this is support for research and development. Of course, it's very sellable, because it's a popular topic, you have to support these companies. But we can really think of Teva, but we can think of larger cities, cities with county rights, major research and development companies that can pay the local tax without any problems. I'm not sure, and I'm sure they're not the ones who should be the ones who get immunity. These resources could be used to help Hungarian entrepreneurs, to facilitate the situation of Hungarian entrepreneurs, either by adding new rules, or by identifying activities and occupations. Why, for example, do not support local construction contractors, small construction companies? Whether it is a family-married construction or a large investment, the whole construction industry is in huge trouble in its actual reality, regardless of statistical cosmetics. Why don't you support, say, food-producing businesses? Much smarter or much more useful goals could be identified. It is a fact that research and development is very important, and the Jobbik faction does not dispute this, but these companies are certainly not the most deprived of such benefits and exemptions. I do not wish to repeat what my colleague Hegedűsné and my fellow Members Staudt and Szilágyi have said, as I fully agree with them. You're basically shaping the system into a distorted image of Fidesz and Viktor Orbán, and now you're in such a panic-like rush? And has the parliamentary term been limited to half a year or a long half a year? That we are now almost month after month or slow to the point that these proposals will come in from week to week. At least the mayor's right of veto is more than dangerous and undemocratic. The four-fifth rule is quite interesting, because it is alive in my memory that in 2013 I presented a proposal for the protection of the four-fifths of the Hungarian public utility against any further privatisation. The point of this proposal is that if a government of any other colour would like to re-own the Hungarian utility assets bought back to a significantly overpriced amount or amount at any time in the future to large Hungarian or foreign businesses, this should only be done with a four-fifth parliamentary mandate according to specific rules. Then you have rejected, swept down at committee level, that this is not necessary, that the four-fifth rule is completely unnecessary, that there is plenty of two-thirds limit, that we do not need three-quarters, four-fifths of other restrictions. It's very interesting that we're looking at a rule of exactly four fifths here, and what's behind it could be that there's going to be some kind of conflict, some kind of tension on the inside? Besides, I really hope that not only in the capital, but more and more throughout the country, but in the capital for sure? Trying to keep the flock together by force? Or the pack, if you prefer it? They may not have representatives or mayors who, say, have a stronger will and a stronger character and have difficulty bending their spines or their will not to force another election in the capital. Four fifths is a thick, virtually 80 percent rule, for which it will be quite difficult to collect the necessary support. Obviously, they will be able to threaten anyone who may want to join in such a cooperation from the point of existential impossibility to their good habit. In any case, the shocking thing for me, honourable pro-government Members, is that it seems that the rules of political evolution do not apply or affect you, nor do external circumstances affect you. And they just don't want to? Have we achieved this slowly, after four and a half or five years? To hear the word of time that lies here, it is possible to make case-law rules for momentary individual interests, but once the Hungarian people are pissed off, if this incredibly bureaucratic people are once pissed off, then they can make any rules, because they will not vote for you. Or will they vote for the left or the radical opposition because they simply work with pride, power arrogance, contempt for others, threats and neocommunist neobolshevik methods? enter the party, and the opportunities will open up to you, who is not a Fidesz party member or who is not attached to Fidesz, because the whole country is loud and moaning under the burden of this? Sooner or later, they're gonna settle for that. They'll settle for the 15th. In the district of Ozdon, they'll be satisfied with Rakamazon, Rakamazon, and I'll have a long list of settlements where, as in Rakamazon, they've failed completely. They cleaned up their mayor and their six representatives as part of a cooperation, and they didn't have an Irish seed left for the Fidesz, thanks to God. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's because they've worked very hard on these years' hard, hard work. They didn't come to people kindly, normally, humbly, but tried to solve everything by force and terror, and this paid very well in the municipal elections on 12 October 2014. Not many places yet, but there are more and more of your serious problems, those cracks in the system, those severe cracks, cracks on the shield that are likely to escape your attention, they're obviously trying to bludgeon, they're blurring, they're good, they're just isolated phenomena. [[21.50]] In any case, I would like to draw your attention to Oz's multiple symbols and psychological effects, not because it is so pleasant for us to spring, but if you were to get a little deeper, and not to put your thinking into pride, pompousness, and completely unfounded confidence, but to engage in serious analyses, I would not arrange for so much for Ozd, because about two thousand decent left-wing voters voted over to Jobbik's candidate for mayor, who is truly capable, young and capable, but forget that there are a total difference of more than five thousand votes. They gave us about this, according to their calculations, we don't know exactly, but about 2,000 of the left-wing voters? What about the other 3,000? Index analyses and other analyses do not cover this. Among these, they may be disappointed with a great number, among them may be those who have never gone to vote before in their lives, for the first time they have been elected, because they have reached their threshold of stimuli by the disgrace that failed Fidesz leadership has tried to perform there. And we can still see from Mr. Fürjes' statements that they have not learned anything, because Fidesz should be on the road to Oz, led by the better mayor, by the majority of them, and only then can they support him. I would like to draw your attention in advance to the fact that we will not allow and will not tolerate the development of Esztergom syndrome in this settlement. We're not gonna let that happen? we too have learned a lot from politics, and we will be able to apply certain methods then? We will not allow the overwhelming majority of the people of Ozd to be ignored at this level. And you can also see that it is not good to mess with Hungarian voters because what, let's say, Ozdon happened for Jobbik, happened, say, in Salgótarján or Szeged for the benefit of the left, where it is easy to do otherwise? I'm not sure, but is it possible that otherwise? in order not to leave the Fidesz, or not to get Fidesz back so that Fidesz wouldn't win, otherwise, let's say, in the parliamentary elections, only the people voting for Jobbik voted for the Left, because they thought that there was a better chance of keeping the Fidesz out of power or knocking it out. I would accept the words of Mihály Balla regarding the county of Nógrád, if this had happened between 2010-14. Personally, I am a great believer, and I also have a strong emotional attachment to all kinds of historical justice, but it is very interesting that this kind of historical sense of justice did not take over Mihály Balla and the Fidesz team in Nógrád, say, between 2010-14, but only when they were executed by the left in Salgótarján. And why did you execute him there? Because? I've been to the county of Nógrád long enough? precisely because of their power arrogance, and because of the highly corruption-suspecting stories entitled "The 10 Steps" cost 8 million HUF; precisely because of this. And you, freshly after the results of an election in Ozd, do not understand not only the symbolicity of this, but also the terrible psychological effect of it, that in a less intense parliamentary individual district, in a parliamentary period election, an Ózdic right-wing success of this magnitude or just close to that difference can decide the fate of individual mandates. Is it also outrageous that in the capital you underestimate and underestimate the list representatives because you very soon forget that, say, in 1990 and 94 you didn't win an individual district? Orbán didn't, by the way? In 1998 József Torgyán and small farmers gave their government, in 2002 you didn't win the majority of the individual districts, and in 2006 they had a lot of national list and county list representatives. They begin to brag about it and always rub it in the noses of others when in 2010 and 14 you really took the vast majority of individual districts. Can they be less proud of 2014 because of an absolutely hacked election system? Think of the winning compensation, to which you owe six mandates? They wouldn't be anywhere near two thirds if they hadn't introduced the dictatorial rule that they envied or admired in Central Asia. If it were to happen with the opposite omen, you would, as usual, scream the loudest. 'Cause by the way, I could say with some evil, that you can just go on doing it, put in suggestions like this every week, don't listen to people's voices in Szeged, Salgótarján, Ozdon, Recsen, go on doing it. The longer they do it, the better it'll be for us, because the more popular we'll be. Because that's what you did, by the way, the more unpopular the left, the more your popularity grew. The only thing you do not perceive, my honourable Members, is that there are no more top-down attempts, no more peak conquests, and you have slowly moved down from the summit. There's no way up, it's just down. It is precisely that if they do not change the rules in May, then they will not become the majority in the capital in the autumn, this is once again a very sure and infallible sign of this. The fact that 36 percent vote for Lajos Bokros, a candidate on the left who is constantly struggling with each other, 36 percent vote, should be more than an emergency bell for you! [[Dr. András Schiffer: As far as right-wing candidate Lajos Bokros.]] Yes, as far as the candidate on the right is Lajos Bokros, tell me the others here; let's not get into this. But aren't you thinking of the underlying reason that there are fundamental behavioral problems, power arrogance; who is not a fidesz can't exist, is almost a complete person in this country? Because that's the spirit, ladies and gentlemen. They don't want to eliminate the underlying causes, they're trying to deal with phenomena, local phenomena and symptoms somehow, but they're also totally mistreating it because they're separated from reality, and they think, like all dictatorial powers in general, that it's going to last until the end of time. But by the way, I also suggest you end this cat business. Let's finish this cat trick, we don't have to do it here, we don't have to do it, we don't have to do it, Imre Vas doesn't have to try; let's state in the Fundamental Law that Viktor Orbán and István Tarlós don't have elections until the brain dies, they're the big bosses in the capital and in the country, so we don't have to choose a prime minister until then. Will the opposition withdraw from Parliament in 2018? I'm not saying this so that we can sit here for God knows how many years, so that I can even comment impartially? And then you don't have to do all these unnecessary tricks. Ready, there are no free elections, and until then, we consider the current state of affairs to be cemented. And before you misunderstand, please welcome István Tarlós and Viktor Orbán to the final frontier of human life for a very long time. I do not wish them any harm, I just wish them to change occupations, to find their place in the system, and not to be Prime Minister and not to be mayor. Would that be more honest if you said you wanted to introduce a total dictatorship? You don't have to do math with details, you don't have to, you don't have to. This simple sentence must be inserted into the Fundamental Law, this is from Friday to Monday, and I think, by the time the soup is mined on Sunday, the proposal is ready, it will be accepted in a week or two, and then we will not have to be tortured here, and the Secretary of State can rest much sooner. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-282	Congressman, I must inform you that human life is a completely different category outside and inside Parliament. I don't think it's within the walls of Parliament, I mean, to talk about the end of people's lives. Please consider this. Thank you. [[István Apáti: I considered it, that's why I said it.]] Congressman György Szilágyi applied for a two-minute speech.
u2014-11-10-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member in Father's office wanted a long life for the two politicians mentioned, and I meant it; I may have misunderstood. I didn't want to comment anymore, I swear, I'm only talking to him because I see him, and really, I don't want to deal with Imre Vas, I just see him laughing in food and say two-thirds, two-thirds. [[Dr. Vas Imre: I didn't say it once.]] Dear Imre Vas. I'm telling you now, and don't take it as a threat, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will do everything in its power to lose two thirds of them here with the Újpest interim election and the Veszprém interim election. We're gonna do everything we can for him. It's not that short a time, it's not that short a time. And imagine if you lose those two elections, you won't have two-thirds. This is what we are going to tell citizens every day that anyone who does not want two thirds of Fidesz, who wants normal law in this House, should not vote for Fidesz either in the Újpest interim election or in the Veszprém interim election, because then the system in which you have been sitting very comfortably has changed.
u2014-11-10-284	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Tamás László, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman. [[22.00]]
u2014-11-10-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Interesting words were said: saving the saving, emptiness, pacts, destruction, bankruptcy, arrogance, disintegration, panic-like rush, pack phenomena, existential inability and similar things. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What was in Rákospalota? ? Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Shut up!]] I think I'd like a little more restraint from you. [[István Apáti: This is true democracy!]] These comments, of course, require restraint for us as well, and sometimes it is very difficult to listen to the speeches in which they are very, very far from what they have said. [[István Apáti: We too, believe me.]] I just made it clear that there are 20 members of the Metropolitan Assembly with Fidesz members. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But how?]] including seventeen mayors, the mayor and two of them from a compensation list. For Jobbik...? Please, the rules of choice were the same for everyone, for everyone. [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. ? Dr. András Schiffer: Oh! ? István Apáti: I said you don't understand the point!]] Now, please, that's what people say and howl at, say, a piece of congressman on the compensation list. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why? Why? But why?]]
u2014-11-10-286	Congressman! I ask you to listen to the speaker.
u2014-11-10-287	I'm asking you to listen to me. I've listened patiently to all of this. [[István Apáti: Shouting is a parliamentary genre!]] Jobbik also has a representative on a compensation list. Why? Because they didn't get enough votes to get in. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You cheated the rules! ? Dr. András Schiffer: You fixed the rules!]] Please, if defeat like this means rigging for you, I think it's poor enough. [[István Apáti: You have caught the fly in Ozd! ? Dr. András Schiffer: New Palace was a defeat!]]
u2014-11-10-288	Gentlemen. Fellow Members! I'd like to ask you to suspend the dialogue. There will be opportunities.
u2014-11-10-289	I would be happy to talk to you about New Palace, where the situation is the following, it is worth comparing to the 2006 election: in 2006 the MSZP won by two thirds, in 2014 we brought the situation out halfway, we won the parliamentary election [[Dr. András Schiffer: What was in 2010?]] And we'll be represented by ten people in the district council. I think we have every chance of keeping control of the district in our hands. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's it! It's out of the bag!]] The four years that we've been doing, the four years that happened in the district, it's encouraging to a lot of people, and they voted to continue with it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who's the mayor?]] The mayor is László Hajdu, who has and will have relatively few licenses. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. ? Dr. András Schiffer: What about it? ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've told me a lot of things.]] Yes, thank you. Let me give you a little more thought on Oz's question. Ozden, as I see the election results, the council has eight fidesz, five right-handers and one MSZP-DK. I don't know how they're gonna be able to run this city with any big mayor's election win. Let me talk a little bit about veto. The question of veto... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Esztergom!]] There will be no Esztergom here, because you can make a controlled, functional settlement out of all of them, the XV. District and Ozd. Let me tell you a few thoughts about veto. They didn't read it carefully, and they didn't study the fact that mayors have veto rights in the municipal law. This has been extended to the Mayor, and I think there is nothing new in this amendment of the law that was not derived from previous decisions. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why not before October?]] Please, there's a time for everything...
u2014-11-10-290	Congressman Schiffer! You've had your chance to argue, now please be kind. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We didn't get a chance, they didn't answer!]]
u2014-11-10-291	All Members have the right to submit amendments to the law, so do it. I think we're showing restraint, and I'm asking you to do the same. Trust this law, trust the standing Capital Assembly, they will do theirs. There has been unprecedented development in Budapest over the past four years, the same will happen in the next five years. Trust him. Live well in Budapest! Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Ágnes Kunhalmi: Distribution of wealth! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And where are the substantive answers?]]
u2014-11-10-292	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The deadline for submitting amendments has expired. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. János Lázár, Lajos Szűcs, Pál Völner, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/1803. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr. Lajos Szűcs, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-293	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We have tabled a relatively short legislative amendment proposal with our fellow Members. The aim of the bill is the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. broadening the scope of data other than bank secrecy to ensure transparency in public matters. On the basis of the proposal, to the party which has drawn up a national list in the general election of Members of Parliament and who has also obtained the right to form a political group in Parliament? MFB Zrt. for the purchase of office property in order to ensure the party's operating conditions. the 2007 CVI on State Property. Law 68. In order to facilitate transparency in public matters, data on loans granted previously under the conditions laid down in Article 4 of this Regulation should not be considered as bank secrets. Therefore, the provisions on keeping bank secrets should not apply to these data. The 2007 Property Act gave parliamentary parties the opportunity to purchase operational real estate with a preferential development bank loan in addition to a state guarantee. SZDSZ took 415 million HUF from the MFB, but after it did not pay, the loan was cancelled in December 2010 and since March 2011 the financial institution has had enforcement rights over real estate collateral. The purpose of this amending proposal is to provide the broadest possible publicity on these issues. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-294	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mrs Lászlóné Németh, Secretary of State, if she wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-10-295	Mr. President. Congressman Lords! I would just like to add to Mr Szűcs's motion that, in recent years, there has been a significant increase in interest in these loans, which the Hungarian Development Bank has not provided or could not provide without the adoption of this amendment. I think so, huh? given that the government has committed itself to making the funding and financial affairs of the parties more transparent, we can further strengthen this if, in addition to the government's support, you will support and accept this proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-296	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-297	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Lajos Szűcs have said, is it a short technical amendment, since the purpose of this bill is to exclude from the general banking secrets loans which, under the law of 2007 adopted by Parliament? May I note what was discussed by the Hungarian Parliament at the time of the Gyurcsány government? the parties represented by Parliament at the time were given the opportunity to use loans to support their operation, to purchase offices and to build their technical infrastructure. [[22.10]] As the secretary of state has said, there has been an increasing interest in these loans over the past period, and since the SZDSZ, which was a parliamentary party at the time, has taken out nearly HUF 420 million of loans, which she has not paid back to this day, I think that this amendment will give us the opportunity to remove from the procedure of general banking secrecy in these cases these loan matters concerning party financing and, as Madam State Secretary said, to give the government a space for its commitment to use public funds and transparency in public matters. I think that there is nothing special about this bill, as my fellow Members can see, and it is quite clear and clear that there is nothing else you want to deal with except this one item. I do not think that parties have anything to hide on this matter either. I am very confident that the majority of Parliament will support this bill, thanks to which these credit agreements will be exempted from bank secrecy later, and that the Hungarian public will know whether the parties that have made use of this credit facility in the past have fulfilled the conditions for repayment of credit, and at the moment how they are doing with these loans and loan repayments, on the basis of the credit agreements concluded with the Hungarian Development Bank at the time. I am very confident, once again, that Parliament will support this bill by a large majority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-298	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to point out, first of all, that the MSZP supports all legislative proposals and initiatives aimed at increasing the transparency of national wealth management. The MSZP agrees with the aim of the timid initiative of the MEP János Lázár Lázár, thus promoting transparency in public affairs. However, there are several things that we do not understand about the bill that has been tabled. Why did MEP János Lázár submit an individual motion and not the government? Why did you have to narrow down the range of public interest data required by Magyar Development Bank Zrt. in July 2014 if you want to change that now? Why has the proposal become so timid, why does the author not really want to make public affairs transparent? On the first thing, I would like to say that it is not understandable why the government is not the author of the bill, why János Lázár presented this proposal as a Member of Parliament, because he is the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. exercise ownership rights above and could have submitted the proposal through the government. From that point of view, of course, it may be logical that, instead of the government, the Member of Parliament is the national, if the government is not committed to creating transparency in public matters, and the operation of the Orbán government so far can be accused of many things, but not of putting great emphasis on transparent operation. I would like to mention a few examples as a reminder. I am thinking of the E.ON case, secrecy, post-court data acquisition; the purchase of offshore gas by Hungarian Electricity Industries, as well as secrecy and litigation in the process; the amendment of the information law, making it difficult to request data; the abduction of the savings cooperative sector, the secrecy in this too; the traffikmutsi, where Lazarus was also the author of the bill, but the author of the bill, as known, was the head of one of the tobacco companies. The second issue I mentioned in this connection is why in July 2014 we had to narrow down the range of public interest data that could be requested from Magyar Development Bank Zrt. if they want to change it now. Fidesz introduced the provisions of the MFB on bank secrecy in the Act on Government Restructuring. The MSZP did not agree with this at the time, as it substantially weakened the transparency of public affairs, given the fact that it significantly reduced the availability of data of general interest. If these rules were to be changed now, John Lazarus would criticise the government's earlier proposal with this proposal. If so, we agree with this and even have further proposals. And this proposal is linked to the third thing: why has the proposal become so timid, why does the author not really want to make public affairs transparent? If the national Member of Parliament, János Lázár, really wants to promote the transparency of public affairs, as Minister of the Prime Minister's Office at MFB Zrt., which is governed by ownership rights, then not only documents relating to the purchase of party-holders, but other contracts of the MFB should be made available. In the absence of this, there can be no substantial progress towards ensuring transparency in public matters. As we have heard the government's representative say, there has been an increase in interest in bank loans for the purchase of non-partisans. I would like to confirm then that there is an increased interest in, for example, the $34 billion loan agreement granted to the Public Machine. I think that this is of public interest both in scale and in his strangeness. So let us ask why this bank secrecy solution is not extended to these credit agreements. I'm referring to the loan agreement of the U.S. jet for $34 billion. Am I referring to documents relating to the restructuring of the savings cooperative sector? Why doesn't János Lázár extend his proposal for transparency to these documents? Or the advisory contracts that we have not yet been able to understand. In fact, if János Lázár really wants to make public affairs transparent and has a great deal to do with civil society organisations, he could also address the transparency of the operation of the CF, for example. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP supports the creation of full transparency in the management of national assets in order to promote transparency in public affairs, and therefore MFB Zrt. It also aims to promote a fully transparent operation as regards the company belonging to the national assets. Will the MSZP therefore propose an amendment? I've already filed this today? to the bill, which, on the basis of all of this, aims to encourage the public and the members of the government so far to take bolder steps in broadening the content of the bill tabled by Parliamentary MEP János Lázár in order to achieve the transparent functioning of public affairs. Please support the amendment, in which case the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this proposal with a good heart. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2014-11-10-300	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-10-301	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to ask, and I would like to ask, if, say, you do not support these extensions, which we support, by the way, whether the Socialist Party will vote for you, or if it is just something that will help you to withdraw from not voting for this law. It was only a question, so I do not prejudicate, but it was only a question whether, if they did not accept their amendments, they would vote in favour of this law, because it might affect you as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Without exaggeration, I can say that the bill tabled by the Minister has symbolic significance and message value, not towards me, but towards the whole society, even if it is very late. On 31 August 2012, the President of the State Audit Office published an audit report on the control of the legality of the 2009-2010 management of the Hungarian Liberal Party, the Association of Free Democrats. From this report, it has become clear to everyone that the party's serious abuse of public funds has occurred, and even that there is little chance of a return on the damage incurred. The result of the problem is the Law on State Property, 2007 CVI. Law, was it the amendment of the so-called property law in November 2007, pursuant to which? Subpoena, to the party who has drawn up a national list in the general election of the Members of Parliament and who has also obtained the right to form a political group in Parliament, for the purchase of office property in order to ensure the conditions of the party's operation, Magyar Development Bank Zrt. lend money at the initiative of the Party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the time of lending, MFB, Hungarian Development Bank Private Limited Company, which was established in 1991. CHAPTER XI Since its establishment on the 27th of October, the Hungarian State has been exclusively owned by a credit institution, which has carried out contributing tasks. The loans granted on the basis of the above provisions of the Law on Property were found to be subject to the current budget. [[22.20]] The loan was therefore granted by a bank that was still in public ownership and allocated resources that were considered to be public funds. On the basis of the combined position of these two factors, any citizen would rightly consider that the placements of these loans were carried out in a transparent manner for all, while ensuring the greatest publicity. However, this was not the case. The Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, and after the 2010 change of power, the Orbán government also cowardlyly tried to hide behind bank secrets and protect the dirty business of the so-called system-shifting parties. This is also an elemental part of the failure to account, with which you are indebted to society to this day. The volume of transactions is sufficiently felt by only one figure: the Federation of Free Democrats bought twenty real estates from the loans in question in a short time, in some of these cases there have been cases? The SAO's cautious way of putting it? the use of real estate for party purposes could not be justified, despite the fact that, as mentioned above, the loan was granted solely for the purchase of office property in order to ensure the party's operating conditions. To mention just one example: SZDSZ bought two offices at the time in a settlement where there was no party organization at all. So he bought property for the party's operation in a settlement where they didn't have a basic organization. By the way, we have repeatedly drawn the government's attention to this, even when Madam Secretary of State was still managing the relevant wallet as a minister. Of course, neither the twenty properties nor the purpose of the use were public until the State Audit Office published its ominous report. We also know from this report that the MFB terminated the loan agreement on 28 December 2010, as the party has not fulfilled its obligations to pay capital and interest since 15 July 2009. We are all witnesses of how soon and how humiliating enforcement procedures will be exposed to if a countryman who has come to an unfortunate fate can't pay his loans. The SZDSZ also seems to have enjoyed a privileged position in this area, as the state-owned bank has waited nearly a year and a half, and I stress that not with the implementation, but with the termination of the credit agreement at all. He resigned after a year and a half. What is much more serious, however, is that it has been another four years since then, and we have no information about the measures taken by the public asset manager after the contract was terminated, after the enforcement law was opened, in order to recover its debts. However, it should be added that the delay has led to and leads to escalation of the situation in the specific case to date. In addition, both the party leaders and the bodies and persons entitled to act on behalf of state property had to know this precisely. What proves this more than the fact that the interest debt after the debt in 2011 had already reached 58 million 274 thousand forints by the end of 2011. The only thing on the cake is that the party outside the state, also due to real estate matters, is VII, VIII. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The district authorities also owed 63 million 824 thousand forints on 31 December 2010 and their total debt was approximately 770 million forints at the end of 2011. It is clear that the total debt increased year after year, until the National Council of the SZDSZ decided on 8 June 2013 to initiate the dissolution of itself in the prosecutor's office. It's an elegant solution, isn't it? That's how you see it, and from then on, it's like it wasn't even a debt. Although I had only a fraction of the information about the case compared to the manager of the state's assets, I was the one who made the criminal complaint. Neither the bank nor the wallet felt this step was important. In some ways, this can be felt, since their responsibility in this matter is inevitable, but cannot be delayed. This can also be seen from the fact that, according to my report, more than three years have now been under investigation because of the criminal suspicion of fiscal fraud, the attempt to withdraw the cover of debt, and the misrepresentation of the crime. The fact that while the above sets of figures came to our attention from a public, accessible report, my questions concerning the same subject were rejected on several occasions by the task and competent wallet, even under the leadership of the Secretary of State, when he was still a minister, and by the way, János Lázár refused to do so once. So the question arises: how is it possible that the current portfolio of supervisors of the Hungarian Development Bank to ask me what is the exact amount of the debt to free democrats, i.e. the combined debt of capital and interest? So I asked you a very complicated question? The answer is that it's a bank secret. However, the SAO recorded exactly the same data in its report as at the end of 2011. One organ has a bank secret that the other doesn't? It's kind of weird, in my opinion. Why is it not possible to know whether any of the properties in question, which were also used as collateral for the loan contract, have been disposed of in the meantime, when, according to the SAO's report two years ago, the party's representative made a written statement that an oral or written offer had been received to five of the seven properties in Budapest, which the MFB was notified of? Could the MFB have contributed to the sale, thereby reducing the likely insufficient collateral coverage? Why is it a bank secret as to what acts the bank has carried out under the opened enforcement law in order to return on the loan transferred? I must say that Minister János Lázár made a very gallant offer here a few weeks ago in front of my fellow Members at Parliament's plenary when he indicated it? I suppose, given all the written questions and the interpellation I've submitted to you on this matter and told you? To give me access to the case files. Obviously, I do not have to say that I was very pleased to see the opportunity offered, but there could not have been an insight after the preliminary negotiations. I went to the meeting at the scheduled time, but the representatives of the bank wanted me to make a statement which contradicted what I had said from the outset in view of its close relationship with public money. The declaration stated that I, György Szilágyi, declare that I am aware of the fact that the documents provided for me in connection with the loan and loan to the Association of Free Democrats constitute bank and business secrets. The whole point of the case is that these data cannot be classified as bank or business secrets. What I welcome is that you are trying to resolve this seemingly existing dispute. I stress that the dispute not only between me and you, but also seems to exist between the State Audit Office and you. I therefore think that we are doing the right thing, that the proposal serves a good purpose, but that it is very late in its timing. Erik Bánki said there was nothing special about this bill. Yes, there is. One thing: you're two years late, at least. So this is the only special thing in it that should have been done much sooner. Please allow me to remind you that on 7 January this year, I submitted to President Gábor Vona a bill on the legal consequences of failing to repay public funds to parties, the essence of which was that the party leaders should also be liable with their private assets for the party's debts arising from their decision, and what was even more important was that there was no one who could be elected to be responsible for non-payment and party debt as senior officials of the party. Of course, I was not surprised that the representatives of the Socialist Party rejected the series of articles, as it is now well known that the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party, as the successor to the MSZMP, has also been declared a billion-dollar debt. [[22.30]] I would like to comment here for a sentence on the point that the bill before us will not only open room for full accountability of the SZDSZ, but also for full accountability of the MSZP. And while I hope that the competent offices will do their job more thoroughly in this case than they did in the SZDSZ, if they do not, I can assure you that Jobbik will also be at the forefront in this respect. However, the exclusion from public life of those who tap into public wealth still awaits. In the present case, I should draw your attention to the fact that, following the legislative amendment in November 2007, which allowed the admission of real estate loans presented, there were three presidents of the SZDSZ in total. One was called János Kóka, and the other was called Gábor Fodor, and the third was called Attila Retkes. One of these, János Kóka, is carrying a diplomatic passport in the world, courtesy of you. Don't worry, André Goodfriend will never bring him up to speed with an American ban, and he won't have to worry about it. The other one is called Gábor Fodor, who elegantly dusted himself and the SZDSZ himself, which was also the founder of earlier, and is now enjoying the hospitality of the Hungarian Liberal Party here in Parliament. That's not just for us, but believe me, it's just as unacceptable for your voters. Of course, he is not here at the trial because he could not have known that this law would, let's say, affect him at some level. To sum up, therefore, we support the proposal, because, as we know, taking the first step is always the most difficult. We appreciate that you are now taking this long-awaited step, if even a little timidly, but you will. So we support that. However, you should know that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary expects a continuation, decisive action, the search for and accountability of those responsible. We can assure you that on this path you can count on us for anything, we will give you support for everything that will help protect and recover public wealth, including the recovery of stolen party property. At the same time, on the basis of our current persistent efforts, they must also conclude that, if they do not give, they would dance back, yet they would miscopy, we will not allow it, and we will force the truth that has been longing for all Hungarians, to be accounted for. Thank you very much for listening, and the Jobbik Hungary Movement will fully support this law in the vote. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-302	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-10-303	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is always surprising and generally a little suspicious when Fidesz takes steps to increase the transparency of public funds. Now it seems that's what the majority of governments are up to. János Lázár's amendment of the law is about certain loan agreements of the state-owned Hungarian Development Bank being excluded from the scope of bank secrets. In English, you can get to know their content. It would be about contracts where this state bank loaned to parties for the purpose of buying a headquarters. The background to this unexpected, first-reading, even second-reading initiative is evident from the press. There was a liberal party here who said he couldn't account for the money, which means he didn't pay back the loan from the tax dollars. Annex IX is amended as follows: D.A.'s office is also investigating the case. If you're trying to relive this case or perhaps to expose other parties' involvement with a shocking effect, go ahead and do it. But this proposal goes beyond itself, because if we stop and think for just one minute, the first question is the same for all taxpayers. How can any credit, transaction, or support that the Hungarian State-owned MFB provides be bank secrets? I pay my taxes, and then they hide with bank secrets what they're gonna do with the money that neither politicians nor bankers worked for. How's that? And the Hungarian Development Bank is not the only such actor that politics has tried to remove from the public's control in recent cycles. The same could be said about Eximbank or the export credit insurance Mehibet. From the beginning of the LMP, we voted in favour of full transparency. If the levels of withdrawals and taxes in Hungary are already as high as they are, then the government of the time has a duty to account for the fate of each forint. If society does not know in what financial machinations leaders use people's money, there can be no public confidence, corruption will never be reduced. And most importantly, there can be no meaningful debate on economic issues, such as what they provide and what kind of support they provide to public financial institutions. Therefore, we in the LMP support the amendment of the law, but we can't stress it enough, that's not enough. We want everything, i.e. all state money flows, transactions, guarantees, and the rest, to be public at the latest after three years. And until then, only in the most justified cases can the public be limited. Under the cover of their current lack of transparency, the aforementioned organisations provide thousands of billion forints of credit lines per year. We spend 50-80 billion forints per year on state commitments. The least they can do is give us a glimpse into their operation. Only the power of the public can guarantee fair operation and the reduction of corruption. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-304	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Lajos Szűcs, as rapporteur, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-305	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It was refreshing to listen to statements in support of this debate. It was even more interesting to listen to the fact that, when the bill is primarily about creating clearer, more transparent relations with parliamentary parties by reducing bank secrecy, one opposition party immediately started to cut with companies. I cannot tell you, Mr Congressman, but in a situation where anyone takes credit from a bank and repays it fairly, what information should be made public about it. I think the bank secret is completely covered. I'm saying this without a company name, of course. And in the sentences that my fellow Members have written here, I believe that the story that Mr Szilágyi remembered is not the only one, and he has told the chronology of this story. I want to remind you of one thing. On 27 August 2013, Mr György Balla, representative of Fidesz, raised the same question before an agenda in Parliament. I think, even if it is a little slower, as Mr Szilágyi said, but Parliament has come to the point of negotiating this issue as an individual amendment. I hope that Parliament will support this proposal, and then, we hope, we will be able to take measures with which we stand before our constituents. Thank you for your support, Mr President.
u2014-11-10-306	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the amended Convention of the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation will follow until closure. The submission is T/1856. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[22.40]]
u2014-11-10-307	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Telecommunications using satellites is now part of our daily lives. In addition to satellite positioning systems, satellite broadcasting, satellite broadcasting and reception are the most common and well-known services in this area. Satellite broadcasting enables high-quality large-area geographical coverage without the need to build physical infrastructure across the area in question. Therefore, satellite broadcasting does not stop at and cross national borders. Satellite telecommunications technology therefore plays a particularly important role in the mediation, care, preservation of Hungarian cultural values and, of course, in the survival of Hungarian culture for our countrymen living beyond the borders. The satellite transmission of the public media allows these values to reach state borders, geographical distances, and provide up-to-date information about the mother country, as well as, in this sense, about Hungarians and Hungarian communities living outside the mother country. For the full coverage of public radio and television broadcasts, satellite broadcasting is the only realistic option, with all other solutions the public media would be available to Hungarians across borders only in areas close to the border. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The bill before you, therefore, plays an important role in the implementation of what we have just said. As a reminder to all of us, the Western European countries decided at the end of the 1970s to establish the so-called European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation, Eutelsat, for the international coordination of space communication tasks. The organisation shall ensure the satellite coverage of all Member States by means of its own satellites and shall also serve the needs of the Member States in relation to satellite services, in accordance with the principle of equal treatment, both for the service and for its remuneration. The Central and Eastern European countries joined the organization in the 1990s, so as a reminder, Hungary became a member in 1993. In 1999, the activity of the telecommunications organisation was put on a commercial basis, and the amended Convention also entered into force on 28 November 2002 with regard to Hungary. In the context of this amendment, the organisation later adopted a number of new legislation. Although most of these technical amendments were immediately binding on the Member States, they should be published subsequently. The present proposal is therefore aimed at publishing the amended Eutelsat Convention in order to comply with these technical administrative requirements. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By adopting this law, in addition to fulfilling our international obligations, we will also help small and medium-sized enterprises to make better use of their available capacities and opportunities. CHAPTER XXI Taking advantage of the technological opportunities of the century, it will be available to the Hungarian population and the Hungarians across the border, ensuring that Hungarian public service channels and programmes can be reached in good quality, which was previously the goal. Obviously, we can confirm this with our current decision, thus contributing to relations with Hungarians across the border, to the strengthening of Hungarian consciousness, to the strengthening of Hungarian language and to the mediation of national cultural values. In view of all of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the bill before us, which is T/1856, be made. We've filed a bill, so let's accept it here at the National Assembly. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-308	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-10-309	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is about the publication of the amended Convention of the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation. Obviously, the transfer of European Union legislation into Hungarian legislation, which is a mandatory task for Hungary as a member country of the European Union. Allow me, as a former MEP, to say a few words about the importance of this Convention. As Minister of State said, the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation, i.e. Eutelsat, was established in 1977 through 17 European Member States, in order to strengthen professional relations in the field of satellite communications, thus strengthening economic cooperation between Member States in this area. The organisation currently has 49 members, including Hungary, which joined this cooperation programme in 1993. European States signatory to the Convention are committed to closer cooperation in the field of satellite communications, thereby contributing significantly to the deepening of economic relations. Improving cross-border audiovisual services will benefit the pan-European information society. The continental coverage provided by the satellite system will increase the efficiency of Member States' telecommunications services, thereby providing a more efficient and efficient service for EU citizens. Under the Convention, users should provide services on a fair basis, subject to trade flexibility and in compliance with the relevant legislation. In particular, due to the reduction of administrative burdens, the contract had to be amended. The amended Convention was approved by Eutelsat at the May 1999 General Meeting, which resulted in the entry into force on 28 November 2002 of the regulation that is still in force as a result of EU legislation. As I said at the beginning of my speech, Hungary's transfer of this convention to the Hungarian legal order is practically an obligation that we must support as a Member State of the European Union. I think that we are talking about a proposal or a convention in this case that is in the interest of all European Union citizens, including Hungarian citizens. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-10-310	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-10-311	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I'll be very brief. I can agree with what has been said before. Of course, this is an initiative to support. The question is why Hungary has not ratified it since 28 November 2002. The representative of the government present may or may not be able to respond to this, because obviously we are talking about such a long period of time when this proposal has been in place for 12 years, or has entered into force in some way, but the ratification has been cancelled, so Parliament has not confirmed this, although its signature has been done. Thus, it was not properly proclaimed in the internal legal order. There may have been an international anti-corruption treaty, which is still ahead of us, and it would also be good to keep skeletons like this from falling out of the bushes or the closet. I don't know how many more international treaties we've signed over the last decades or years, but Parliament hasn't confirmed that. This also raises a public-law problem as to whose responsibility this is, or in fact, that it has not entered into force in an appropriate way, but it is being applied, so it is a rather strange legal situation. The point is that I am asking the Secretary of State to look at the stocks that may be in place, and that is what we will be able to do in the future. There should not be such international conventions extending beyond ten years, which must be brought before the Parliament. But of course, if this has happened, and this has not happened since 2002, then, although now, we can support the proposal. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-10-312	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Árpád Velez, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP, who will give his speech as a speaker in a normal time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There is now a bill before this House to announce the amended Convention of the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation. This is a convention aimed specifically at deepening professional cooperation in the field of telecommunications, which should apply from 2 July 2001. [[22.50]] The amended Convention entered into force on 28 November 2002, as has been said. That is, Hungary has been bound by this convention for 12 years from an international legal point of view, but Hungary has not yet ratified it. This is the internal legal step that the Parliament is now taking. The Parties shall establish the European Satellite Telecommunications Organisation on the basis of this Convention. The aim of this organisation is to implement the principles set out in the Convention, such as compliance with public service and universal service obligations, pan-European coverage provided by the satellite system, non-discrimination and fair competition. Dear House, In the hope that Hungary can comply with these principles in its internal legislation, we support the publication of the Convention. Please allow me to finally quote Article 11 of the Convention. The Parties shall exercise or fulfil their rights and obligations under the Convention in full compliance with the principles and provisions of the Convention, in order to facilitate them. This is what I wish the Hungarian government. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-10-314	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Secretary Ákos Kara if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-10-315	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If we have already spoken with exemplary speed in Parliament on this important issue, at least in this area, I would like to give a summary reply in short. First of all, I thank you very much for your supporting contributions; secondly, for those who have rightly urged and mentioned that a long time has passed since this came before us, it is obviously an answer to them that we will now decide and vote on this in the coming short time. Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs may continue the detailed debate even before the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-10-316	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Speaking after today's agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for these statistics, which were certainly not produced by the Orbán government. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-10-317	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since Fidesz came to power, all you can hear from the government side is the already sugar syruped beauty and good for life and politics. In recent campaign months, we have barely been able to follow how much better we have done, how livable and beautiful it has been for years, not only for Budapest, but for the whole country. The fact that something is not quite right in Hungary is confirmed by the mass emigration of skilled workers, well-trained young people, families, foreign policy conflicts, international surveys. It is certainly a bad news for the government that the economic and employment statistics produced by our country will be increasingly difficult to improve, and this is not just due to their reckless economic and tax policies. You are looking for improving or even soaring economic indicators, but do not acknowledge that healthy economic indicators can only be produced by a healthy society. From a health point of view, well-being in Hungary is far below the levels typical of OECD states. Out of the indicators of the welfare level of an OECD survey based on the 2013 survey, which maps 34 countries, Hungary has become the worst in indicators measuring the health situation. We die much earlier than our peers in European or similar countries; on a scale of 1-10, the health status of Hungarians was 0.4 points, i.e. this value is extremely low, and we can also say, as an illustration, that the lowest score is lower than Slovakia, since they reached 1.3 points. The region of Hungary is also a very tragic picture: Central Hungary is the healthiest region in Hungary, reaching 2 out of the 10 points that can be reached. With this result, only 15 percent of the 362 OECD regions tested belong to the lower 15 percent. The worst is by 0 points in particular, with an unappreciable performance, the regions of North Hungary, which places the region in the last place of all OECD regions under investigation. The figures show not only a general bad picture of the health status of Hungarian people, but also the fact that the country currently has two large categories of healthcare per region, bad and worse. But in order to be the list leader in something after the many last rankings, Hungary is the world leader in the occurrence of malignant oral tumors, according to the World Health Organization survey, and the highest mortality rate of acute myocardial infarction in Hungary within 30 days is the highest in Europe. So I ask what the government intends to do to ensure that the country, or if you prefer it, improves the state of health of the nation. But even if you look at the EU level, Hungarian health care is not better. An EU study entitled Social justice in the European Union, which measured social lag in the European Union, also painted a devastating picture of the country through a summary of a German think tank. There has been a steady deterioration in the field of health assessment since 2008 and the previous lag indicator has continued to fall to Hungary, which has been a serious decline in the EU as well. It shows that Hungary is barely ahead of Romania, Bulgaria, in the area of infant mortality. In Hungary, the average of healthy years is 59.9 years, while the EU average is 62 years, but in the Czech Republic it is 63 years. Overall, Hungary finished 25 out of the 28 states in this area. The statistics mentioned above sound like dry figures, but the context behind them shows that the Hungarian public health and social status is far from what the Hungarian people deserve. However, this can be changed in one way or another, by putting the public health system in a position, first and foremost by setting public health objectives and identifying the resources, means and matching them to the needs. So the question arises when we perceive the government's inactivity in this area: perhaps the problem with these statistics is that you did not forge them as employment or economic growth statistics? By the way, we know you think everything's nice and good. Or didn't you? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-318	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, also asked for an after-the-date speech, or "The Population Disaster of Somogy County IV." I give you the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-10-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the fourth time in my post-meeting speeches, I can discuss the shocking population disaster of Somogy County, the issue that, in view of the data in Somogy County, if we look at this and derived data on the increasing demographic potential of Roma in Somogy County, then we would have a much more tragic color. If we could even look at the issue in this way, as the combined unemployment or educational data in the county do not say much about the real situation of Roma, this could be repeated in relation to the employment and school situation in the context of demography. It would be entirely right to follow this logic if the very different statistical indicators of the majority and the minority were to be separated from each other even when examining the demographic issue. Sadly, however, it can be predicted exactly how much this will break the guarantee among the blindfolded Polarists or even the extreme liberals. However, it must be said that a series of well documented sociological surveys, such as the 2003 study of István Kemény and his fellow researchers, and everyday experience, prove that there is a very different demographic process than in the case of the majority nation. In other words, if the data we have discussed in the past were already extremely bad somogyi data, without the negative data of the Gypsy population here in the positive direction, then the image obtained would show a much more mournful outcome. [[23.00]] If we want to work with adequate data, then we also need to divide the statistics into two parts in this area, although it will be natural for those who stick their heads in the sand to receive the racist indicator, who, despite their good intentions, even dare to raise this question. However, we have an inalienable right to be aware of real trends and to ask our questions without stigmatizing, racist accusations and to express our concerns about the fate of our nation. While, on average, in a Hungarian family, however strange this statistical average should sound? Only 0.8 children are born, this indicator is 3.1 children per family within Gypsy, and while an average Hungarian woman is 28 years old, an average Roma woman is 19-20 years old. This results in six times the fertility ratio between Hungarians and Gypsies on a pro rata basis. When examining the issue, we cannot sweep under the carpet the very complex social problems arising from Gypsy-Hungarian co-existence, especially in villages. According to the results of the 2011 census, 16,794 people in Somogy County claimed to be Roma, whereas at the 2013 general meeting on 22 February, the president of the General Assembly also talked about a population of around 55,000. Most of this somogyi gypsy population of about 55,000 people lives in a village, but not in a peasant lifestyle, because according to the census, only 26 percent live in Kaposvár or the other 15 settlements of the county, but almost three quarters live in villages. In reality, this means that of Somogy's 166 thousand urban population, only 14 thousand, so 8.5% of the population of Gypsies, but the population of 150 thousand inhabitants of the settlements can be estimated to be about 40,000, representing more than a quarter of the population in the village, to exactly 26 percent of the population. While the demographic indicators of the Roma population are undoubtedly showing an increase in the majority of poverty, the rural Hungarian population is ageing, its vitality, production and self-defense is decreasing due to its barely fertile demographic deficit; the proportion of Roma population is gradually increasing in parallel with the population agony of the Hungarian population, and this will have serious cultural, economic and social consequences. The crashing pension system leads to even more poverty. Due to the sluggish state aid, public security is even lessened. The lack of qualified labour will become urgent and capital will flee Somogy at increased speed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There will also be mass migration towards Western countries and, of course, there will be a greater share of trained Gypsies, but next time. Thank you for your patience and your honor. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-320	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Member László Kiss, MSZP Group also applied for a post- Agenda address: . The rest is twice annoyed by Mr I. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. district... [[For signal:]] Mr László Kiss's speech was withdrawn. However, after the agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has also applied. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-10-321	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to join the solo in front of me. This is not the first time I have spoken about what is happening in Hungary in relation to emigration. I would like to refer to a weekend article, which summarized very nicely what the three points that led to leaving Hungary today with a mass of young people. In 2010, Fidesz did not visit a country of one million public workers, or, I might say, serfs and slaves, but tried to make Hungarian voters believe that it was creating a well-functioning, prosperous economy in Hungary, and so much more jobs, essentially one million new jobs, were visited by Viktor Orbán. He promised Hungarians decent jobs that would pay well. We see it today, and it has been said so many times in this House today that Viktor Orbán has also lied about it. Today we find that new jobs are a public service for the Hungarian people. We could also say that the next budget includes no more aid, just people in community service. It should be said here that the wages of public workers have been said many times in recent years, that representatives in the benches of Fidesz-KDNP have said that they can live from 47,000 forints in Hungary today. Compared to this, the minimum wage only slightly improves the situation. The gross amount is 100 thousand forints, the net amount of which is taken home by a minimum wage is 66 thousand forints, and we know very well that today the established minimum living is about 83-87,000 forints per person. Now compared to this, the wages of public workers, this salary of 47,000 forints or 50,000 forints only saves workers from starving to death. We could say that in the application of public workers, the institutional system itself is at the forefront, because we often experience that the institutions are using it, and now they are sending their employees to cut the budget, because the government of Orbán cuts the budget year after year, replacing its employees with public workers. The next thing you know, he's trying to weaken this system, it's destroying the education system. It wasn't enough that he delivered the school commitment to 16 years of age, put these young people on the street, that this government is already trying to limit the conditions for access to high school, and that he is essentially trying to cut the amount for vocational secondary schools and high schools by 24 percent next year. Thirdly, the Orbán government has created a situation with public work, promised jobs and the destruction of the education system that now officially, what the government confesses, 350 thousand Hungarians working abroad are held accountable by the HCSO. At times, Matolcsy admitted that yes, more than half a million Hungarians work abroad. Most of these Hungarians working abroad do not wish to come home today. Which is a very brutal fact, is it now more than 50 percent of people under the age of 30? Now you're approaching 60 percent? wishes to leave this country and I have said several times in my speech that we are not paying attention to the fact that, after young people, secondary migration has started. Now there are records that after parents, grandparents leave the country. Why did this happen again? These young people are going to start a family abroad, have children there, not in this country, but abroad, and from now on they are going to call on their parents to help them. There has been a very dangerous process in Hungary, and there will be insurmountable consequences, because if parents leave after these young people, who will be eliminated. We have not received an answer from the government for years, nor have we seen it in the budget for next year at all. We'll be a country of public workers. It's outrageous, and I think it's unacceptable. With all the power against this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have to fight. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-10-322	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Árpád Velez, Member of the European Parliament, spoke after the agenda, MSZP:, Freeze Heating Upgrading. You have the floor.
u2014-11-10-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The incompetence of the Fidesz government, the incompetence of friends and business partners? which focuses only on the possibility of pumping money? It has brought new results, which, unfortunately, puts the needy back in a difficult position. The title of my speech after the agenda was frozen, not by accident: there is no other explanation for the fact that a large political and media-promotion project for the modernisation of heating is already collapsing and freezing at zero o'clock. The case isn't unique. If you remember, the same thing happened at the start of the e-toll, then this was explained by an overloaded attack, which, by the way, has not been verified since then. [[23.10]] Now, however, there was no mention of an attack on the IT system, although often government errors are preferred as attacks. The reason for the system's freezing is the overload, according to the announcements. I do not wish to go into the fact that at midnight thousands of people are trying to submit their applications at the same time, but if that is the case, then a system prepared for this must bear this burden. Dear House, I ask why, in accordance with the original invitation to tender, the application was made through the customer portal system of the Hungarian government portal, which would have been able to handle a large number of cases at the same time. There is only one reason for this: it would have been too cheap, so less money could have been taken out of the system. The IT programme for receiving and processing application forms is not a difficult task. Where appropriate, the only difficulty could be the large number of applications received at the same time. This would have been possible through the introduction of the infrastructure already available for the customer gate system, or through the use of existing tools. It seems that they have chosen a third way, which, in practice, was proven to have been a mistake at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, Such a failure would not apply to a qualified, tested, quality-quality IT system. That is why many questions arise. For example, whether the system has been checked, tested for all professional aspects before being put into service, or whether it meets the safety conditions laid down in the legislation, a system for the reception, transmission and processing of personal data including personal data has been established. And most importantly, when can applicants use the system that works? Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the post- Agenda speech, these are only rhetorical questions, but this does not mean that we do not require real answers to these questions within the framework of other parliamentary genres. We are once again faced with serious irresponsibleness and omissions, which we cannot leave without saying, today or tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-10-324	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Márta Demeter, MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title of Unortodox Policy. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-10-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We see that the government's unorthodox policy has been going on for years, and I would like to focus specifically on foreign issues, and I would like to highlight one of Viktor Orbán's recent interviews, where he said that we are taking the criticism of the United States very seriously, and we are examining all the data that he has made available to us about the cases. The Prime Minister is very optimistic when he says they're looking at all the data. Otherwise, we do not see this at the moment, and we do not feel any effect on it. His enthusiasm, I think, seems to be stopping at the level of words. It is not so for Ildikó Vida, who, by the way, initiates his own investigation in the NAV and against himself, which, I think, might even be said to be funny, if it were not a serious matter, which, by the way, could determine the judgement of Hungary and the Hungarian government for years. Speaking of corruption and affected government officials in corruption cases, according to the information so far, it is important to mention how often Viktor Orbán refers to how good the Slovak-Hungarian relationship is. I think you're absolutely right about that. In such a friendly relationship, you could really call Prime Minister Robert Fico and ask him for advice. We have seen in recent weeks that even the Prime Minister has resigned ministers in Slovakia to the slightest suspicion of corruption. I think that Ildikó Vida's authority should be revoked, that he should be relieved immediately, and I think that Mihály Varga should also be dismissed by the Prime Minister. Obviously, the Prime Minister could resign, but I think we could be satisfied with the first two steps. Orbán said something else. In an article yesterday, we read in an interview that there is a serious spiritual crisis in Europe. I doubt there is a spiritual crisis in Europe in view of the government's actions. His statement is justified by the fact that Europe spends more than strength on social expenditure, and its share in the world economy is decreasing, but we still believe that Europe has the greatest dynamics. Speaking of social expenditure, it is the Prime Minister who, by the way, is causing a social disaster in Hungary with so far's policy, that sees next year's budget. So I think that you could set an example for European social expenditure. We have also seen signals from the German Minister of State, who also criticized the government's actions. I also consider it unparalleled that the U.S. agent would be summoned to the National Security Committee by the Fidesz Members without taking any steps to ensure that the government, which, by the way, has the key to the solution and could clarify these matters, actually does so and launch investigations. It is a huge problem that we are constantly being distracted, and it is sad to see that the current Prime Minister has been throwing away the same values in recent years, and unfortunately, even during the first Orbán government, these efforts that he was fighting for during the regime change. So you must acknowledge to Viktor Orbán that Hungary is not a great power. We need to see ourselves realisticly, we have realisticly very good opportunities, with a balanced, stable policy and foreign policy, we are able to highlight the benefits of our country, and it is possible to pursue a policy with which we can be reliable and proud Hungarians. There's one more thing the Prime Minister keeps twisting. The fact is that he always feels that Hungarian people are being attacked from the outside, from the inside. No, they're not attacking the Hungarian people! The Hungarian government follows a very wrong policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would be good for Viktor Orbán to understand that he is not Hungary, and the Hungarian people are not equal to Viktor Orbán's actions. Thank you.
u2014-11-10-326	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Representative Zoltán Magyar applied for a post-scheduled speech: the unlimited hunger of ministers ends the prestige of Hungarian wine returning? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-11-10-327	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, According to the news, Hungarian wine and its government management cause serious internal struggles within the government. One of the first tangible evidence of this was that the first meeting of the Economic Commission's sub-committee on wine and gastronomy was held the other day, led by Minister Zsolt Tiffán, who, oddly, led the wine and wine subcommittee in the previous parliamentary term in the Committee on Agriculture, let's face it, with little success. All we need to think about is how much of a clown was that hill-municipal law that came here more than once before the National Assembly. I think it was pathetic and disappointing that a piece of legislation - not just the mountain village, but many others? how sloppy and without questioning the opinion of the profession you can bring to this House. Then, of course, the exercise sooner or later? I'm afraid it'll be sooner or later? You're going to prove to me that you should have listened to the profession. [[23.20]] But let's get back to today's topic. Even if I now accept in good faith that the reason for parallelism is that the government takes the future of Hungarian wine seriously, it still raises questions about whether it is possible to imagine a unified professional control, since at government level several organisations think that it is precisely the right person to be responsible for the wine. There are only a few at the listing level: for example, the Agricultural Marketing Centre, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture, the National Council of Mountains, and, as I mentioned earlier, there are also two sub-committees operating under the two parliamentary committees. Moreover, the fate of the AMC is still uncertain after the change of leadership, according to our information, it is still in serious struggles, not even to know exactly which wallet will receive it. It is also due to the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade refuses to communicate in the wine sector with the agricultural portfolio which controls the winery sector. It is believed that this approach is also based on the fact that fishing in confusion is more favourable to certain governmental operators than to professional management, as this creates a better situation for them, and this fragmentation certainly strengthens their situation. However, it would be incomprehensible to me if the FM in charge of professional management was not given back the full view of the wine. It is feared that the Hungarian wine will be the real loser as a result of internal violence, and through this the Hungarian vineyards and winemakers who have created the rising success of the past period. Due to the fragmented conditions, wine and its marketing are often not for those who know not only the producer, but also the product and its market, have years of commercial data, see export market movements, have credible and up-to-date data on the wine sector. Today, the situation is that long-term planning is overwritten by which minister's friends' wine should be run with public money. And I will be least reassured that this will be covered by the fact that it will be better for Hungarian wine, because the practice shows that the future of Hungarian wine should be improved, not in the way you imagined it to be. For example, we do not see the strategy that aims to show us how we are going to achieve that foreign tourists may organise their stay around Hungarian wine in bulk, because, for example, this is a picture that can be outlined, well-imagined, rather than when they have such a minimum production area? at least have a minimum production area worldwide? the country stands in the direction that it will be able to supply large international markets with wine. When will the government try to integrate all actors instead of internal sharing and looting? But there are other questions. When will they work to break down these intersecting parallels, systems that do not strengthen and support each other, but often work specifically against each other? 2014 Is it really possible in Hungary to sacrifice the reputation of Hungarian wine in return because of the self-interest of the government? You play easily with Hungarian wine and the players in the sector. You don't have any concerns, do you? respect for the exception? It was not your sweat, nor your bitter work that made Hungarian wine great. I also ask the Hungarian Government to put aside its internal battles, to think responsibly, because the future of Hungarian wine is also an important issue from a national strategic point of view. Don't ruin the scene of your daily grooming. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-10-328	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 23:23 p.m.]]
