u2014-06-11-0	Good morning. Dear Parliament, Welcome to Parliament and welcome to everyone who monitors our work. The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be present at the meeting to help me. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Dear Parliament, János Hargitai, Member, KDNP, spoke today before the agenda: "Improving economic results in Hungary, increasing recognition abroad. " Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-11-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lords of the Minister, Dear Parliament, I think it is worth speaking on this subject, because from abroad in previous years we have received a strong criticism of the evaluation of the Hungarian economy, in the past period, as if the trend had changed. I will address the comments of investors analysts in London, but first I will talk about the IMF's assessment of the country and perhaps the successful issuances of sovereign debt by the Hungarian government in recent years. But before I turn to these questions, in order to be able to enjoy foreign evaluations and to see their meaning, it is advisable to look back at the period in which we are going through, what we have had to produce over the past four years. The second Orbán government was forced to take over and manage the tragic legacy of 2002 and 2010. As a reminder, the government deficit was huge every year, and from this great deficit the tragic debt followed in law, among the countries of Central and Eastern Europe - they are our real competitors - in Hungary the debt was the largest, which went above 85% of GDP. High unemployment, higher unemployment than in the case of our competitors, very few contributors, which was a particular problem, let's say, regarding the operation of the pension system, high inflation, huge basic interest rates, which made our economy uncompetitive. We have been ashamed of the excessive deficit procedure since we joined the European Union, and during the period of the Socialist Government, there has been a threat that the European Union, in addition to our problems, may have taken development resources away from the Hungarian budget, is the European Union's resources. That's the legacy that had to be handled. There were two roads ahead of the Hungarian government. The first way is to continue what the Socialist Government has left as an inheritance in economic policy, to build on the IMF, to borrow loans, and to exchange the IMF's dictates for pennies. The Hungarian government did not ask for this - we had a two-thirds mandate to convert the country - radically something else had to be done, that road was inaccessible. A lot of people were limping, they didn't believe that the government was going to succeed in these cases, and I must admit, the pro-government representatives were also afraid that the economic policy that the government was daring to follow would be effective, because, breaking up with the IMF, the government was trying to get the country on its own feet. He took extraordinary measures, introduced sectoral special taxes, introduced a bank tax, and made every effort to convert large systems based on our two-thirds mandate. With this, of course, the budget was consolidated, we were able to maintain the expected 3% deficit target annually, thus avoiding the excessive deficit procedure and the risk of withdrawing EU development resources is now a thing of the past. During this extremely difficult recession, the government was also able to stimulate domestic demand, and I am thinking about a significant wage increase for teachers, or what affected everyone, is the policy of reducing the rent that left income for Hungarian families, and this income could obviously be used for internal consumption. After that, we were waiting for those international signals to finally be acknowledged. This was done by the IMF a few days ago, otherwise it corrected the growth of the Hungarian economy up to 2 percent this year; obviously it could be significantly more today. The final comment on this topic was the analysis of the London group of investors, Morgan Stanley, in the Central and Eastern European countries, from 2.4 per cent to 2.9 per cent of this year's GDP, and it predicts 2.4 per cent in 2015. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think that we have been waiting for these foreign signals, these are recognition of the performance of the Hungarian government and, in this respect, of the Hungarian people. We have to go this way. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-06-11-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister Varga.
u2014-06-11-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your speech, as it gives me the opportunity to inform this House of the steps taken by the Government in order to improve the economy. Mr President, Mr President, you have very well summarized the initial situation that this government inherited in 2010. One thing I would add is that the countries with which we were in the same hat at the time, including, say, Greece or Portugal, are still in the same situation. In Portugal, if you see it correctly, the government is cluttering from government crisis to government crisis, and it is unable to take meaningful measures, the economy has not yet been driven out of the crisis it took after 2008, and in Greece the question is still being called down, not called, and what help is needed to keep the Greek economy on its feet. In comparison, Hungary has indeed started to reduce its public debt on its own initiative, it has been excluded from the excessive deficit procedure, and the Hungarian government has done so without having to resort to a single penny of external assistance, i.e. neither the IMF nor the European Union's external support was necessary. In fact, I have to say - as you have said, Mr President - that we have managed to get out of the excessive deficit procedure after nine years, that our deficit is below 3 percent, that our budget will continue to produce this deficit level of less than 3 percent, that our public debt will decrease, that our current balance of payments will generate a significant surplus - that is, about 5-6 percent of our gross domestic plan, which occurs in addition - and I have to say that with the 3.5 percent increase, we are in a beating position among the 28 EU Member States, as Hungary has already shifted from a country in recession to an economic growth in the second half of 2013. The question is how to proceed, because we need to stabilise this economic growth, and we need to do this in such a way that we should not, as far as possible, have problems with balance, that is to say, get back to the situation where we were in 2010, what we inherited from previous governments in 2010. [[8.10]] This requires a strict, disciplined fiscal policy. The Hungarian government is ready for this, we have neither adopted nor supported any measure that would bring the country back to debt, debt trap. Yesterday, there was also a debate in Parliament about whether or not debt levels are now falling. Debt levels are falling, and in the last three years this debt has been steadily decreasing. This figure may change temporarily, of course, because in February we issued $3 billion in government bonds, which increased the debt level, but as we have already said several times, we are making repayments for the rest of the year; fortunately, we no longer have to pay back to the IMF, we did this last year, and we cancelled it, but we do have debts that have been taken out earlier, which are repaid from this amount, so the debt level will continue to decrease towards the end of the year. Obviously, the aim should also be to give priority to employment and job creation, in addition to debt reduction. We need economic growth for this. The government's goal is full employment, which means that everyone looking for a job should find a job as far as possible. Economists say that if there are more than four million employees and unemployment and so-called friction unemployment are below 4%, then full employment can also be discussed in Hungary. We have to keep going this way. At present, unemployment is slightly above 8 percent, but the government's goal is to continue to increase the number of jobs. How do you keep growing? By giving priority to the development of the economy during this period. This is a very serious part of industrial development. Hungary is today the third in terms of the proportion of industrial production in the gross domestic product of the Member States of the European Union, but we would like to increase this further, and we would like Hungary to be one of the most advanced or most developed countries in Europe in terms of industrial production. We have a very good chance of doing so, as the interest in foreign capital remains unchanged. In this case, opposition representatives always note that we have not yet been rated by the credit rating agencies. What I can tell you is that in 2008, credit rating agencies gave that Lehman Brothers bank a grade A rating, which went bankrupt after a month. So let's go easy on these credit ratings. For us, the value of the market is much more important, and the market classified Hungary with a good rating and an investor category, which is why Hungarian sovereign debt was oversubscribed six times in February. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-4	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck, Ms Erzsébet LMP, also spoke before the agenda, entitled "Atomic Energy and Sustainable Development." Here you go.
u2014-06-11-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sustainable development is a responsibility for future generations. Everyone is responsible for the future, and this responsibility is shared many times by decision makers. However, the scope of the different decisions is very different for the future, there are decisions that have an immediate impact, while others have an indirect and very distant future. The latter include the use of nuclear energy. According to the international body of fissile materials, it is widely accepted that the storage of spent fuel requires well-designed storage capacities, since it ranges from tens of thousands of years to one million years until safe storage is ensured and until access to the environment is minimised. It may not be necessary to justify that today's decision to exploit nuclear power will be a task and a risk for future generations without benefiting from it. A reference to the possibility of placing high-activity waste on the territory of other countries for a period of time should not be exempt from this serious responsibility. The cost of dismantling and exempting nuclear power plants will also be borne by the future generation. Those who today choose to exploit nuclear power in the world have to face the risk of accidents, the growing threat of terrorism and nuclear weapons. We could say that these events are of negligible probability, but reality has taught us that these are difficult, serious risks. Many today are trying to make renewable energy types costly and uncompetitive. The truth of this is only apparent. Today's politician does not account for the external costs passed on to others and to the future, the negative effects of the destruction of public goods, which society as a whole must pay. If these negative externalities were truly quantifiable, and at the end of the month the postman would also bring a yellow check on this, it would only be revealed to society that we enjoy the present at the expense of the future generation. Can we, decision makers, do this? Can we make decisions when we do not know or seek answers to fundamental questions? Of course, I am aware that nuclear power plants have advantages compared to today's fossil energy-based power plants. I know there's a lot less radiation from a nuclear power plant than a wind plant, not to mention greenhouse gas emissions. But we must choose not between using nuclear energy and fossil energy, but between all the energy available. In this election, it is our duty to choose the least burdensome solution for future generations. Dear Parliament, What would be more competitive: cheap energy or an energy-efficient, low-energy economic structure? What would stimulate the economy more: the construction of a nuclear power plant or the formation of countless elements of a sustainable economic structure? And what would mean more permanent employment: the construction and operation of a nuclear power plant or a Community-based energy supply system based on a variety of energy sources. What would have greater security of supply: a large centralized power plant or an intelligent network with a number of small power-generating units? Does today's decision makers have the right to pawn the future if there is another available solution? Who here will ask future generations what they would choose? And who will answer the questions to the people of today so that they can vote responsibly about our present? These issues should be considered very carefully in relation to the decisions ahead. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-06-11-6	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think from his words of sincere concern, and I think that every responsible person, when making a decision, will consider, look at the risks, the benefits, the disadvantages. From this point of view, I think that the responsibility for future generations is collective, shared in this House, all of us - no matter what political family we are representing in this building, this parliamentary horseshoe - feel responsible for future generations. I myself can safely say that I hope that, for my four children and then for my hopeful grandchildren, we will create and leave a country that will be operational and where they can thrive. In this respect, such a decision is, of course, a very important consideration. On the other hand, we will have another opportunity to debate this in this House, because the debate on the Paks financial agreement or financial contract will be taking place now, and I think that we will be spending several hours together in this debate. [[8.20]] But, Congresswoman, when you buy a car, you face the risk that you have to go out to the market, there are others running, there is a fender bender, there is an accident, and you are prepared for this opportunity. So I think that all of our decisions in life have consequences when we consider the next effect. The nuclear power plant is the same issue. In 2009, the Hungarian Parliament adopted an energy strategy, in which it clearly stated that it would place the Hungarian energy supply on three major bases: renewable energy, nuclear energy and gas, the fossil energy group. We need to strike a balance in this area, and from this point of view Hungary has been living with nuclear energy for 30 years, and I have to say that it is difficult for us to imagine a competitive energy price and a functioning economy without the functioning blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. So it worked, it works, and thanks to God, the technological development of the world is such that this type of energy is becoming safer. I note, on the point of Congresswoman, that it is one of the purest energies, however strange it is. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant remains essential from a climate protection point of view, as its operation does not involve CO2 emissions, saving the oxygen needs of 2 million people per year, i.e. the annual production of oxygen in Hungarian forests, by not releasing greenhouse gases. In this respect, I have to say to you that when the Hungarian Government has considered the advantages and disadvantages of this investment, we have anticipated that this will contribute to cheap energy prices, thereby contributing to the competitiveness of the economy, and I think that we can contribute to increasing and increasing employment and jobs in Hungary, and, not least, we will allow it not to have to, as I said, release a significant amount of carbon dioxide into the environment. Of course, there was also a responsible need to consider whether this investment had its financial cover. I feel that we have made a good agreement on this; I will talk about this in the Parliamentary Expo. On the other hand, we have also considered the need to conclude a contract in which the disposal of waste, the safety of storage, and the security of transport are guaranteed. Parliament has already decided on this part of the investment and has accepted this Parliament with 85% support. I also draw from this - given the fact that Members represent their constituents - that there is a very significant social support for nuclear energy in Hungary. If I rely on different surveys, I can tell you that the ratio between three quarters and two thirds of the population supports the investment and construction of this power plant. It was still a question of whether the country was in an economic position to finance it. I feel like I do. We enter into a good contract, 40 percent of the contract creates job opportunities for domestic use and domestic suppliers. The investment itself will increase the performance of the economy by 1 percent. We are looking at the creation of 8-9 thousand new jobs during the period of investment, and I think these numbers speak for themselves. And our debt growth will be temporary. Here, too, I would like to reassure the Member, not to worry, that Hungarian public debt is on a declining path, and this " fits in'with the temporary rise in debt levels. It is a 32-year agreement, so the level of this debt must be spread over 32 years. The Hungarian economy will be in a state of hope that it will be able to make this repayment without any trouble and effort. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-8	Thank you very much. At the same time, Mr Mirkóczki, Member Ádám Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda. Pre-meeting address: " Service providers for the purposes of services? ". Congressman, please.
u2014-06-11-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Perhaps I should start with an explanation as to why not, say, at a closed meeting of the National Security Committee, I am talking about this and why I am talking about it in front of Parliament and the public on television. Perhaps because, on the one hand, this is not a party policy issue, and, on the other hand, I try to follow the framework so that it is not even necessary to refer to classified information, and, on the other hand, this whole matter may be of a minimum public interest and a broad public interest. Every day, more and more details come to light in Europe, throughout the world and in Hungary about the perceived or real abuses that occur in the area of secret services, whether within the framework of the law or beyond, in relation to various data collections, observations, wiretappings. The avalanche began around the same time as Edward Snowden, a former NSA employee, published certain documents that show that the United States of America has observed its own allies in a very unprecedented and very aggressive way, placed him in a vulnerable position, abused trust, and the rest, and so on. At that time, many of the Member States of the European Union that were involved were quite rightly, I would add, quite rightly, out of themselves and demanded various explanations and other reactions. There was also a weak experiment in Hungary, so let's put it this way, perhaps no one will dispute it. At the end of the previous term, a committee of inquiry was set up to explore how and how Hungary was affected by the American wiretapping scandal, but this committee, even from its time frame, is quite - how should I put it? - he was anemic, because he only had two meetings, and he couldn't answer a number of questions, unless the government had answers, but it wasn't known to the public. For example, we did not listen to the authority of the US Embassy within the commission, for example, we did not listen to any of the NSA's co-workers, we did not listen to the domestic leaders of Facebook, Google, Microsoft, which provided data and provided it almost unconditionally to the NSA, and the rest and so on. As a result, there have been no satisfactory responses to this scandal in Hungary. Then a few days ago, based on the Guardian article, we obtain information that Vodafone has also provided various telephone data, conversations, text messages, and so on and so forth to agents from different countries and different governments. From these data, it is clear that in Hungary only in the last year, i.e. one year, 76,000 conversations or data traffic were handed over to one of the bodies by Vodafone. Well, that raises a number of questions and makes you wonder. But before I talk about some problematic issues, it is worth comparing only some EU or European countries with regard to Vodafone. In Hungary, 76 thousand data traffics were transmitted according to the article, in France only three, in Belgium two, in Ireland 4100, in Portugal 28 thousand, and in Spain much larger than us 48 thousand compared to our 76 thousand. This triggers many, many questions, and I would like to emphasise once again that this is absolutely not a party political issue, and I think that can affect everyone. If the article is true and is true, then I would very much like to get an answer from the government on whether these wiretaps, observations, data reporting were legal, whether they were affected by Hungarian citizens or foreign nationals residing in Hungary, what about other telephone operators, what about Facebook, Google, Microsoft or any other service provider in Hungary. Was all criminals or data traffic linked to a presumptive crime, or shouldn't be 'God', I do not want to assume that, and I trust that this is not the answer - like the NSA, the Hungarian government generally controls its own citizens in this way? I trust that's not the case. I look forward to your reply, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-10	Thank you very much. Minister Sándor Pintér responds on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I will give you the answer to the last question of the Member very clearly. The government has never illegally requested any data from any service provider for its own use. I'd like to start with that. And it is also natural that in the world, since mankind has existed, there has always been a demand for news that has extended to the field of information technology in the future. [[8.30]] But for the news demand, there was intelligence activity in the previous period, in Hungarian espionage and counterintelligence activities related to counterintelligence. Accordingly, this evolved over the millennia, and as technology evolved and it was possible to transmit information by electronic means, this also included the possibility of looking into such mail and electronic mail. Different countries have solved this in different ways. There are countries that indicate bodies to which they are obliged to provide all the data to the service providers at the request of this body, and they do not require a separate authorisation. There are countries that break this up, such as Hungary. There are news sections that need to be handed over on request, and there are some that are subject to an external licence. Areas subject to an external licence shall be divided into two parts. One is when it is bound to a judicial license, because there is a reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence which justifies the gathering of confidential information, and the other where it is subject to the permission of another external body, the Minister of Justice. Law enforcement authorities also choose the judicial path and, in the event of a thorough suspicion of a crime, the authorities responsible for the protection of the State choose the judicial path, otherwise in counterintelligence and other secret areas, we choose the ministerial path for justice. I would like to say that, accordingly, these special permits have been obtained by the competent authorities in all cases of obtaining information. Here the court, the D.A., the police, the NAV have the opportunity to do so; it's practically the circle that can access it. In cases where no special permission is required, telephone surveillance, information gathering is not possible. It's just that we're going to see if the phone that you're selling, what numbers you're selling, we can get a call list, but we can't tie the people to it, we can't do the wiretap that we originally imagined. Only with a judge's license or a judicial minister's license. You say 76,000 data were provided. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, you referred to Vodafone as 76,000 data. But the 76,000 data may have phone numbers, maybe it was location, where, how many towers were in contact with that information unit. So what I can't tell you is whether it's too much or not. It is also necessary to look at the coverage of that provider in that country. He mentioned that there was only a country where he only got 2 grand. Vodafone may be present as a minimum in that country, while in Hungary, this market is very limited, four large operators provide this area in their entirety. If your request is justified, we can give you in a closed session quite precise figures: how many people we have been listening to, for what purpose we have been listening to, for whom we have authorized this, for which judicial permission is required, and we can also tell you what was the result of this. Because we can prove not only that someone is guilty or has built a guilty relationship, but also that he is innocent in a particular case. Here, I would specifically highlight serious crimes, organised crime and manslaughter. I think finding a homicide is worth the proper monitoring of such an electronic news service. Thank you for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-12	Thank you very much. Member Erik Bánki, Fidesz, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. His speech was entitled "Hungary Performs Better ". You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is performing better, which is supported by economic data in recent months. In his speech to the agenda, Mr Harghitai, my fellow Member, Mr Harghitai, has already discussed in detail where Hungary started, the difficult steps we had to take in dealing with the crisis, avoiding complete collapse and boosting the economy. Well, it looks like the data backs it up, and it proves that the path we've been on was right. The Hungarian economy increased by 3.2 percent in the first quarter of 2014 compared to the same period of the previous year. With these data, with these results, we have achieved that we have become Europe's leading students. We started in 2010 from Europe's rushing position, we were among the last in the ranking, and now we are on the podium, because behind Romania and Poland we were able to deliver the third best economic performance. Dear Minister, Allow me to congratulate you personally for this, as your work was involved in this, and by asking you to lead the portfolio, the Prime Minister said to the Hungarian and international players in the economy that they could expect a predictable, reliable and effective economic policy from the Hungarian government for the next four years. Based on strong first quarter GDP data, several analytical institutes have improved their 2014 growth projections for the performance of the Hungarian economy. JP Morgan analysts from the region have improved the growth forecast of the Hungarian economy to the greatest extent, increasing it from 2.5 percent to 3 percent. But Barclay's analysts also expect 3 percent economic growth in the Hungarian economy by 2014. At the same time, dynamic economic growth is backed by complex mechanisms. We are pleased to see that there are positive developments in all areas of the economy at present, not only one outlier segment, but we can safely say that the performance of the Hungarian economy as a whole is increasing, and this gives us great hope in the long term. These figures show, ladies and gentlemen, that the crisis management model that the government of national cooperation started in 2010 and the economic recovery programme that so many people attacked at European level have proved themselves, however, that there is a Hungarian model. After all, in times of crisis, a government has to use instruments that are different from the usual previous practice in order to ensure effective crisis management. Domestic industrial production has also increased significantly in recent months. From the beginning of the year, we could register an increase of 8.9 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. Moreover, it is glad that industrial production has expanded in all regions of the country. There are extremely encouraging processes in the construction sector. In March, construction increased by 34.2 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. In particular, it should be pointed out that the volume of contract stocks, which relates to orders for the next period, exceeds the data for the previous year by 64 percent, which suggests that this increase will continue in the coming years and will be sustained in the construction sector. The growing economic activity also had a positive impact on employment. In April more than 4.1 million people worked in Hungary, which is a record result, the highest employment rate in the last 20 years. Today there are nearly 375 thousand more people working than four years ago. These processes, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrate that the objective of the government of re-established national cooperation is realistic, which has set itself the objective of achieving full employment. Positive processes have become noticeable by both the economy and society, and it shows that business and consumer indices have risen to unprecedented levels over many years in recent months. Thus, market players trust Hungary, they appreciate the economic policy of the Hungarian government, which is a serious recognition for all of us. The economic figures, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, clearly show that Hungary continues to perform better and is doing better, so there is a good chance that we can expect to remain Europe's leading students in the coming years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-06-11-14	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga is speaking on behalf of the government. Here you go. [[Dr. István Józsa: I would like to hear your role.]]
u2014-06-11-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mr President, for your speech and your suggestion, because we Hungarians have a tendency to underestimate our own achievements at times, even though these successes, these economic performances are certainly outstanding by European standards. So much so that, after your speech, Mr Congressman, even from behind me, the opposition representatives gave a round of applause to this list of results. [[Dr. István Józsa: It was for the speech.]] [[8.40]] I think that this is a good sign, it shows that our opposition fellow Members have learned from the results of the April election, they have revalued it a little. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: The MSZP!]] I wonder why the electorate has entrusted the government with continuing its work, why we have received a two-thirds majority again. And indeed, I feel that we are beginning to recognise the joint effort and joint work behind these achievements, which is the merit of all Hungarian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to compare some of the performances that we have behind us. In the first quarter of 2014, the growth of the Hungarian economy increased to 3.5 percent, as you said, Member, and we are indeed in a beating place in the European Union. Hungary is also performing better in terms of its combined growth over four years than the euro area Member States. The sad factual situation with regard to the euro area is that the euro area has stagnated in recent years. I say this is a sad fact because it is our most important export markets. We hope that the euro zone will move out of this stagnation and help the Hungarian economy export opportunities through growth. In addition to a low government deficit and declining government debt, the latest monthly figures show that industry's performance has increased by more than 10 percent. This is certainly a pleasure for us, because we believe that the growth of industrial performance is the main driver of the growth of the Hungarian economy. He also mentioned that the construction industry had a 34 percent dynamic growth in March. This was the second highest pace in the European Union, so we also achieved a beating result here. In the first quarter of 2014, Hungary's Member States of the European Union increased their investments to the greatest extent, which also contributes to the foundation of the growth path of the coming years. I would just like to mention that we already experienced a 10% increase in 2013. I'm glad retail sales are growing. The third fastest among the Member States of the European Union was this growth. The whitening of the black economy, the extra income for people, the wage measures, the family tax reduction, all of this contributed to this increase in consumption. Our foreign trade is growing in two figures, which also shows an extremely high surplus by international standards. Net gross domestic product-related exports reached the fourth highest of the Member States of the European Union last year. The congressman was talking about employment. I can confirm that, instead of 3.8 million, 4.1 million people are now working in the country. The unemployment rate at home is lower than the average of the European Union. Here, too, I have to say that Hungary has reduced the unemployment rate by 3 percent over the past four years, making the fourth largest reduction of the countries concerned after the Baltic States. I was talking about family tax breaks. As a result of the cuts in the overhead costs, the loss of money has been eliminated. Now, in subsequent months, there is not only inflation but also deflation, so the value of our money has increased. We hope that this process will be lasting, already in terms of low inflation for the year as a whole, because it will certainly help those with low incomes, their money, their pensions, to preserve their value better. Households have to spend more than HUF 300 billion less each year on housing maintenance because of the overhead measures. As a result of increasing incomes and falling spending, household savings have increased by HUF 2500 billion over the past 4 years. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, So I must say that the international comparison mentioned above also shows that Hungary's performance is at the forefront of the European Union. Let us rejoice in our joint successes and be proud that Hungary is doing better, indeed, in many areas, and not in one case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-16	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the proposal for a law on advertising tax will follow in an exceptional procedure. Congressman L. Simon László, Fidesz, on his own motion T/154. Available on the website. The Legislative Committee T/154/7. T/154/8. and its summary report. These can be seen on the network. I now give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László, the rapporteur on the agenda. Congressman, you have 15 minutes.
u2014-06-11-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There is a bill before my fellow Members, a bill that we have been debating both in politics and in the public last week. Apparently, the debate is not generated by politics, not by politicians themselves, but by media service providers who otherwise own large companies and fear for their incomes, fear for their incomes, believe that the kind of idea that the government side supports to a large extent about the transformation of the tax system should not be affected, so they should not take part in the burden of public property. Nevertheless, we stand by our position. Fidesz clearly considers the tax system of the coming years of Hungary to be a place for this type of traffic taxes, and those who receive significant incomes must play a greater role in the burden-sharing. As stated in the general justification of the bill, changes in the tax system in recent years have reduced the role of labour income tax in public funding, and the tax system's focus has increasingly shifted to turnover and consumption taxes. Several special sales taxes have been created that have affected a segment of the economy that is not of major importance for economic growth and employment. In line with this transformation of the tax system, the bill envisages a new turnover tax on advertising and the provision of advertising services. It is therefore clear that we do not want to tax income, but rather a special income of media service providers, and also this in a progressive way, taking into account that the organ serving opinion, freedom of opinion and opinion pluralism should not be the losers of this tax introduction. So we were primarily looking at moving the media in a qualitative direction. Therefore, after not exceeding half a billion forints, we are talking about advertising revenue and not sales, we are talking only about advertising part of the turnover - the tax to be paid would be 0 per cent. For media service providers with advertising revenues between half a billion and 5 billion forints, 1 percent, then there would be higher keys, here would be a leap between HUF 5 billion and HUF 10 billion, between HUF 10 billion and HUF 15 billion, between 20 percent, between 15 and 20 billion, between 30 percent, and over 20 billion, 40 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last few days, there has been a series of questions in the public eye. Let's go through all this. The first question is why the ad tax has now been introduced, why do we have to deal with this issue right now? Let us make it clear to ourselves that this issue has been constantly on the agenda for the past decade and a half. This type of tax was first introduced in 2000. In 2008, trade unions also proposed the introduction, and in 2013 the National Stakeholder Council proposed to the government the introduction of a tax on advertising. So this is not a question that we have just brought up, which would not be without precedent, which we would not have talked about, and in the previous government cycle we made clear our intention to introduce a tax of this type, but this was not done at the end of last year, which is why we submitted this at the beginning of this year. The reason why we have to present this now is because it will be possible for us to count on the increase in the budget when planning the 2015 budget by adopting the new tax. But of course, if you have read the draft legislation, you can see that this will be paid already in 2014, so that the budget will have revenue. [[8.50]] We believe that the Fidesz faction unanimously confirmed this at yesterday's faction meeting that this tax will be part of a fair public burden, as the media will pay a proportional tax on revenues from advertising. In a country where banks, telecommunications companies, but in essence utility providers, should be able to bear such an additional burden for media with incredible strength. Another question that has been raised many times over the past few days is why there has been no consultation on the referral of the advertising tax. Ladies and gentlemen, This is an individual motion by Members, which we thought should be submitted now, at the beginning of the term, and this issue should be carried out once and for all in the parliamentary decision-making process. Thus, we have not been able to go through the type of consultation that could be expected from the government in other cases, since it is not the government's proposal. But yesterday at the committee meeting, it also turned out that the government was in favour of the proposal before us. I must be honest with you, your debates over the last week have shown me what such a discussion would have been about. Obviously, they have not talked in the last week about what this bill is about, so they have not talked about what the structure of the Hungarian advertising market looks like, how the possibility of institutionalized corruption is in it with the bonus system against which they have already expressed their views in many countries of Europe, on which a bill to abolish the bonus system was adopted in France or Romania. They are not talking about the fact that the 200 billion Hungarian advertising cake flows increasingly out without tax, without VAT and profit tax revenue, mostly to large American-owned companies, and to large Internet companies from sources produced by Hungarian taxpayers. They are talking about the fact that freedom of the press will be violated here, that the government is now kneeling at the throats of freedom of the press, and that journalists are using all kinds of other powerful signs and metaphors, whose independence is, of course, highly questionable, because they are in the interests of their owners. They speak in the interest of the owners and keep silent on the clear fact that this bill does not affect freedom of the press at all. Those Organs [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] - let me finish, Congresswoman, you will have the opportunity to comment - those organs, which, by the way, serve opinion pluralism in Hungary, which formulate opposition opinions, are not due to the 500 million forint border, or because of the 5 billion forint border, there is only a 1% tax rate, only very modestly affected by the bill. I have made it clear in the last week's debates that the oldest and most distasteful tabloid programmes in certain commercial media are obviously not part of the freedom of the press. The fact that television viewers view unstandard programs in various entertainment media, if any, does not serve the interests of Hungarian press or Hungarian quality journalism at all. How much revenue does the budget expect from the ad tax? We heard the questions. According to our current calculations, it could be between HUF 8 and HUF 10 billion, if we adopt the law in this way, as it lies before you, by adopting the law with the current tax rates, that is about what the advertising tax could be. Yesterday, in the Legislative Committee and in the Committee on Budgets, I received it from my fellow Members, both from the LMP representative and from my socialist fellow Members and from Mr Fodor, that this is a bagatell sum, that it is a small amount of resources for the budget, and why, for 8-10 billion resources, we are annoying the media and why we are endangering the functioning of the media. I must say that this is immense cynicism, and we strongly reject that. For the Hungarian budget, 8 billion HUF is a lot of money. To give a personal example, to make it noticeable: I ran the National Cultural Fund for three years, Mr. President knows He managed the operation of the National Cultural Fund as a minister; when he resigned from the ministerial seat, he had a total budget of HUF 7 billion for the National Cultural Fund, of which HUF 4 billion was distributed to the applicants. This amount has now gone up to HUF 10 billion, and between HUF 8 and HUF 10 billion have been distributed annually over the past four years. In Hungary there is no cultural house, library, museum, there is no Hungarian community beyond the border, no Hungarian institution, from the theatre of Sepsiszentgyörgy to the archives of Beregszász, which would not benefit from this system. This HUF 10 billion is the lifeblood of Hungarian culture today. Anyone who then tells me that HUF 8 billion or HUF 10 billion in additional revenue does not count for the Hungarian budget, Hungarian education, Hungarian culture, is cynical, and does not take into account the interests of Hungarian voters. What will happen to the revenue from the advertising tax? Of course, the budget will be enriched, and, as Minister Lazarus, who spoke on behalf of the Government, said the other day, the government intends to use this revenue for basic educational purposes, and I consider this to be very appropriate. He's doing such a great deal of destruction. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Unfortunately, there are some media among young people that should be compensated. I am pleased with the clarity on the part of my socialist fellow Members, so I think we will have the opportunity to debate here. What support can we expect for the adoption of the advertising tax? - they asked me the other day, and they were trying to make things look like it was some kind of individual action. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report that the Fidesz faction unanimously supported both the submission and the adoption of this bill, and I must say that, on the basis of our surveys over the last week, the broad sections of society support this tax. Thanks to God, people see that this is necessary, they see that we will have to strengthen it on a series of ethical issues, even in the area of further media regulation. And it is also seen by the voters that the diversionary operation, which was also formulated by the opposition representatives and major media workers to talk about freedom of the press, does not work here. It is clear to the voters that this is not the case. I must note that, as in the adoption of the media law, there was practically a self-determining logic, a self-discovery logic, when the front page of the Népszabadság appeared with a white cover when the media law was adopted, and it was written that the freedom of the press in Hungary had ended. This was the most eloquent proof of the freedom of the press in Hungary. The anointed prophets and editors of Népszabadság would have dared to make such a headline in 1982 - obviously they wouldn't have dared then, because censorship wouldn't have allowed them to. Then there was censorship, and today there is freedom of the press, so they can appear with such a cover, darken their screens for 15 minutes; so this means that there is freedom of the press in Hungary, and as long as we govern it, it will remain so. [[István Tukacs: That's why I needed this law!]] I must also add that this freedom of the press is not threatened by our government, but is in the interest of the owners, which is often willing to face public burdens, public interest, and to argue in a hypocritical manner on a matter where honest speech would otherwise be needed. Finally, let me tell you a few things about the effects we expect from the introduction of the advertising tax. The introduction of the advertising tax does not undermine or restrict the freedom of the press in Hungary, as I have already said, and I have to say that the most critical media with the government will probably not pay advertising tax. I mentioned, as an example, in the debate over the last few days, Népszava, the Hungarian Orange, and neither of them's advertising revenue reaches half a billion forints. The introduction of a commercial tax doesn't compromise programmes. The medium that would cut down his most successful programs because of the advertising tax would lose much more than he would have to pay. This is quite obvious, and when we talk about the termination of Hungarian production programmes, let us say that some of these are produced in Brazil, and let us say that they are made to cover commitments which are otherwise public service commitments. And, indeed, we have been arguing for a long time about how different tabloids can be mentioned at one level and, by the way, accounted for to the media authority in the same way as, say, a serious educational programme on public service television. [[9.00]] The introduction of the advertising tax does not jeopardise jobs, as the production of quality content requires professionals, without them no medium has a chance to be more successful than today in an expanding advertising market. Let's just say that now, so let's not talk about the job losses here. If jobs cease to exist, these media will obviously not be able to obtain advertising revenues. The introduction of the advertising tax also reverses the difficult market, which the profession has been talking about for years at all its conferences. The introduction of the law also provides an opportunity for the advertising market [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We are preparing for the taxation of web-surfaces that skim 20-25 percent, and we will talk about this in substance later, because this is what the national economy needs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill before you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-18	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, who wishes to present the government's position. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur, Mr L. Simon, presented the subject matter and the specific items of the bill correctly. I think that I no longer need to discuss this, so please ignore this, allow me to focus more on the aspects of the government's support for the adoption of this proposal. It is clear that, by taking the advertising tax into account, taxation of the advertising market, the budget will receive revenue to cover social common expenditure. In this respect, I myself can confirm that, yes, 8-10 billion forints are not little. The Member said that a wide range of cultural products and services could be financed from such an amount for an entire year. I think that this is definitely a serious item of the budget. The planned tax does not fit well in the process of restructuring the tax system, as it is a traffic and consumption-related public burden that does not affect industrial production sectors or, say, the agricultural sector. Therefore, there is no economic or fiscal reason against the tax. The government's aim remains to focus more on consumption-type taxes, while reducing the public burden on labour income. In the last four years, economic policy has been adapted accordingly, so in this respect, the advertising tax fits into this tax policy approach. The Member spoke about the tax liability of advertising to adopt this proposal. I think that I do not need to redefine these, as do the specific tax provisions of this proposal. All in all, Mr President, I would like to say that the Government supports the proposal, its adoption. There have already been additional amendments at the committee meeting yesterday, and we will also support the adoption of amendments. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented within a total period of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Aradski, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have eight minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Yesterday, the Legislative Committee discussed T/154. The draft law on advertising tax, to which he submitted 26 amendments with no votes and 9 non-voting votes, and 25 Yes, 7 Non-voting reports with 3 abstentions, also submitted it to the House. The amendment consists of two important parts. One was the amendment tabled by our fellow Member, Imre Vas, to improve the bill from a technical point of view, and the other was much more significant. This was presented by the committee itself, the Legislative Committee. In particular, it is in this proposal that, under certain conditions, the burden on the subject of the advertising tax is reduced by the law, giving it the opportunity to apply certain conditions. This condition is no different from that of taxable persons who have incurred losses in corporation tax and in property in the previous years, which may be taken into account at 50 per cent of the tax base, i.e. may reduce the tax base to up to 50 per cent of the tax base, thereby reducing their obligation to pay advertising tax. There has been quite a characterising debate within the Committee in terms of the proposals for amendment and in terms of the general assessment of the law. First of all, it could be seen that the pro-government representatives supported the submission of the bill and supported the amendments made by the committee and by our fellow Member Imre Vas. The opposition representatives were divided on the bill. The representatives of Jobbik basically supported the bill, opposed by the opposition, the socialists, the LMP and the single-member liberals. [[Dr. András Schiffer: He wasn't even there!]] It was their argument - sorry, then LMP did not comment on this issue; the other side considered this bill a mockery of freedom of the press, an attack on freedom of the press. The majority pro-government opinion was quite characteristic in the sense that many of us have explained that the tax set out in the bill, the way in which the tax is imposed, is basically in line with the logic of our tax policy for five years now. In particular, as the Minister pointed out earlier, we want to reduce taxes on labour, but in areas where there is little added value or quasi-monopoly, and, let us say, that in the world of work, jobs are not at the forefront, there are certain specific taxes to be imposed in order to ensure that social justice, public burdens are even more pronounced and more effective. We believe that the majority saw that these objectives should be identified, and that an interesting approach by the opposition which makes the tax correct and the justification for the benefit expressed in the amendments to the bill should not be followed, as the debate in the committee has also focused on this. My opposition fellow Members questioned what media service providers had put in a better position to reduce advertising tax. What I can tell them is that if you were so interested, you would have been able to look at the balance sheet and accounts of the media service providers in the company register, and everyone would have found out. We didn't care about that. We thought that, in view of the failure to comply and in Tao, the loss or loss of these two taxes could only be a reason for the tax reduction. By the way, as the author said, local newspapers, local media, literary newspapers and other journals, which constitute the backbone of freedom of the press, are not affected by the presentation of the tax. In fact, I have to say that a withdrawal of such an excessive income concentration in the name of justice and burden-sharing will in the future mean the determination of the tax, which must be supported in any way, must in any case be considered as a continuation of a tax policy demonstrating their economic results so far. [[9.10]] Therefore, the Legislative Committee proposes that the bill be discussed and adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-22	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth to present the minority opinion. Congressman, you have seven minutes. Here.
u2014-06-11-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, It can be seen that the application of the new house rule, the law, causes some problems, because how strange it is that detailed debate and decisions closing it prevent a general debate. This is also probably due to the fact that my fellow Member has generally given his opinion on the bill, while I believe that this is in the general debate. We object to this, and I think that the House Rule provision which states that this can only be done in exceptional cases must be justified in writing to the Speaker. This has been done by my fellow Member, Mr Gulyás Gergely, Mr President, although we have not been convinced by the reasons he has formulated and by which he has supported this initiative. So we think that there are very different interests on the part of the authors and on the part of the Fidesz faction than that the budget here needs revenue from this. Three amendments were discussed by the Legislative Committee, there was a clarification, there was Jobbik's proposal, and there was a very surprising new proposal for us, which - I would like to point out - was given three times by the colleague on the Legislative Committee, because it still had to be clarified. Although it was also surprising that, in our view, this amendment was already in the drawer, it would have been enough to take it out, but it still had to be amended. It was my fellow Member, Schiffer, who at the first committee meeting said that as a new Member, I would still be surprised at a lot of things; at the hearing of the law on municipal elections, I was surprised that we had received a complex, almost new legislation for the Legislative Committee. I am now once again surprised that a fundamentally subversive and questionable amendment has been tabled, because there the author, L. Simon László, said that this is a type of sales tax, which is a turnover tax on the amount received from advertising revenue, but makes an exception that makes the set loss depreciable up to 50 per cent of the tax base. This is an outrageous proposal, and as my fellow Member mentioned, we have looked at in the register which companies might be involved in this. Most prominently, TV2, which can be the beneficiary of this amendment proposal, is why we have named this amendment lex TV2, since the two largest contributors would be RTL Klub and TV2 because of the bands and the percentages, and the amendment proposal makes a special discount and an exception to TV2, which is totally unacceptable to us and unworthy of Parliament, as well as legislation. And in my ears are the sentences of President László Kövér, who said that a slower, more mature piece of legislation is about to begin and that we are facing such a period. I hear the statements made at the hearing by the new Minister of Justice, Minister Trocsányi, which said that a well-founded codification work would start again, which is why the Ministry of Justice is being established. In comparison, three modified amendments are tabled to Members, which make an exception to almost one organisation; and the question arises as to why. And then the statements or assumptions that we have made earlier, the interests of which this television channel belongs, whose interests this exception serves, and somehow there are always lex exceptions at Fidesz, since they always find the character with whom an exception can be found, an exception must be made. Once again, I stress that this is completely unacceptable to us. And if you allow me to make one more reference, my fellow Member, you have also presented the opposition's position in a majority position. I think that we have not only approached this proposal from the point of view of freedom of the press, but we have said that it is a penalty tax. The biggest paying man, you can see that an independent television channel that is not in Fidesz's interest is not under the influence. So it's a penalty tax, which Fidesz wants to punish this television channel. And there was another contradiction on the part of the author, which was that the so-called trash that these televisions or this television broadcast deserve to be taxed, while he said that it would certainly not be abolished, because it is the largest advertising revenue. So, even here, there is a contradiction in the practicality of the tax. So once again, in our view, we are talking about a penalty tax, which is not eligible, because legislation, legislation, is not meant to serve power interests, and the exceptions are not intended to give benefits to certain circles, circles of friends, circles of friends. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will vote against this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-24	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In doing so, the political groups may express their views over a period of 30 to 30 minutes. Independent Members can speak for a total of 8 minutes. First, the keynote speeches. The party's pre-registered representative and lead speaker are not in the room, so the floor is for the MSZP Group. Two Members present the speech by the lead speaker of the MSZP, and I will give the floor first to Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The history of the advertising tax illustrates two key elements in the worldview of Fidesz. Unfortunately, it's about what they think about the state in Fidesz today, and what the governing party simply doesn't understand or want to understand. In Fidesz's resolution, the laws are the tools of the party's power interests. The advertising tax is not supported by any sound consideration or professional argument, but it fits very well with Fidesz's political strategy. After public media have already been occupied, their particular logic is to make commercial channels lose. From here on, it's government advertising that decides who survives and who doesn't. We also see that in Fidesz they still believe that, by threatening commercial media on their own feet and pushing them through special taxes, they can take another step in breaking the public, narrowing free information. However, in the centuries of the Internet, this is a vain fantasy. Although it can cause difficulties and adaptation constraints, it will not be possible to prevent the free flow of information in Hungary, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz. In fact, Fidesz's idea of advertising tax is for reorganising the market. Under the draft law, advertising tax would also be imposed on printed daily and weekly newspapers, as well as Internet portals, outdoor advertising media and vehicle advertising, which are already in difficulty. We are talking about media that are, by the way, taxing as a business in Hungary today, paying taxes on their employees and activities just like any other company. The tax base, according to you, is turnover. Technically, this means that there will be media that this tax will destroy, that is to say, your decision will cause them to lose their business. You know that very well. This step also fits into your trust-breaking policy, which we have been getting very good illustrations from for years. After that, it becomes even more justified that anyone should think carefully about whether it is worth doing business in Hungary at all, regardless of whether it is domestic or foreign. And no one has any doubt, and the tax itself will be paid by the viewers, students, readers, as the media will have to adapt, so the prices will increase, so you will once again have people pay their short-term decision serving only party interests. [[9.20]] It is also clear that the main target to be hunted is one of the commercial televisions, RTL Club, which, according to the news, has increased the government's resentment on several occasions. In the current media market, they are the only group of companies with a tax base of more than HUF 20 billion, i.e. the main category. Therefore, it is no coincidence that, with an amendment tabled by you, the other large commercial channel, TV2, would be put in a lighter position and would reduce its burden under the original text. Is this your equality? This new tax reduces the freedom of the press in two ways, no matter how much they deny it: on the one hand, it narrows down public spaces, as it will result in media disappearing from the market, destroying the diverse media markets, and on the other hand it inevitably narrows the public as well as fewer operators; on the other hand, it refers part of the return of media companies from market success to the government's decision. After that, government advertising policy also selects the successful players in the media market, and this is not a competitive economy, but something quite different, which has failed once in history - is it not, my fellow Member? Of course, you governing parties claim that there is no such thing as advertising tax and the content of journalism have nothing to do with each other. You, fellow pro-government Members, say that the advertising tax is nothing but proportionate public burdens. On the one hand, you know that this is not the case, and on the other hand, if you are already arguing for a fair public burden, consider the proposal of the MSZP. We propose not to destroy competing companies in Hungary, but to introduce a system where each company, whether from domestic or EU sources of public money, achieves a particularly high profit in Hungary, pays 75 percent of its dividend to the budget as a tax. This is where justice begins. One more word of magnitude is worth wasting. The revenue of the advertising tax is estimated at around HUF 8-10 billion in revenue in their proposal, compared to that, only the public media budget is HUF 78 billion. Where's the proportionality here, my dear fellow Member? In addition, advertising tax will also cause economic damage to Hungary! According to recent data from the Advertising Association, every 10 HUF spent results in HUF 47 in GDP, which is HUF 820 billion per year. Will you make up for the revenue lost by the ad tax, my dear fellow Member? And finally, Honourable Parliament, we are in favour of freedom of speech and freedom of the press. This advertising tax, which you have submitted, is Fidesz's instrument of power policy, does not support any professional argument, the more there is against it: it is harmful to confidence in the country, it is harmful to freedom of the press, it is harmful to a well-functioning media sector, although it is also balanced in a difficult situation in today's drowned Hungarian economy. I would like to close by saying that one thing must be clear to everyone: freedom of the press is not a pass, it is life itself. The political power that, for a period of time, whether it is left or right, wins the psychics, will eventually eat itself. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-11-26	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Sándor Burány, another lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There is a cynical bill before us now; it is cynical because its justification is false to the core. Let us consider from an economic point of view whether the budget needs fresh and extraordinary tax revenues now, in the raging summer heat. At the hearing of Minister Mihály Varga, he said that the government felt that the budget was stable, and although some minor adjustments could be envisaged during the year, the government did not consider that the lack of public finances was in any danger. As a result, there is no need for a bill passed through Parliament in a few days. I would like to note - while we are talking about economic laws and economic impacts - that the bill also violates the laws of Fidesz. I would like to point out to this House that the 2011 CXCIV on economic stability. Law 30. Paragraph 1 (1) expressly requires that, in the event of any new obligation to pay revenue, the revenue is determined in which sub-scheme of public finances - a clear legal requirement. However, the single letter in the bill does not indicate which of the public sector's sub-schemes will be increased by this extraordinarily imposed penalty tax, for what political, social or economic purposes the government intends to use it for. It is quite clear that if the budget situation does not justify this revenue, the reasons must be looked elsewhere. The budget can't justify it, my fellow Members, because although we have debated a lot about stadium building fever here and how unnecessary it is to spend more than HUF 80 billion on such purposes in terms of the current state and quality of Hungarian football, it has now been found by even better journalists that the planned HUF 8-10 billion is not enough to build even half a stadium. It is therefore clear that while a revenue of 9 billion may double the annual revenue of a local government, a larger local municipality, but not a significant amount in terms of public finances as a whole, which would be justified by the introduction of such a rapid, urgent, exceptional procedure, the negotiation and decision-making of a local government in a few hours in Parliament. Clearly, the reasons are elsewhere. It's enough to look up news about the media of the last few days so you know exactly what these reasons are. Just gleaning among these news: the Hungarian Telegram Office, which is reserved for public money, selectively selects the news between what it reports and what it doesn't report; sometimes the Hungarian Telegram Agency's staff attends a press conference, even asks questions, and then no news comes from it. In a perfectly clear way, which is an unpleasant subject for the government, it is better for citizens not to even know, and if the public media is kept on such a short leash by Fidesz, it is clear that everyone who is informed of the news of the Hungarian Telegrams Office in the country will hear mostly good news about the government, and will not hear news that is bad for Fidesz and for the government, not to the extent that this is said. It is also recent news that the last rural frequency of Klubradio has been lost, in essence, by limiting the possibilities of spreading independent media, not conservative, but left-wing and liberal media, independent of a government. In essence, they limit the number of people to whom the opinion expressed against the government is independent of the government. And here is the biggest scandal of the last few days: the Origo dared to vent how János Lázár took part in public money, what hotel he lived in, how much money he spent on this trip, and there is great secrecy in this matter. It is worth a separate topic whether this trip is justified by this amount of money, but this is not the subject of the bill. [[9.30]] However, it is part of the bill that everyone in the country considered this to be an important element of freedom of the press and what happened afterwards and what happened was a disgrace to freedom of the press. What then happened was that the journalist who was the main actor in publishing this article was resigned. It was a clear message, and the press colleagues working at the editorship of Origo and everyone else in the Hungarian media saw this message as clear: friendly phones can be easily replaced in Hungary today by journalists, editors in chief who report news, and provide information that is unpleasant to the government, while providing information to the media eating from the palm of Fidesz, when it comes to discrediting political opponents. I must also tell you, fellow Members, that the practice proves the thesis that in Hungary, in the media market, there is a cunning fear at the moment. Because these written experiences are not the only thing that restricts freedom of the press. Unfortunately, there is not one case in which large companies and editorials report to me cases where they object to advertising in government circles, in fidesz circles, if an independent market player, so to speak, places advertisements in media whose content is unwelcome to the government. It is common practice to draw the attention of market players to the fact that this is not a fortunate behaviour from the government's point of view, and given that this urgent and exceptional governance, which will override any law in Parliament within days, is at the mercy of any player in the independent market, a part of companies understands the word and does not advertise their products in newspapers, media, online platforms that are unpleasant to the government. I didn't hear a case like that in my host hour. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] The last few days, too. Ladies and gentlemen, This law constitutes a violation of the freedom of the press and cannot be supported. There's only one thing about him: you have to take that back. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-11-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As there is still no pro-government speaker or candidate, at the moment Jobbik's group is concerned. Speaking in advance, Mr President Novák. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary proposed for the first time in 2009, the introduction of a tax on advertising, which would mainly hit multinational companies, the biggest grief of the opposition's Balliberal parties. However, this was not intended to impose another face, but, in fact, on the basis of the principle of "the polluter pays, " we wanted the costs of cultural pollution to be paid to those concerned, because unfortunately, the government party's proposal - the present one - differs from our ideas on several points. So I gave our basic philosophy briefly, and we had two drafts for the specific advertising tax. Our original plan was only a special tax on media service providers, which would have punished the less valuable and harmful ones with a higher tax rate on socially valuable and more useful content determined by objective criteria. In recent years, we have repeatedly proposed the introduction of advertising tax, which mainly affects multi-company companies. First, on October 25, 2010 Parliament voted off its proposal on Jobbik's advertising tax. L. Simon László himself voted against here in plenary on 25 October 2010, and he cannot say that he did not agree with the details of that, and therefore he was forced to vote no; as usual, the pro-government representatives voted off our proposals out of guts and unread, as it was actually a single sentence proposal presented in the debate on the media constitution. In the case of the bill on freedom of the press and fundamental rules on media content, we had a proposal to amend it so that - in a single sentence - " the special tax system on media content providers' income from advertising revenue will be dealt with by law by Parliament ". So we would have laid down in a law the need to levy the advertising tax, and the details of it could have been or could have been carried out in a separate dispute. After all, this right-wing amendment, which we wanted to make at the time, was met, without having been incorporated into the law at the time, but unfortunately it took a long time to do so. Even then, we have already justified the introduction of the so-called advertising tax by saying that the budget could first and foremost obtain a new source of income without being able to sabotage the Hungarian population, which is already on the verge of suffering. On the basis of the way in which we have already outlined the implementation method, media content providers could be encouraged to adopt programming principles that comply with the principles of the media constitution. So not only can the budget gain revenue, but also a kind of content regulation can be expected from an ad tax that Jobbik would introduce. Unfortunately, this was also voted out on 25 October 2010, this one sentence, and also in the later period. After all, about a year ago, the government published a draft advertising tax on its website. The national opposition, Jobbik, welcomed the government's perception after many years, although it was a bit painful that they were only willing to do so under the pressure of the EU, and Jobbik's proposal, representing one million Hungarians, had not been adopted earlier. Unfortunately, it's common, we've seen it often. For example, the same thing happened to the media law. In March 2011, the Parliament adopted EU amendments, some of which were previously tabled in vain as amendments here as representatives of Jobbik. I think that the cultural freedom fight of the Hungarian nation is part of the regulation of commercial media, especially the two large TV companies. Last year, they were alarmed by their withdrawal from our country, and today they are only lying - although also in an unbelievable way - that most viewers are being cut off from their attractive shows. However, even if ad absurdum were withdrawn, this would be a serious achievement, as it would open the way for high-quality television entertainment, including the production of historical Hungarian feature films and series. The increase in public media ratings would also lead to an increase in advertising revenues, which is why the government should not have backed away from the alarm of commercial media last year, since it was virtually or never submitted this draft law published on the government's website. As far as protests by the opposition's Balliberal parties are concerned, this basically means that they think that the Hungarian people on the brink of their tolerance should once again be squeezed. However, according to Jobbik's previous proposal, it would only provide so much relief in relation to the advertising tax on multi-company companies that advertisements that broadcast socially useful world images would be exempt from tax. For example, if, let's say, a yogurt advertisement doesn't present a single excuse, it doesn't even present a big family as a nuisance, but as an idyllic picture, then there is almost a social message of such an advert for basically commercial purposes, and so, let's say, it could be exempted from advertising tax. Unfortunately, this cannot be included in the proposal under this extraordinary procedure, so that we had three hours to submit amendments, and this is basically a different concept. It should also be recalled that last summer, on the last day of the extraordinary session, I spoke after the agenda demanding the introduction of the advertising tax, when the government seemed to back out of it, and Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, responded to this in an extremely unusual way, waiting for my post- Agenda address. There was already a growing suspicion that there might be very serious lobbying interests here, if it was considered necessary to respond to a post- Agenda address, which is not usually done at State Secretary level. Then he said to me in his reply, and I quote: " The Hungarian Government has now considered whether or not the introduction of this tax is necessary. The budget does not require the introduction of such a tax. " [[9.40]] I think that this is unacceptable, because a lot of proposals could not be put on the agenda here in Parliament for which they could refer to a lack of state resources. For example, the package of government proposals designed to remedy our country's biggest problem, the demographic disaster - to focus attention only on a package of proposals from their own circles, say Márius Révész, and not so many other constructive proposals - I think it is unacceptable that Mihály Varga's reason from a year ago is that we do not need any more budget revenue, because in fact we can no longer spend all the money that the central budget has received because of their blessed activities. Moreover, the advertising tax would be supported by a vast majority of voters, according to a representative survey by the Institute of Directions. [[L. Simon László:]] I am glad that L. Simon László is paying attention to this, and I am not hiding such information that we have received, as unfortunately we have not seen in the justification of the bill, although according to the house rules, the estimated socio-economic effects should be included in such a bill, even these surveys, which he referred to here in his presentation that these surveys have been carried out in the last few weeks, we do not know that we do not see the specific figures. I think it would have been fair to submit this, as I did last autumn, by submitting almost one in one of the government's proposals, I only changed the justification, so I submitted their own proposal, and there I brought it up as a justification. And the fact that, according to a representative survey by the Institute of Directions, more than twice as many people approve of the ad tax as they reject it is also remarkable because taxes are opposed by guts. So what we can see now is that they didn't want to introduce the multi-company advertising tax last year, the government backed out. Unfortunately, it seems that last year, when this was first raised, the bill only blackmailed the commercial media concerned to become even more government-friendly before the elections, and finally concluded a pact, Fidesz could increase its influence on TV2 without the acquisition by the company empire of Lajos Simicska, Zsolt Nyerges. Thus, it seems that Jobbik is waiting for the regulation of commercial media, as regards their legal violations, which have no consequences so far, because unfortunately, the Media Council also leaves the hundreds of law violations without consequences, which, by the way, sometimes come back from the annual reports of the Media Council, but still remain without consequences. So whatever social-destructive program or massively unbalanced news was broadcast, unfortunately, they have so far remained without consequences. I find it extremely deceptive to join forces and protest the media and business circles with significant influence, as their voices are only now being heard because of the advertising tax. Earlier, when, let us say, Europe's highest VAT rate was introduced in Hungary, or even though small people were humiliated, let us say, by the extremely high tax content of fuels, we never heard their voice, so, to put it mildly, it is not ethical, but rather false, this kind of protest that has been carried out here in a large coalition. In addition, they received a loophole in the present proposal - interestingly, they do not have much of an article about it - because the subjects are exempt up to half a billion dollars in turnover, so if they split up, say, for brothers with a turnover of HUF 490 million, they can easily get away with it, for example, on a territorial basis. We hope that this will not be so easy to achieve, but let's say Ringier and Axel Springer are not yet united, as I understand, the GVH still has to agree to this, although NMHH has already allowed unification. I wouldn't be surprised if, thanks to this bill, they didn't eventually unite, because this way they will pass the 20 billion-dollar top key and not separately. In fact, I do not think it is entirely impossible that this was one of the important reasons behind this proposal. As far as the details of this proposal are concerned, it is difficult to talk about it, since they have actually left three hours to submit amendments, and the Parliament suddenly decided that it was different from the normal procedure, and so it was actually three hours to submit amendments. We have introduced a very important one, because unfortunately, there are very few words about the introduction of the free Internet, and if the government had already formulated a somewhat demagogic idea and I think it would have been unprovoked to devote the revenue of advertising tax to school development - it is almost as demagogic as one of the Socialists' previous panel texts, the issue of incubators, so perhaps it would have been more demagogic than that if it had been used to develop incubators - but I think that this too is not technically justified, because it is a drop in the sea as far as school development is concerned. Then let us say a specific, accountable question - even in the area of school development - and this is the introduction of the free internet, as this could, for example, lead to the recovery of distance education. Therefore, as an amending proposal, we proposed that revenue from advertising tax should be used to free the basic level of retail internet service, as this expected HUF 5-10 billion would be enough to provide at least one basic, say, 1 gigabyte mobile internet package free of charge to all claimants in Hungary. Hungary has serious delays. If I look at the last NMHH report discussed here in Parliament - this refers to the year 2012 - then I can see that in the European Union Hungary, where the third lowest is mobile broadband penetration, i.e. the ratio of broadband mobile Internet users in Hungary is the third lowest in the EU on a regular basis, at least monthly. And that's okay. If you look at the prices, they're extremely high, even for the Westerners. So, in general, as we have seen, the prices of the European Union have come to us, wages have not; some are even worse, for example, in terms of internet access charges, since in Hungary the gross median of access is 54 euros, which is the sixth highest in the EU, more than twice the median price of the old Western Member States. In fact, in Denmark, the average fee is less than EUR 20, while the net average wage is above EUR 4 000, and in our case EUR 475 is more than 23 times the average Hungarian average price, the average price of internet use for Denmark. Obviously, this is the most extreme example of more than 23 times the cost of the Internet in Hungary than in Denmark, but it shows well that there is room for improvement, and I have made average comparisons here, that the price of the old Western Member States is more than twice the median price of access in Hungary. Obviously, it is not easy to compare different services here, but we can still look at a middle road in this respect. So it is much more expensive in international comparison, while the Internet is now at least as much a part of everyday living as the rest of the bills, which is why we would have liked this amendment to be adopted and the revenue from advertising tax will eventually place emphasis on the introduction of the free internet. Access to information is subject to Article 21. 20th century society [[The president's ringing the bell.]] at least so... I'm in the lead speaker's speech, so I might be able to do that for 30 minutes.
u2014-06-11-30	I suggest you don't argue with me.
u2014-06-11-31	No problem.
u2014-06-11-32	There's 15 minutes for the lead speaker's round, Congressman, and that's over. I'd be happy to give you time for a sentence, if you'd like.
u2014-06-11-33	It's okay, I'll continue in a next speech. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-34	It's okay. Dear Parliament, After the opposition speech, I would now give the floor to a pro-government speaker if he asked, but he does not ask. As he doesn't want it, I will continue to give the floor to the leader of the opposition. The lead speaker of the LMP, Mr András Schiffer, has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the introduction, I would like to make it clear that, in fact, despite the title of the bill before us, it is not a advertising tax, but a media tax. I put it this way because, if it were a proposal for a law on advertising tax, its aim would be to re-regulate the advertising market, compared to this, the aim of this bill is to redistribute the media market and to re-regulate the media market. It's a media tax because it doesn't involve advertising service providers, but media service providers. I would also like to state in the outset that the May Other Group of Politics will reject this bill, but I would like to make it clear that on very different grounds than the false left liberal opposition. [[9.50]] Dear Parliament, A advertising tax, which is not a media tax, may need and need Hungary. Hungary also needs it, and all societies in the world need it today because, in fact, the publicity that advertising, advertising, has had little to do with critical publicity today. It can also be said that over the past half century, the change in the structure of the social public has been synonymous with the evolution of the former critical public into an easily consumed market product. We have also seen that - citing Jürgen Habermas - reasoning and critical reasoning are transformed into a tendency towards consumption, and the association created by public communication is always divided into monotonous acts of isolation. Therefore, when the unpoliticised publicity of consumer culture absorbs political publicity that has become a referendum, or in other dimensions it transforms into an audience that consumes culture, the publicity that acquires the functions of advertising becomes an environment of political and economic influence, not political, depoliticized and seemingly privatised. This privatisation trend is effective from the fact that consumers are aware of it, because not only the world created by modern media is a virtual reality, but the integrity of the private sector is also illusory, and this illusion is being transferred to conditions that have long since destroyed its foundations, and secondly, they are applied to political facts to the extent that the public becomes the sphere of disclosure of individual life stories, wrote Jürgen Habermas decades ago. That is why we claim that the unpoliticised public in itself has nothing to do with freedom of the press. So the factual problem is that, in today's public, where advertising, the compulsions of consumer society, have transformed the public, in fact, the most accessible media have been depoliticised and contribute to the maintenance of a system that is designed to control the masses by debauching and banishing political content. It is necessary to face the fact that in global capitalism and global capitalism, consumer societies operate precisely in such a way as to expel critical potential from the public. For this reason, media that basically use advertising of commercial products, advertising of commercial services, today are not elements of critical social publicity. In fact, I go on, a system critic party has to point out at all times that this advertising market, this media market around the world today, is interested in maintaining the current direction of global capitalism, is interested in maintaining over-use, is interested in maintaining an unpoliticised public that controls the masses, prevents any rebellion. I would therefore like to draw a very clear line between the views of the LMP and, by the way, the criticisms expressed by the various other opposition forces and go further. It is not just that in consumer society the media, in fact advertising, has become a very effective means of controlling the masses. I would like to remind you that, for the first time after the change of regime, the idea of advertising tax was raised by green movements, specifically the Air Task Force. At the time, the Air Task Force recommended the introduction of advertising tax for many years, rather decades ago, in order to prevent over-use by such a means, and, on the one hand, to force advertisers to provide decent information to society and to provide fair information to the consumers by capital companies. The aim of the advertising tax in the concept of green movement would be precisely to mitigate the so-called negative externalities of the operation of global capitalism, i.e. the environmental and social damage at least if it is not able to eliminate it. Therefore, it is very important to distinguish between a advertising tax and a media tax. An ad tax, which really wants to curb over-eating, is an ad tax, which really serves the purpose of countering the negative environmental-social effects of the current functioning of global capitalism, and we can support it. At the time, for example, the Air Task Force pointed out that, let's say, a car ad never warns about the serious environmental and health consequences of motor vehicle transport, since it is obvious that car manufacturers do not care. Washing dust advertising never mentions the environmental damage caused by such products, in many cases, by permanent pollution of living water. For example, food advertisements never provide information on the specific damage that can be caused not only by eating a particular food drink in the human body living today, but also, where appropriate, in the future generation, where appropriate in the soil, in the various natural resources. At the same time, we would also like to make it clear that this bill, which lies before us, is not a media tax called advertising tax that restricts over-use, but designates the beneficiaries of over-use. What is our fundamental criticism of the bill, and because the LMP faction will vote no, that this concept, this bill, does not serve to cut back excess consumption. This bill is not intended to repel capital companies and try to mitigate the harmful socio-environmental effects of the current system; this bill is intended to designate the beneficiaries of over-use with a power word while maintaining the current level of over-use. Dear Parliament, I would like to add a few more elements in support of my statements or statements. On the one hand, it is very important that, while so far advertising tax concepts, which have been formulated by various parties or green movements, have always been aimed at advertising, advertising and advertising service providers, this bill makes the media service provider subject to tax, otherwise causing absurd situations in the internet press market, not least this regulatory technique gives broad scope to loopholes, the various loopholes. Secondly, over-use can effectively be limited by an advertising tax law if it is essentially aimed at profits. This bill aims at revenue and even tries to identify which capital companies will make a profit. From now on, the power goal is obvious, and it is not apparent at all how this bill will result in a restriction of over-use. Thirdly, it is also incomprehensible why the interim timing, why the exceptional urgent procedure. A tax law designed to create a still well-founded social impact is also a tax law. A new tax rate is usually introduced towards the end of the budget year, for the next budget year, even if it is not expected to receive a hundred billion dollars, only HUF 8-11 billion. Fourthly, the budgetary interest expressed by the new Super Minister, namely the purpose of the revenue generated by the advertising tax of HUF 8-11 billion, is, of course, perfectly ridiculous. János Lázár claimed that the revenue of the advertising tax would be used for educational purposes. Let's see how we're doing with the education budget over the years. In the last four years alone, public education has lost 200 billion forints. Since the reign of Bajnai Gordon in 2009, forints 80 billion have been withdrawn from higher education. According to LMP's election programme, for the next four years at least 700 billion HUF should be invested in education, the knowledge economy. [[10.00]] Compared to this, while taking him out faceless, wheelbarrows out of education, knowledge economy, budget money and narrowing down the channels of ascension, they claim that they want to use an 8-11 billion-dollar government revenue for educational purposes. Who do you think you're stupid? Don't be ridiculous. It is quite obvious that the revenue expected from the advertising tax is dwarfed by the constraints that the Orbán government - and its predecessors, the Bajnai and the Gyurcsány government - uses to hit and hit the knowledge economy. Dear Parliament, There are three fundamental aspects that make this bill impossible to support. A advertising tax - not a media tax, a advertising tax - has a place and has a place in regulation, in the Hungarian tax system, that Parliament prohibits government propaganda, as LMP has already demanded in several cases, bans the marketing and promotional spending of non-competitive state-owned municipal companies from manipulating the media market with MVM and Paks money. If you do not do so, on the one hand, certain service providers are subject to advertising tax and on the other hand, the State can designate the beneficiaries of over-use by means of government spending without necks. In this context, it is very important - we are actually at least 20 years late - that the law regulates the advertising policy of public and municipal companies. I must say that even a bad law in this area would be better than total unregulatedness. Secondly, this bill is not about sustainability aspects at all, we see no impact assessments. My former colleague Novak has already rightly asked where the impact calculations are according to the legislative law, in what areas this bill will have effects, and we do not see what purpose this advertising tax revenue will actually serve. When we talk about sustainability aspects, we also think about social sustainability. It is unclear how many jobs will disappear, how many well-trained young people will be banished abroad by the government, and we do not see how this tax, this new tax, has an impact on social advertising, so on public benefit. We fear that this new tax burden in this way, in this form, will banish precisely social advertising from large media, from high-achieving media. Finally, I would also like to say that as long as we can agree with a two-key advertising tax, the highest rate of which is 20 percent - and this was the case earlier on the government side - this current advertising tax concept is openly interfering with the competition of two commercial televisions, and this assumption is confirmed by yesterday's amendment proposal. We wouldn't have a problem if we had equal standards of commercial television for public service, for the benefit of the public interest. That's what we demanded in the media law debate, by the way. However, it is unacceptable that, for many times now, Fidesz-KDNP has appointed its favourite businesses in all markets because of its own power interests. Personalised legislation is unacceptable, it is unacceptable to try to interfere with the fight of two commercial players with one single legislative measure. Therefore, this proposal would be eligible if the public and municipal advertising policy were regulated, if it were to serve sustainability aspects and not be personalised. All in all, if we were to negotiate a advertising tax rather than a media one. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Pogácsás, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, The law before us caused a great storm and controversy. In addition, I think, and in the Fidesz fraction, we believe that they are deliberately trying to take the explanation of the bill in the very wrong direction, completely misinterpreting the original purpose of this legislation. It is a matter of opinion that HUF 10 billion in the Hungarian budget is little or much, but it is certain that HUF 10 billion is an extremely large sum in the public education budget of Hungarian small settlements. As mayor of a small town, I am well aware of the considerable effort the municipalities, the municipalities, have to make in order to raise resources to maintain and maintain high-quality local public culture, to ensure high-quality local public education. And obviously, there are even more difficult municipalities with less revenue. So all the revenue from advertising tax can be very helpful for Hungarian public education in rural areas, and it can be very helpful if we use it in a targeted way for the tasks that are, as a matter of fact, necessary and possible to use from media revenue. Several times it was suggested in the preliminary explanations and debates that the advertising tax itself would reduce the amount of advertising, thereby endangering the existence of commercial operators, commercial television or the sources of broadcasting there. I think that in itself this is a logical process which has been misdirected or misdirected, since the advertising tax itself is not the advertiser's burden. Obviously, those who want to advertise products continue to appear on the market at the same or similar intensity as before. The level of culture mediated by commercial television and commercial television, as well as the quality of programmes, have caused a great deal of debate. I believe that the past period proves that, in commercial television, programming itself, the construction and compilation of programmes went primarily towards revenue, and that it takes less account of the demands that we can rightly impose on Hungarian society against programming. Of course, this does not mean that the advertising tax will repel or regulate the stream of programming in any form. This is basically a budgetary instrument, which creates an opportunity, as I have said, to increase the revenue of public education tasks which, by the way, exist in the country, which must be carried out in the country. And I think that no one is arguing that in every settlement there is a need for the local community, the local society, to have a good quality and a good local space for public education. This income gives you the opportunity to do so. Some feared for small newspapers, smaller televisions, mediums with lower turnover. But if we read the bill with sufficient detail and accuracy, it is clear that, in the case of media serving small communities and producing smaller revenues, this advertising tax is indifferent, since in their case this law grants immunity or their taxation is not mentioned. Overall, I think that this bill can be misinterpreted in a number of ways with political, party policy goals. Obviously, investors who want to take their investment out of the media with as much profit as possible are insulted by this advertising tax, but we know very well that everyone has to pay taxes. The government has always undertaken and declared the need for all taxpayers to be involved in the tax collection as widely as possible, so that the tax to be collected can be reduced in optimal cases and thus ensure that the tax on labour and labour-type incomes is reduced. [[10.10]] Once again, it is understandable that those who are obliged to pay taxes in this case find it difficult to accept it or accept it with little enthusiasm. But I think that Hungarian society rightly expects everyone to share the same role in public burdens. I find it very unfortunate, by the way, that they are trying to create a mood by allowing the cessation of various, otherwise popular programmes or the interruption of sports broadcasts. I don't think it's good for anyone. It is obviously not good for society, it is obviously not good for the medium that does this, because in the long run, the media consumer will decide which medium will be preferred. In view of all this, the Fidesz faction believes that we need to make this legislation, we need to vote on this legislation, and the revenue of advertising tax in the budget will be an important item, which can help improve the conditions for public education in smaller communities. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-38	Thank you very much. As no other factions have applied for a speaker's speech, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Mr President Novak asked for a two-minute comment, Mr Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I am pleased that at least by the end of the main speakerial debate, the lead speaker of Fidesz has arrived, and perhaps he will participate in the remainder of the debate, though expected to be less. However, I regret that neither the national nor the representative of the Government wishes to respond for at least two minutes to the only proposal for an amendment to the opposition, which I have argued here for a long time. [[L. Simon László: We'll do it in the closing.]] It's not elegant to say in the closing word, which we can no longer respond to, even untruths that we can't clarify. Let me ask you for a debate. Please respect the fact that if a pro-government and opposition amendment proposal has been tabled and this is also a detailed debate here in fact, then let us have a substantive debate on this. Our only amendment is that the revenue from advertising tax should be used to make the basic level of retail internet service free. So we would like to introduce the free internet in Hungary. This is extremely necessary. And in school development, there's a drop of support in the sea, and I think it's a little demagogic. If we look at this part, which could also mean distance learning, if we look at it as school development, then we can see the justification for this. Somewhere I ended up having access to information in the 21st century. It is at least as essential as heating or bathing water. Therefore, Jobbik considers wider internet access to be important both in order to achieve balanced information, because unfortunately it is only a horseback in the media constitution, it does not enforce balanced information from the Media Council, and we expect the free, subject-matter Internet service to boost teleworking, distance learning, or even the generalization of electronic administration. Therefore, it is necessary to face the fact that Hungary has the third lowest share of regular users of broadband mobile internet, and these charges account for more than twice the internet charges of Western EU Member States in Hungary. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-40	Thank you very much. He asked for a two-minute speech, Mr Bánki Erik, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in the speech of my fellow Member Tibor Pogácsás and briefly respond to what has been said there. My fellow Member mentioned that there would be a great need for quality programming and the presentation of programmes on television that promote the development of children's values or the improvement of the values of adults. In fact, my fellow Member mentioned the ominous sports broadcast when the World Championship Qualifier match between the Hungarian and Slovenian handball team was interrupted by the RTL at the last minute, referring to the fact that there will be an extremely important event, a lottery draw, and obviously there will be commercials to be made. I think that's unacceptable. A sporting event followed by hundreds of thousands of viewers, which, by the way, determines the future world championship and Olympic performance of Hungary's most successful team sport, interrupting such a program at its last minute, I think it proves that there are a lot of problems in the field of media service. And I think that this is just a very bad moment, an unfortunate solution that actually confirms that there are still plenty of delays and there is plenty of work to be done in this area. So I think this is unacceptable. Hungarian sports have such value and prestige, and handball, if you look at this year alone, has such results that Győr's team won the Champions League, the Szeged man's handball team won the European League. In such a case, it is unacceptable and unacceptable to interrupt such mediation. I would also like to protest against such activities, such solutions. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-42	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, asked for a two-minute comment. Here.
u2014-06-11-43	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I have a very ungrateful task, because I agree with pretty much everyone, but I don't really agree with anyone. I agree with Fides, because I think there is a need for advertising tax, but I completely disagree with the need to impose all kinds of taxes and all kinds of traffic at all. Because, as my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, said, it is likely that tax burdens should be imposed on products that are harmful to the environment, to health, and to advertising products which have an adverse impact on society, which cause social security or any other expense to the public. So that's not the way to approach it. I also agree with Jobbik, because I believe that there is indeed cultural pollution and that there really is a need for instruments to reduce cultural pollution. At this level, however, the overall support for the Internet is quite shared. I mean, since I've been a politician, I've looked at that Internet a few times, and I can see there's a lot of dirt on it. So, if we are to reduce cultural pollution, it is not certain that the full use of the Internet is an appropriate tool for this. And I agree with the MSZP that we must not vote in favour of this law. At the same time, I think that freedom of the press alone is not a good reason for not having to vote. I am basically pro-advertising, and I think that it is not income that must be taxed, but tax types and types of consumption. MEP L. Simon László said that they are destructive, that these broadcasters are dangerous to communities, and therefore they do not directly affect the freedom of the press, but only have a negative impact on mass radiation harmful to culture. Overall, if this is an important motivation, then this is in stark contrast to what Minister Mihály Varga said, who began his speech by saying how much the budget needs 8 billion forints and how important this revenue is. Some of Mr Pintér's colleagues would now be reaching for a baton when they are in the same group when they set a completely different reason. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-11-44	Mr István Józsa, MSZP asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bánki Erik has clearly demonstrated that what you're practicing here is the club, or should I say, I just wouldn't want you to misunderstand the policy of the club. You don't like the attitude of RTL, so bang, you're gonna get hit with a multibillion-dollar media tax. So when the author says - who is now busy with his little electronic phone and does not hear what is in the House because it is plugged in; it is fortunate that he is not the Martian who thinks he is putting something else here - he says that there is freedom of the press in Hungary, because there could be an empty page. However, this is an important distortion in the assessment of freedom of the press. Because the fact that a private publication can still do that seems to bother them, and that is what they consider to be a manifestation of freedom of the press. So, when we see the beginning of an Origo, there is a writing about the two million HUF hotel account of János Lázár, and we see the output of the editor disappearing, and then they deny that nothing happened in the process, so please call it a Pharisee attitude. [[10.20]] So what you have presented here is nothing more than a harsh, brutal intervention in the media's operation, and if you recall your comment before the agenda, Congressman, when you praised the Minister for Economic Affairs and its results, it is clear from this that the economy, if it split like this, could leave the media area in peace, and it is not the tax revenue that moves you, but the political influence that clearly expressed your motive. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-46	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, According to the house rules, one speech per faction is possible in each two-minute circle. I see that many of you have asked for a word from factions where one of your partners has already asked for a word, and I can give you the floor in the next round. It is now up to those who have asked for the normal word, Mr President, to speak with the Members. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to deal relatively briefly with budgetary issues, public burdens and content issues. The reason why we have a tax law before us in the middle of the year is, of course, easy to justify on the part of the governing party, but I also know the reason why I should help my fellow Member Schiffer with this. If this law had come before us in the framework of normal tax laws and in the framework of the normal budgetary debate at the end of the year or at the beginning of the year, it would have meant that we had the opportunity to debate it, we had the opportunity to discuss the situation of education - in bad times, thanks to Rose Hoffmann - and we could talk about the content of this tax. The reason that we are discussing here in a few hours is that budget law and tax law cannot be negotiated in this House under an extraordinary or accelerated procedure - yet, I add some fear. Therefore, the justification that there are budgetary reasons for the referral here is not true, the truth is that the representatives of the pro-government side would like us to go through the procedure of this penalty tax as quickly as possible and it could start to work. Two, equal opportunities. You are very happy to refer to equal opportunities and to public burdens, and you think that public burdens can be achieved by taxing people whom we are targeting, preferably twice; because these companies are otherwise companies, and if they are profitable, they pay taxes. This situation is exactly like taxing the baker on his gain and taxing on the flour he buys for the bread, because in some way we want to make more money from his work. I think it is very Pharisee to refer to equal opportunities, especially public burdens, that if they invent new taxes as punishment for companies, and they think it is right that if the leaders of these companies bring home millions with 16% taxation, millions will be taken home as dividends with 16% taxation. Now, that's not public cargo. Real public burdens are the MSZP's proposal, which concerns the fact that these items should be subject to a high tax rate, in particular income and dividends from work from EU and domestic sources and carried out by businesses. And finally, the last question: you have, unfortunately, begun to mix into this tax the issue of the possibility of regulating matters in substance with the tax, regulating advertising in substance, and regulating the activities of commercial media in substance. No misunderstanding, I myself believe that commercial media - respect for a very, very small number of exceptions - are working with soul-breaking, sub-body humor and, as far as possible, benefit from awareness-raising, but not value-creating cases, and that is wrong, but, honourable Members, this is a regulatory issue. The fact that people don't watch the Victory show is a regulatory issue, not a tax issue. The fact that if we tax these media, and especially with advertising tax, they will not change their content, they will not benefit the public. Therefore, I would like to close by saying that this proves very well that this is a punishment for this tax, a distortion of competition, not to say that it is revenge, but it is definitely an intervention in the affairs of the media world which you do not like on the one hand, and, on the other hand, you should be given more support. And let's put it this way: RTL Club, TV2, there's nothing else. I note that if we looked at it from a budgetary point of view, and if they had done so wisely, it would have been possible to make more profit both in terms of content and in terms of budget. Mr President, I would like to thank you for the floor, although I must say quite frankly that, compared to my fellow Member, Józsa, I am also offended by the lack of interest of the rapporteur in this debate. [[L. Simon László is on the phone.]] But I think that there will be an opportunity, on the basis of two minutes, to draw your attention to the debate in some way. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-48	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi has spoken, Jobbik. You have the floor and the opportunity, please.
u2014-06-11-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I am honored that perhaps the author will hear my words, though who knows, because he has put the earphones back in his ear. So I'd like to say two things. One is that Congressman Sallai said that he wouldn't support the Internet because of the amount of dirt on it. Yes, that is true, there is a lot of dirt on the Internet, but I think that the Internet is already an essential tool for people in today's world, because there are a lot of useful things to use the Internet through the Internet and the Internet to talk only about distance learning, job search, or simply that you can find information about news and everything else in a much wider spectrum. So, in my opinion, this would be an eligible proposal, submitted by the President of Novak, so that today all people in Hungary can access the Internet, because unfortunately, in this economic situation, there are areas in this country, there are people in this country who want to use the Internet, and they want to reach the opportunities provided by the Internet, but they cannot afford it, so that would be a great help. The other, in response to Erik Bánki's speech: the Member has already talked about much deeper things than whether we should now impose or not a tax on advertising. I have to agree that, yes, there should be some level of involvement in programming policy in Hungary. And the question arises here: does this limit media freedom, or does it limit it, if it raises the word of politics on matters that are not relevant to commercial televisions, for example. But we could speak in the same way - if Erik Bánki has already set the example of sport - that for several years there has been an unsolved problem, for example, that 50 percent of the population in Hungary can't watch high-spectrum BL matches, because there are various debates about the broadcasting of broadcasts, and these matches are broadcast by TV stations, for example, which are not to be held here in Hungary. Should we be involved in this conflict at a time like this? I think it should have been said a long time ago because it would be in the best interests of the people to be able to watch, say, the show that he wants. So what I am saying is that there are cases where we do not restrict the freedom of the press and we are of benefit to Hungary, and we benefit people when we interfere in certain programming policies, but I have to agree that this is primarily a regulatory issue. So let us not stop here at the advertising tax, but, through a more comprehensive regulatory procedure, with various consultations, implement a law that actually regulates content that is not correct and is not relevant for media in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-50	Thank you very much. In the absence of a government opposition, I am once again giving the floor to an opposition representative. Congressman Zoltán Lukács, MSZP, please.
u2014-06-11-51	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. This debate has certainly been good at finding out that a person who thinks that this law is about obtaining tax revenues is in a very bad way. It is not that this amount of tax revenue is divided or multiplied on the Hungarian budget, we know exactly the situation of the Hungarian budget, and even the fact that one week someone stands up and says that they are going to spend it on schools, they said today that they are going to spend it on rural cultural houses - you probably do not know exactly what they are going to spend it on, and that is not the point. [[10.30]] This has a double purpose. And which is the main goal and which is the consequence, I can't tell you more accurately. One of the goals is, in any case, what is the underlying cause of the struggle of power in the economic lunar station in Fidesz and around Fidesz, which is also the projection of this law. We know exactly, because they themselves have told us that leading Fidesz politicians have revealed in various newspapers and various Internet portals that this story is practically about the Prime Minister wanting to show who the master is at the house; and that the Oligarchs created by him, who have received very, very many tens and hundreds of billions over the past period, want to establish a point of alignment. And since they are speaking more freely against him in the hands of their vast and growing wealth, he now wants to clean up around the Simicska-Nerges-Liskay-Fonyó empire, because in the last year only around 8 billion forints of dividends were taken out of advertising, and at that time we were just looking at this market. This is one of the reasons why this law exists. The other reason, of course, is what we are talking about, and it has been confirmed by today's debate, a kind of punishment for psychics who do not dance the way the government whistles, who still dare to give real news, and still have the idea that they are able to work on the Hungarian market in some way not under party influence. Once again, that is the main reason and the consequence, or that is the main reason and the consequence or the side effect, I do not know, but these are about the two aims of this law and that this has been submitted here. I believe that the approaches that we are discussing here about media content are also completely flawed, ladies and gentlemen. If we want to debate media content, we need to submit a law or organise a debate day when we can otherwise debate media content regulation here in the House. This is the advertising law - it's called the advertising law. In fact, if we're really serious about this being a advertising law, it wouldn't have anything to do with the regulation of media content, by the way. If you talk about media content regulation in the context of a advertising law, you acknowledge that it is not a advertising law, but that you want to intervene in the content of the media under advertising law. Then it must be said that we would like to create a new law on media regulation, to be brought before the House, and then, for a long time, not giving a three-hour opportunity to allow people or political forces to make or submit proposals at all, but to leave time properly, to discuss how they would otherwise be able to regulate it properly, then such a law must be created. But now that we're bringing in media regulation in this advertising law, I think there's not a lot of bottoms in this. By the way, I would like to add that whoever says that this will make the content better or that content regulation better, I would like to say that it is sitting completely the other way around. This will create a much worse situation in the media, by the way. On the one hand, a lot of companies can put their headquarters outside Hungary and broadcast them to Hungary, and on the other hand, despite the fact that those who broadcast more than 50 percent of Hungarian content from abroad to Hungary will be able to do whatever they want to do with those who sat here in the previous cycle and discussed, for example, the two-year report of the ORTT, for example, the media content for a long period of hours, they know that unfortunately, there is nothing to do today with the media service providers whose headquarters are outside, the regulations are there, the taxes are paid there, and the transmission is broadcast to Hungary. For example, Cool TV came out at the time - we can't do anything about it, even if we put it in this law. If that's the case - I'll say it again - it's a very real problem. Anyway, we're looking at it from a lot of places. It is also a very interesting question of who thinks what is worth and who doesn't think what is worth, who says what is cultural pollution and who doesn't. I think that only political parties cannot decide this in a normal country, but political parties must also have a say, and this must be decided in a much broader social context, but then let me go back there again so that they can put such a regulation in here instead of hiding it as a advertising tax. I don't understand why they put this in there, and the problem is that I understand why they put it in there. If we look at which company they belonged in the last two election cycles, the posters that you have filled with your own billboards worth billions and are removed from the rules of taxation, then again, only Mr Simicska's name can come to all of us, who, by the way, owns 70 percent of the advertising posters along with his associates. It is also an interesting issue when these taxes are set on the basis of turnover. This is completely false, because we know that there are companies with a high turnover in this situation, but also in recent years, they have not been able to generate profits or even produce minus, so these companies have a high turnover, they have not been able to produce extra, but they will still be taxed. Then there are companies who didn't have to do much for high sales, because if we look at the location of government ads, which media has a lot of government advertising - I'm looking at online media, like public television and other printed media - then we have to see that the circle that took a huge part of government and state ads is very well defined. And now we can talk about state companies, Posta, MVM, and so on, and so on; many, many billions are being spent on this, but the expected revenue of 8-10 billion is also being dwarfed by this law. So, ladies and gentlemen, if you really thought that we really needed such a law in this, then we wouldn't have opposed it either, but then we should have given us a normal time to discuss this, to argue about what profit or revenue we are going to impose on it, and how it should be taxed at all. We would have had suggestions, and we wouldn't have been against it, but what's happening again is that you brought something, shove it down everyone's throats, and make a meaningful debate impossible. That's why you can't be in this country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] conduct a normal political debate, not even in this case. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-52	Thank you very much. Congressman András Schiffer asked for the floor in normal motion, LMP. Then you'll be able to make two-minute comments. Congressman Schiffer now has the opportunity.
u2014-06-11-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to make it clear then why we believe that this law is not, in fact, an attack on the freedom of the press in the first place; why exactly do we think that the most effective attack on freedom of the press has started over the last decades precisely on the part of global companies, the large global advertising market. Yeah, we think that the change in the structure of the public that made the media, the public, perfectly edible, commercial, that's the turn that practically destroyed the freedom of the press, the critical publicity, in the original sense of the word. In our view, freedom of the press and critical publicity can be discussed in the original sense of the word if well-informed citizens can exchange views with the help of the media. This is not only an illusion in Hungary in today's world. In addition, I said that large companies that generate most of the advertising revenue were against the fact that the truth would be revealed. They are not interested in providing people with real information about the harmful social and environmental effects of the products and services they offer. What, though, is our problem with this bill? That this bill, tabled by our fellow Member L. Simon, does not liberate the public, does not liberate the public from commercialisation, does not liberate the public from the pressure of large companies, but says that in a situation where the commercial public debauchs the entire public, it leaves people in a lack of information, and on the other hand we are putting very harsh government propaganda on people's necks. That's the thing. Therefore, until the ban on advertising of public municipal companies is regulated, until the anti-poor activities of the CF are regulated, until government propaganda is banned, there is no public release. And one more thing. [[10.40]] As long as these keys are hacked in such a way that one commercial television is exactly the beneficiary of this regulation, while the other commercial television may easily give more than three quarters of the expected advertising revenue, it is not that you want to provide people with real information, it is not that you would want increased public service - otherwise you would do so correctly - to require commercial media; it is that you are taking advantage of the state that has been created by the changes in the structure of the public over the last decades and that you want to appoint the recipients of over-use. They want to appoint the beneficiaries of over-use in order to be part of the situation where the masses can be controlled through the commercial public. You're terrified that if people get real information, if there's decent publicity, you can expose your lies. If it were not so, my fellow Member, Mr Simon, then you would also demand that the advertising policy of public and municipal companies be regulated by law and even put forward such a bill. If this were not the political will, they would be measured on an equal footing and would weigh down on competing commercial businesses of the same type. This is not what they do, and we do not see the effects of the impact of this law, the restrictive effect it will have on social advertising. Not least, we also have to face the unfortunate situation that, due to the changes in the structure of the public, the little substance that we find today in commercial television, in radio, has also been chained to it by the advertising industry. So to rub it so that we do not assess the effects of this tax, if any, on the remaining content, political content, is not possible. These impact assessments have either not been carried out, or if they have been carried out, they are being kept secret from Parliament and hidden from people. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-54	Thank you very much. Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik. Here.
u2014-06-11-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me draw attention to another aspect. This is nothing more than the predictability of the tax system when introducing a new tax or extending a tax. The government, when it came to power in 2010, promised to close the tax system within a very short period of time, whereas the last four years were nothing more than that the government made the Hungarian business environment unpredictable and risky for companies by introducing new taxes and converting existing taxes. It is clear that Hungary is a risky business environment for a company in this situation, since not only one sector has been affected by these transformations, but in many sectors the state has constantly distorted the relations and distorted competition processes in this way. Now it's time for another sector. And I just want to remind you of the failure four years ago, with Jobbik supporting the advertising tax that the government caused with the then transformations - what happened then? TV companies have been taxed, in a very similar way, as now, and four commercial TV companies, as I said at the plenary session, have moved from Hungary to the Czech Republic, started to supply, and started to employ people from there. He paid taxes there because the Hungarian business environment was uncompetitive against foreigners. And I'm afraid the same thing will happen again with this unthinkable tax conversion. In 2010, I told you exactly what the consequences would be, and we can see now that Hungary is going to be at a competitive disadvantage on the media market. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-11-56	Thank you very much. This time, Congressman Schiffer asked for a two-minute session. [[Dr. András Schiffer is shaking his head.]] You don't want to take the chance, I see. Then we'll return to the normal speaking session, and I'll give the floor to Congressman Novak, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-57	Thank you for the floor. I continue to regret that the national and government do not take part in the debate, but that, by abusing the possibility given by the closing word, they wish to react, even by saying false things, when we are no longer able to reciprocate, even though there is a substantive debate, even if it is pushed into a time frame, contrary to the normal practice of house rules, it would mean that we are responding to each other in the debate. They don't give me the chance, so I'm trying to read from the look on your face what you're going to say. When I said that in the present proposal a loophole could mean that the subjects would be exempt from tax up to half a billion dollars' turnover, i.e. they could take away the current ones for Brothers with a turnover of HUF 490 million, for example, on a territorial basis, and they could get away with it, then L. Simon László squinted as a nationalist, or I saw some kind of a grievance that this would not be the case at all. Yeah, well, small companies can do that. Obviously, at an RTL, let's say we can't, because the right to provide media services is owned by the legal entity, but for example, Sanoma will tear the company apart, and there's a good chance that Ringier and Axel Springer will also. Although it is also true that yesterday's pro-government amendment, which rewards seemingly loss-making media, results in the fact that it actually becomes somewhat pointless because everyone will try to be loss-making, at least apparently, because it is not a coincidence that it can run loss-making here for years, let's say, a TV2, this is not obviously a charity. So if it weren't really worth it to them, it wouldn't have worked at a loss. So here we see tax avoidance techniques, we can almost call these practices tax evasion, against which the government is unable to act effectively, as these companies seem to be operating at a loss. Thus, they will be interested in this in the future, so that they can play this out and pay as little tax as possible. But in particular, I would like to continue to find out why the introduction of the free internet is not supported. Why was the only opposition amendment voted down? After all, I mentioned the example of Denmark, where, if you look at the income situation, you can see that the internet usage fee in Hungary is 23 times higher than in Denmark. So we complain not because it is 10-20 percent cheaper in Denmark, but the fee for internet use in Hungary is 2200 percent more expensive than in Denmark, if we also take into account income conditions, the average income. However, a price difference of 2,200 per cent in the European Union, which in principle promotes equality, I think, is a good reason for the government to finally take action in Hungary in order to make Internet use more general. In particular, if the third lowest proportion of regular broadband mobile users in the EU is in Hungary. I would expect your answer to these statistical NMHH data, whether they are finally willing to introduce the free internet, which could indeed be a kind of school development, which we have seen here at government level, so that this advertising tax can be more easily accepted. But then let us say a clearly accountable area, where there will be not a drop in the sea, these few billion forints, but from which this can be achieved. After all, out of this 5-10 billion forints a basic free internet service can be achieved, and there are a lot of reasons why this is in their interest even for Internet service providers, since those who are introduced into the world of the Internet, with only one basic service, can easily enjoy subscription to a larger internet package. So I think that, by the way, the government would be in a very good negotiating position with mobile operators, if we were talking about, say, mobile internet, but generally with Internet providers, whatever way it intends to resolve the introduction of free internet. Although basically we recommend mobile services because it can offer a comprehensive, uniform solution with 3G 4G technologies in rural areas that are less remote from the internet point of view. So we are looking forward to the government's response to whether they are willing to finance the introduction of the free internet from the advertising tax. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-11-58	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek asked for the floor, LMP. Here.
u2014-06-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, At least now I've seen what button to push, because I just ruined it with that two-minute guy. So I'm sorry I'm still learning this. I'll pick up where I left off. In the introduction of Mr László L. Simon, it has also been said that those who earn more income have to take on more of the financing of public tasks, and therefore this proposal strengthens social justice and burden-sharing. If I understand correctly, that's what's been said. [[10.50]] This is strange for me because, always waiting for consistency, in the argument of a single-key tax, we heard exactly the opposite arguments as to why they were not needed, and therefore I thought it was strange that the government would want to implement a more progressive system here with this tax. Mr Simon also said that many people are asking why now, since it has already been mentioned for eleven years, and we have certainly been talking about it here in the walls of the House for eighteen years, that it is necessary to do so. For my part, I am not asking why now, but why so, so why in this - I do not know what it is called - in the extraordinary, very fast or emergency procedure, when, with immediate effect, it is not possible to set normal timeframes, why it cannot be discussed normally, in case there are some proposals that might improve. So it's this extraordinary speed that's more disturbing. He also mentioned that the reason why broadcasters have to take on extra charges is because banks are also taking on extra burdens. I do not know if this is a commitment when we impose taxes on them and say that it is mandatory to pay them. So it's the application of this word "contribution " that I think is a little strange here. And you also liked to say that critical media do not fall victim to the tax because they are not included. Yes, that is what we see, so the Prime Minister will arrange for other means, Kehi and such, so that critical media will no longer fall into this. So, overall, it doesn't calm me down. So, overall, by the principle of the law itself, that there should be a tax on advertising, I continue to maintain that I can agree, and I continue to say that all that is harmful to society is encouraging consumption that can cause national harm, harm to health, have a social impact, should be taxed, but it is precisely this proposal that does not filter this out, what effect it has yet, and that is why I cannot accept this as a good thing. In the case of small town mayors, Congressman Tibor Pogácsás talked about how much money is and how much it matters. I fully agree with this, and I also think that there are a lot of good things that could be spent on, but I always see that when you have to generate revenue, you get poor, starving children coming right away, crashing schools and some crisis management when you have to spend, and then stadiums and luxurious investments are built, and at that moment, the use of resources is going to be different. It is therefore difficult for me to accept this argument, because I acknowledge that it would be good to use it, and I would like to see as much tax forints as possible translated for purposes such as those which you have spoken of, but that is why new taxes should be imposed, because this is not the case for a large part of public resources. With a few sentences, I would like to respond to Congressman György Szilágyi. My apologies, Congressman, I didn't mean to, so it's a misunderstanding that I wanted to judge the Internet. On the basis of such a principle, what you were able to say about the good goals it could serve in distance learning and such, broadcasters could also help with good goals on the basis of such a principle, but they do not necessarily do so. So what could be a good goal, unfortunately, does not mean that, but, as I said, I am not anti-Internet myself, so make no mistake, I just wanted to respond to the amendment that there is also a risk that you call cultural pollution. But, by the way, I think we should not disagree with each other, although at least we can argue with each other that if others don't talk to us anymore, so it's good that we can at least react to each other. All in all, I wanted to conclude by saying that we have seen in recent years and in previous governments that unfair, excessive tax burdens are always an incentive to escape from society. Mr President Novak has already referred to this in part, that it is possible to find the system here, the solution, that it will be possible to avoid such a system of taxation. In my opinion, because the regulation is not well thought out, it has not gone around enough, it can very much shift some of the broadcasters towards the black economy, and partly by means of what Mr President Novak said, whether it is divided into smaller ones, or if the advertising is implemented as a service, so to make... I would like to draw attention to the fact that legal certainty could be created with a fairer tax system and a fairer tax rate, and that it could be achieved by achieving a more compliant and tax-paying attitude in society, rather than with one that is clearly adopted against society. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-60	Thank you very much. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat is entitled to the floor, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-61	Mr President, Dear House, We come to the apparent end of a lengthy process in the debate in which Fidesz-KDNP does not really participate, although it tries to squeeze through the House what it has put before us in one day, or at the last minute a little diluted and receding proposal, which may be a little less meaningful. However, it can be seen that there have been earlier ideas, such as the 3 percent advertising tax proposed by the trade unions at one of the meetings in 2008, due to the aggressive credit policy of banks and, where appropriate, to the aggressive policy of fast-lending companies today, when the 3-percent advertising tax was proposed to be collected from ordering companies and the advertiser from online press products, so not in such a general way. Perhaps this would have been a path to follow and be incorporated, but the point is that the harmful, metastatic effects of which in many cases the damage to society is very difficult to measure could and should indeed have been taxed. From this point of view, it is therefore absolutely incomprehensible that the withdrawal that was taken at the last moment, yesterday, by the pro-government representatives. The justifications by which they defend these similar steps are quite amazing, such as the fact that it is not possible to watch a movie normally because they constantly put advertising in it, while during the debate of the 2010 Media Act and by which they themselves gave in to the pressure of commercial televisions by making product placement easier, by making the packaging of advertising blocks easier, and the fact that it is a matter of substance in the first place. So when you're hovering about the possible taxing of online companies, you're trying to get your hands on the last free press segment. It is not the taxation of commercial televisions that is the problem in this regard - [[Sneeze.]] We speak the truth - but with the withdrawal at the last minute, it is perfectly unacceptable to tax Facebook ads and Google ads in Hungary. On the other hand, what is your problem with freeing broadband internet access, which would be a perfectly logical step in the specific media conditions in Hungary, really deserves an answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-62	Thank you. I don't see any more commentaries or applications. I'll see if there's a candidate. Yes, at the expense of the time frame, Mr Schiffer is entitled to the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to one more remark, which may have been made by our fellow Member, Mr Volner, on the opposition side, as an additional argument. For a moment, without going into the substance of the bill, I think we should also consider, first of all, the Minister of National Economy, that at the time, in June 2010, when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here led to the 29 points on the pulpit, he announced that the tax system would be simplified in Hungary. Of course, there is no beer salad, and the tax system has not been simplified. Of course, sectoral taxes can and should be imposed, but what our fellow Member has pointed out is that whatever we think about advertising tax or media tax, predictability is an essential element of all economic policies. In Hungary, Hungarian economic policy has everything, but there is no predictability. When a large number of taxes can be imposed during the year, moreover, this tax is levied by openly granting discounts or crowding out market players, it is not possible to talk about predictability. Once again, I would like to emphasise that a draft advertising tax that counts with two keys, a 1 per cent band and a 20 per cent band can be agreed. Overtaxation and when specifically taxed on an actor by over 40 percent, beyond the fact that it openly conveys the convenience of the state, it is also concerned that such a tax becomes counterproductive. But I would like to say again at the end of this debate: the LMP is essentially missing three things, beyond the fact that we are not talking about advertising, we are talking about media taxation, so we are talking about the repression of media players. On the one hand, an advertising tax is aimed at the fact that the State does not have the possibility to designate beneficiaries of over-use, which would require strict banning of government propaganda and the advertising of state monopoly companies and legal regulation of the advertising policy of public and municipal companies. Secondly, we need sustainability considerations, a clear impact assessment of the impact it has on jobs, the impact it has on social advertising, and the impact this law has on advertising habits, which is lacking. [[11.00]] Thirdly, you can't be personalized, even with a good idea. [[Michael Varga sneezes.]] - Cheers, Minister - to make a law. Since these conditions do not exist, this law cannot be supported, this law is not about reducing over-use, but about assigning beneficiaries of over-use. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-64	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] No. Dear Parliament, The consolidated debate is now closed. I will now ask Congressman L. Simon László if he wishes to react. You have ten minutes, Congressman, to respond to what has been said.
u2014-06-11-65	I could have asked for time for a proper speech, and then I would have spoken a little more, but I would have tried to squeeze it into ten minutes. In addition, I am once again in the unpleasant situation that those who have made a substantial criticism of the Socialist Group here in a longer speech are no longer interested in closing, and they have left. So I myself am uncertain whether there is any point in responding to the suggestion of Agnes Kunhalmi in such a situation. I have honoured all my fellow Members by listening to this. I reassure Mr Szilágyi that when I had earphones in one ear, I heard what he said with the other, so I can focus on two places at once. I'm gonna try to make a difference on a few things. I have already responded to the question of the free press in the introduction to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi, I can say... Now, the information has come to Mr Szilágyi, it is good that Congressman Novák sent it - with a small phase delay - and he has no earphones in his ear, but he cannot listen... [[György Szilágyi: I'm going to a press conference.]] I have the floor, Congressman. I have the floor. [[György Szilágyi: I'm going to give a press conference.]] I'd like to warn you that I have the floor. [[György Szilágyi: It is announced for eleven, I hold a press conference. I wish you good work. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, tell the Member to let me unfold. [[Defiance.]]
u2014-06-11-66	Thank you, and I will let you know when I see that the Member is no longer able to unfold, I see for now that he can unfold.
u2014-06-11-67	Thank you very much, but I'm running out of time.
u2014-06-11-68	Congressman, open up.
u2014-06-11-69	Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi, leaving: I wish you good work!]] Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi said that they would not limit the free flow of information in the age of the Internet. He sent us a message to acknowledge that whatever we do, we won't be able to limit it. I'm gonna say again quietly that we don't have that intention, and we're not stupid. We know this without Agnes Kunhalmi. We know precisely that the Internet today offers a freedom of opinion which, by the way, by means of policy, is, on the one hand, indeterminate and, on the other hand, should not be restricted. To suggest that we put businesses in jeopardy and put them to loss, as you said, if I have written them correctly, I can tell Congresswoman Kunhalmi that, come on, read the detailed study of Creative Online on the operation of the Hungarian bonus system. Come on, look at how the big media service providers return 10-15-20 percent commission, let's call it that, as they call it, bonus fee for the media companies that place advertisements and see how this whole market works and what actually threatens fair competition here in Hungary. What I was curious about, however, was what the congresswoman thought when she said that the viewers would pay, as prices would rise. What will the viewers pay? Will it be more expensive for Rudi Túró to be hit by advertising taxes, or by the way, at UPC or at Telekom, at these well-known Hungarian companies - in the minutes we will write this in quotes, i.e. UPC or Telekom - and then the service fees will be higher because of the advertising tax? I think that we should consider what you were thinking, Congresswoman, how you will pass this on to the viewers. I would not particularly like to respond to the fact that it narrows down the public spaces. I think that the congresswoman should consider what I said yesterday at the Legislative Committee that there are media players who are now stars and, by the way, are running them from money that should be used in their commitment to the media authority to produce intelligent Hungarian television programmes and films. Among them are stars who, by the way, have been on the list of tax debtors exceeding HUF 10 million for a long time now. It would be worth considering why such people are being run as stars in Hungary, how much income they have gained if they owe more than HUF 10 million in taxes as individuals, and if their high-quality intellectual debate - which is obviously not worth the speeches and quotations of Congressman Schiffer's Habermas - has to be consumed by the Hungarian people on commercial televisions, how much is this a question of freedom of the press? How much does it relate to the public criteria that the congresswoman spoke about? Congresswoman Kunhalmi also mentioned 78 billion forints of public media. Look at the budget, and then it turns out that it is the entire Hungarian public media system, including the Media Council, the NMHH, including the Hungarian Telegram Office, that is, it is all being used to finance it, and if, let's say, the socialists hadn't done the Kunigunda Street building so fantasticly before 2010, and the Hungarian taxpayers shouldn't have been moaning about it for many years, then the Hungarian public media system wouldn't have cost that much. I don't think you should look into that. It's not that big a job. Congressman Burány, it is a pity you weren't here on my expozee, because then you didn't tell me everything you were going to tell me, or at least you're going to tell me half of it, so everything you've said about half the stadium, I've responded in detail. I also told you yesterday at the committee meeting that I think it is contempt for people to think that we are playing half stadiums and say that this is not a great resource for the budget. Others have said so here that this is not a significant money, that it is not worth taking on such conflicts. I think there is a need for conflict and a need to strengthen the revenue side of the budget. I would also like to inform the Member that I have read very interesting studies in recent days on advertising and placement practices in socialist government media between 2002 and 2010. I call your attention quietly and carefully, say, to the fate of conservative right-wing newspapers and other organs that have ceased in the last twenty years, and how important they felt on the left, otherwise, after forty years of socialist overweight and, by the way, after the privately privatized county press, how important it was to have a media balance in Hungary. Congressman Novak, your proposal cannot be supported in this form, but I must say that it is exceptionally rare, to say that it is a state of grace, because I agree with you on something that has not happened in the last four years. I must say to you, and it is very good that Minister Varga is here, that this is a particularly important problem you have been talking about. It is well seen from the Hungarian and European and even international Internet penetration data that if this continues, as we are now standing in the field of Internet services, Hungary is facing a serious competitive disadvantage, Romanian mountain shepherds in the Fogarasi snows are using the internet cheaper than we are in Hungary, and, moreover, in some places, Internet access is already greater than in many parts of the country. It's been a problem for many years. In France, Germany, Austria, income conditions are much higher than we do, and in fact, broadband access is cheaper. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area. We also ask the Minister and recommend that the government intervene with effective means in the market process, and that we do need to make it much cheaper to access the Internet and reach much wider layers and overcome the competitive disadvantage that is already felt. This solution, which the Member has formulated, is not good, but he has raised the problem, he is right, and this needs to be addressed. Congressman Schiffer, I strongly deny this is not a media tax, it's a commercial tax. As stated in his title, this serves the purpose of taxing advertising revenues. I'm not saying that you were wrong about a number of issues, but I won't have time to give you a meaningful answer. I especially liked the fact that after our private conversation about Habermas and his reception in Budapest, Habermast quoted, but this little detail should remain our secret. Mr Pogácsás, I am very pleased that you mentioned the Hungarian-Slovenian match. I was approached by a crowd of voters, and it was assessed that this was the petty revenge of the RTL Club, which has not even occurred in the Hungarian media history. It's been so long since I've had a second. Some have forgotten to report the death of Pope John Paul, but simply interrupting such an important match has not been the case. [[11.10]] I do not envy Mr Sallai's agreement with everyone, but he does not agree with anyone; it must be difficult to resolve this self-contrast. But in the meantime, I have seen that cooperation and the axis are evolving with Mr Szilágyi, so I wish you every success in your work. And what he said about Minister Lazarus, I must firmly reject. I simply find it petty to use such expressions that "the top minister will deal with the Kehi. " I simply can't find any adjectives, but it is sad that this is how a minister can be expressed in the Hungarian Parliament. And I can tell Mr Tukacs - if he were here - that if we go into the store as private people, we buy bread, we pay VAT on it, and otherwise we pay VAT on it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We're paying rent on our income, so we're paying traffic taxes on our income, so I don't even understand your example. Thank you very much, fellow Members. I am sorry that I cannot answer the question raised by Daniel Z. Carpathian. What I can say is... [[You should have pressed a button.]] [[You should have pressed a button.]] What? (Előd Novak: Should have pressed a button!)
u2014-06-11-70	Congressman, please stop.
u2014-06-11-71	I'd finish if Congressman Novak didn't yell.
u2014-06-11-72	Okay, well, now...
u2014-06-11-73	So I'm gonna do this on my own time. Anyway...
u2014-06-11-74	Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-75	...you have to touch the Internet community media.
u2014-06-11-76	The closing word has also demonstrated that it is a pleasure to work with you, everyone agrees with everyone, and even the Member has finished his closing. So there's nothing left but to close the item. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place today, and that, according to the agreed agenda, the decision will start at 12 a.m. Until then, I'm gonna take a break, and from 12:00, there's gonna be a vote. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 11.12 - 12.07 President: István Jakab Note: László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki)
u2014-06-11-77	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, It follows that the final vote and the decision on the preliminary amendment of the bill on advertising tax presented in an exceptional procedure will be taken. Mr L. Simon László's own motion T/154. T/154/7. and the summary report is T/154/8. Number 2 is available on the network. Under the rules of the exceptional procedure, a separate vote on the points of the summary amendment cannot be requested, nor can Parliament vote on the maintenance of amendments not included in it. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/154/7. I have made a motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the motion by 127 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/154 will accept it. the text of the proposed amendment, as amended by its summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 144 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I remind you that yesterday the debates were already held by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, At the request of Jobbik's group, Parliamentary Members, members of the government and State Secretarys are invited to investigate the compulsory increase of wealth11. We decide on the subject series of legislative proposals. [[Several members of the Government are leaving the Chamber. Mr. Novak intervenes.]] I ask you, will Gábor Vona and Előd Novák be included in a series of subjects T/11. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote. Mr. Novak intervenes.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 41 votes in favour, 119 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at the request of the LMP Group, T/12, which initiated the sixth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. We decide on the subject series of legislative proposals. I ask you, will András Schiffer and Attila Mesterházy be included in a series of subjects T/12. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 48 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, following the request of the LMP Group, the 2013 CXXII on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land. T/13 initiating an amendment to law. We decide on the subject series of legislative proposals. I ask you, will Róbert Sallai Benedek, Bernadett Wind, András Schiffer T/13 be included in the series. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 48 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, T/14 on the amendment of certain laws to avoid a foreign currency loan trap and to help those in a foreign currency loan trap, as requested by the LMP Group. We decide on the subject series of legislative proposals. I ask you, will Erzsébet Schmuck, András Schiffer, Bernadett Wind Members T/14 be included in the series. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 45 votes in favour, 121 against and three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at the request of the LMP Group, the T/15 initiating the transparency of the state security past. We decide on the subject series of legislative proposals. I ask you, will you be included in a series of subjects, as is Congressman András Schiffer T/15. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 49 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. I'm ordering a five-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break.]] [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2004 on sport will follow until closure. Imre Vas, Balázs Simon Róbert, Fidesz, MEPs' own motion T/156. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Culture to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, Honourable Parliament, I've made progress according to my script. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Simon, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-78	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, To the Sports Act, we presented an amendment together with my fellow Member, Dr. Imre Vas. Ten years ago, the Law on Sport I of 2004 - the Sports Act - was adopted, but the world changed a lot in ten years, so the Sports Act [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the updating of certain paragraphs has become inevitable. Our current amendment is basically 72. This applies to the provisions of Section 2 of the Act on the application of access systems. I think that sport is a very important area of all of our lives. Thanks to the government's efforts to develop sports facilities, new and modern stadiums and sports halls have been opened and opened to the public in recent years. These stadiums and halls are suitable for thousands, sometimes tens of thousands of viewers. As a representative of the town of Győr, I am pleased that the multifunctional hall, which will also be the home of the Champions League winner Audi-ETO KC, is currently being built from a significant central source in our city, and, moreover, during the autumn, the world competition will be held here in this multifunctional hall. I think it is of the utmost importance for all of us that in these high-quality facilities, too, in the European context, culturally friendly, family-friendly forms of cheerleading really take place. The most important objective of our bill is the maximum protection of human life and, of course, the protection of property. As an example, I would like to say that in May of this year, right here in the capital city, in the Papp László Sports Arena, I myself participated in the Bla final of the women's handball against Audi-ETO KC Podgorica, where the guest fans could have caused serious problems if the central intervention had not taken place. It is therefore essential to make access systems secure and to review them. Today, if the organizer wants to achieve a high level of safety at a sports event, he must, among other things, be able to identify the person. This is also stated in the Hungarian Football Association's security regulations, and I quote: " At the time of entry, the identity of the ticket holder or the charter holder must be checked at least at random by the organizers. In order to compare the identity, the director may request the document necessary to establish the identity of the participant. The purpose of the identification of people entering the sporting event is to allow only persons who do not endanger the safety of the other tickets and the event. " The call of the former footballers of Ferencváros said after a previous riot: "We also ask the club's leadership, as well as the Hungarian authorities, to name those responsible, to create an environment in which a match can become family fun again, and to sit fearlessly with your child, friends and loved ones on the bleachers of Albert Stadium. " To sum up, we must protect peaceful fans and families visiting the matches, with them and by increasing the number of viewers at sports events. [[12.20]] What is the instrument of the bill? The bill introduces another manageable data called the hash code. It is very important, so I would point out that the hash code is not a biometric data in itself, but data generated from a biometric data. Biometric identification is a technology that measures and records the physical characteristics of a person and uses this data to identify the person. Based on biometric data, it generates a long mathematical sequence that cannot be reversed, so the sequence alone is not suitable for identification. The organizers of the sporting event have the opportunity to compare two hash codes, one already in the system and the other is generated at the time of entry. If it is the same person, he belongs to the same person who can join the event, if not, he should not be allowed to join the event. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the bill does not authorise the handling of biometric data. To conclude, identification becomes rapid and effective, the institution of disbarment, which is almost impossible to circumvent, makes sense. Taking into account the number of sports clubs' financial opportunities and their fans, they can decide on the introduction of this security technology, so the use of the technology is not mandatory. As an example, similar schemes are already in place in several sports clubs in the Netherlands. Parliament does not deal with the proposal in an urgent manner, but in a normal procedure, so it is also possible to accept any amendments. The Data Protection Authority has not expressed any concerns about the introduction of the system. Finally, I think we all agree that there will never be order on the field if we cannot rule out criminals. Thank you very much. The bill is, of course, proposed to be adopted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-79	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Zsolt Semjén wishes to speak. I'll give you the floor in a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-06-11-80	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. In line with the professional efforts of the Hungarian Football Association, the Ministry of Human Resources strongly supports the regulation and practical enforcement of the organizational arrangements, which provide an enhanced protection of children, women and disadvantaged social groups, as the conditions for organizing the matches. In the previous government cycle, the second Orbán government took a number of steps to ensure the above objectives in practice. Modern, world-class facility development has started, some of which are already completed or will take place in the near future. In addition to facility development, the government considered it important to ensure the development of safety and safety conditions for a sport event and match view as an attractive leisure opportunity for a wide range of society. To this end, the new philosophy of insurance and the continuous assessment of insurance have improved the security requirement for match planning in the national championships and other key events of the most public-interested sports. The number of directors employed in the provision of sports events decreased by more than 25 percent. Thanks to cost-effective settlement practice, despite reducing the number of directors, the quality of organisation and settlement has increased, the number of security incidents has not increased and the degree of severity has decreased. Particular attention was paid to the safety classification of football matches. The qualification of the matches, in which the State Secretary for Sport and Youth of EMMI, representing the State, is also involved, has properly facilitated the planning of the provision of events. There is no security problem due to incorrect match rating. In order to ensure the conditions of civilized cheerleading during the matches, the 2011 comprehensive amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport, in order to protect children, women and families against violent, obscene expressions, was required to ensure that the organizer is obliged to the participant who endangers the holding of the sporting event or the security of the persons and property of others, or who is racist, inciting hatred, inciting or offending others, not to engage in sporting cheering or encouragement, to call for such behaviour to cease. If the notice fails, the viewer concerned shall be removed from the sporting event. As regards the person who has been removed, under the conditions laid down by law, the sale of the ticket or lease should be refused, which ensures that such fans are kept away from further sightings of sports events, and from committing various forms of spectator violence. In view of the above, since the current amendment of the law before this House will help us to achieve the goals that we have preferred, the bill is supported by the government. The structure of European trends, a secure and service stadium in all respects, is a priority. This is followed by increasing cooperation between public authorities, employing trained directors within the stadium, separating cheerleading groups. Another principle is zero tolerance to offenders and criminals, avoiding the possibility of repeating crimes, which is further strengthened by the form of cheerleading identification initiated in the bill. The aim of the practical application of the opportunities offered by the new instruments under the bill is to establish a regulation that ensures uniform minimum conditions for safety technical conditions at federal level during all matches and sporting events organised in the organisation of competitions for each sport. The government's explicit goal remains to allow viewers of football matches to spend their free time and enjoy matches in a much more cultural environment and in a atmosphere worthy of the sporting event. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2014-06-11-81	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions may be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker, and that only one Member and the first independent Member from each group of Members have the opportunity to comment. I give the floor to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction, I would like to predict that the amendment of the sports law is supported by the faction. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No kidding!]] Why is that necessary? But I'm telling you, Congressman Schiffer. Why is that necessary? And if you'll excuse me, I'll explain, because I don't agree with the fact that there are fewer and fewer viewers, as you just said. I think there's more and more viewers going out for the matches. Last time I could open a parenthesis, I participated in a friendly handball match in Hungary-Romania, which took place in Nyíregyháza, the sports hall there, exemplary. Yeah, it was a friendly match. I think we've seen over 2,000 viewers cheering for themselves there. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How many criminals were there?]] So why is this amendment necessary? As we have heard from the author, thanks to the conscious efforts to develop sports facilities, new stadiums have been built, halls have been renewed and their doors will be opened to the public in the future. It is important for these facilities to have civilized, family-friendly forms of cheerleading and to reduce disruptive, mood-breaking behavior. Yes, because the behaviour of a spectator or a group can destroy the support of thousands of viewers. [[Dr. András Schiffer and several better-looking representatives are speaking loudly to each other. The president's ringing the bell.]] Currently, in visual sports - I would like to list: football, handball, basketball, hockey, water polo - it is not uncommon that thousands, tens of thousands of people cheer on their team. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Like this?]] Like this. Tens of thousands, yeah, tens of thousands cheering. I would suggest to my fellow Member that you visit these events. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I'm visiting. Unlike you, I'm visiting him.]] Therefore, the purpose of the law amendment is to filter out those who threatened the spirit of fair play in the bleachers by their former disorderly conduct. This is difficult at the moment, since the identification of the perpetrators is also difficult and it takes a long time to prove their disruptive actions. As we have heard from the rapporteur, therefore, the fundamental aim is to protect human life and protect property and to maintain and enhance the safety of the sporting event. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to have a few words about entry. This should be done in a manner suitable for identification, and the fans should be introduced. As we have heard from the author, this is also stated in the MLS's security regulations. In my opinion, a fast, secure, non-false system should be built where registration is required once and then entry takes seconds, as can be seen in Western Europe or in several stadiums in Europe. We must not endanger peaceful fans, the safety of the event. It is necessary to create conditions and environments in which you are once again a family, but I can say that a match can become a community fun, and you can cheer with your children, loved ones, friends without fear. Ladies and gentlemen, I suppose you remember the London Olympics two years ago, where Hungarian fans were at all sports events, such as water polo matches, but also at other events. It occurred to me that there was a prize in the training and performance of athletes, and it was a pleasure to be Hungarian if an Olympic gold or Olympic silver, bronze or title were achieved. There the individual performance appeared in a community experience. I was proud that the Hungarian fans were everywhere, at every sporting event, and they earned respect for themselves. Dear House, We have also heard from the rapporteur about the instrument of the bill, and in my opinion, the faction shares this opinion, the proposed proposal offers a safe solution for identification, which is less likely to endanger the private sector and provides data security guarantees. Yes, there is ongoing consultation with the Data Protection Authority, and as far as I know, there have been no constitutional concerns. We have also heard about the system from the author, so it can be mentioned that this identification code is not biometric, but data generated from biometric data, which meets today's requirements. In fact, the entry sees a sequence of numbers, and the matching or non-matching of this sequence shows whether the person entering is the same or not. You don't know any other data about this, so in my opinion it meets the requirements of today's times. The technology is appropriate and the legislation is capable of providing a secure data protection framework for entry. Dear House, I would like to sum up my thoughts and perhaps even say that, in addition to the data protection framework, this is an optional system. It's not mandatory. Clubs can decide on their own financial situation, taking into account the number of fans whether or not to introduce them. The identification becomes easier, it is almost impossible to circumvent, the institution of the ban makes sense. Dear House, As we have heard, the general debate takes place under the ordinary procedure and it is therefore possible to accept the amendments. There are well-functioning, similar systems in Western Europe, and I ask you to support this legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-83	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, we've heard a lot of emotional comments, and we've heard his national exposure, obviously with sports experiences. It's not the first time this has happened in the lives of the Parliament in recent years. Actually, we're part of a process. Obviously, the new Parliament will amend the sports law for the first time, but we have had a lot of opportunities for this in the last four years. And so we have seen that the government is putting the decisions about sport at the forefront of its policy, and obviously it is trying to make a political move. However, this will trigger lively debates in society - and then I will put it very delicately. Basically, decisions that have been taken in the last cycle can be divided into three groups and affected the work of the Parliament. In fact, all three groups would have positive and forward-looking elements, but the final ringings of these groups are not very positive. The corporate tax benefit scheme was introduced by you. Let me just say this a little bit, because it's all connected. It was also because it was a system already used in theatre and cinema by the former socialist government before 2010. It worked there, in fact, the adaptation of this was done in the lives of five visual team sports. We have also said that we are in favour of this process, but we would expand this circle, because smaller sports, Olympic sports that have a serious tradition, do not receive adequate support. And we have drawn attention to the fact that this support system is actually going to be difficult for football. Then we didn't think at the time, what finally happened was that, for example, in the first year of this system, the total budget for the four visual team sports outside football, plus the support of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, was less than the amount spent on the high-studio stadium in this way. [[12.40]] So the corporate tax relief scheme would have started well, but it didn't take an A-rated exam, because the Prime Minister's hometown managed to get a tremendous amount of money from it - not arguing, of course, that many rural clubs could be helped. They started to build a terrible stadium in many places, some places verbally, some have actually started this thing - in this connection there is actually this presentation on our table now, partly, and then I will refer to why - he went to stadium constructions for tens of billions forints. This has given rise to a very serious grudge in major sections of society. It was a terrible money. Since I myself participated in the development of sports facilities as a municipal representative, in the decision, and then in the control of the investment, I can say that these investments could have been made significantly cheaper, there are good examples. In Miskolc, I can tell you that around 400 million could have been built a bleachers section of the bleachers, so this ten billion in the area is a high multiple of the amount from which realistic facilities could have been built to serve needs. And then there are questions of sustainability. As I understand it, the Stadium in Debrecen, which, although it was able to fill twice, is obviously largely not operated until today; it may be for the Ferencváros. There was talk about how far forward this is, how forward-looking it is that such facilities are being created in Hungary. It is important to have new sports facilities, and I think that too - let's say not necessarily Felcsút, but it is important - but more interesting perhaps the Czech model, where stadiums with a small capacity have been built, is more realistic, for the average viewing number of football championships in the country, because the Czech Championship has a significantly higher average viewing number than Hungarian - and I will also explain how this has been done here - and yet you have built more capacity facilities, not even where it is really needed. At my place in Diósgyőr, I can tell you that the stadium reconstruction always starts next year, and it's been four years, always next year, where the greatest use of the facility is, by the way, and perhaps the most important. I think there was a good example of that: " 10,000 came up to the cup final not even a month ago. The third group was a matter of order. This sounds good, Conservative Government, let there be order; things have been promised in many respects, such as order in Borsod County within two weeks - this has not worked, but let us now return to the circle of football and sporting events. In 2009, the then socialist government adopted a package of proposals, a salad law, responding to a real social problem. By the way, there was a serious fan break in a Ferencváros-Diósgyőr match, and there were problems with matches, there was no legal background to properly conduct high-risk matches. This legislative background was born in 2009. I have also said a lot to you in the previous cycle that I fully agree that every sporting event in Hungary can be carried out with maximum security. But tell me, since the 2009 amendment, the NB1 football match or the 1st class visual team sports match, where there has been a problem of volume that the legislator has to respond to! They can't say that because it didn't happen. [[Intercoms, noise.]] At the same time, they set off in the direction of connecting this topic to themselves, tidying up the stadiums, and creating access systems for serious legislative amendments - although the country has already bought large quantities before 2002, for billions of dollars, which was not installed, but let's put this in brackets. They created the fan registration, expected it to improve the competitiveness of visual team sports matches, more people will go to matches, families will return to the bleachers, there will be even bigger audiences. Let's see how this story developed in the first year, for example, in football NB1. In 2011-12, the average number of viewers was 3645, you introduced this new system, and 2728 became the next year, and the average viewer was reduced by almost a thousand. This trend continues. You can bring up some outstanding sports events, you can say that a stadium event can happen once, twice, or even three times a full house, but then, in fact, the visitation of these sports facilities is in place for real needs, which, unfortunately, I have to say, will not result in adequate utilisation in more places. The question is, then, why do we have to go further in this matter? This proposal is about, as the three of you have said before me, so I do not want to mention it in very detail - that there is a biometric code suitable for identification, a special code from an iris image, a venous print, so they produce algorithmized, alphanumeric code for each registered supporter in an incredibly serious process - so now I say it, because that's how they look at themselves from here... [[Interjection.]] yes , there may even be alternative proposals on this [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't give me ideas!]] - and brought in this proposal, by the way... Now that there has been no social debate in this regard, or that no one has spoken to the fans, let's say, that has been the case for the past four years, so that doesn't surprise you. However, I do see that they have not gone to the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, or I do not know if they would have gone to the Commission's hearing. It is likely that the errors in the bill would have been brought to the attention here and could have been corrected before the proposal was tabled. If I have to put it very simply, I have to say that there have been serious discussions about registration and entry, but if there is one, then it could be a basic rule that a minimum of clear identification should be applied to fans visiting the sporting event, the minimum. This doesn't make any sense in this form, since the clear identification has already happened, and it doesn't make it any clearer, but in a very expensive, very complex, special procedure, it may be possible if this proposal is accepted by the National Assembly, to enter certain stadiums in Hungary. These stadiums aren't nuclear reactors, so I can tell you they're of this type. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Don't give me any ideas. Don't give me any idea.]] I don't see a reason for special entry. Obviously, they told me, and it's true that this is an opportunity. It's really an opportunity. But then it occurs to me that the information that is circulating about this proposal, for example, that such a system has already been installed in the new stadium in Ferencváros at a very high cost, and that it is also planned to be introduced in other stadiums - it is certainly a good thing for someone that it has been incorporated there, and I do not want to discuss it at this moment - I just say that there is no legal background today. So are we not here, in total, to make it more difficult, restrict or restrict the visit of fans to a sporting event and to create a legal background for the use of systems that have already been built? Because if this is the case, then I think that this proposal does not make much sense in this form, because it will not cause greater order in stadiums, it will not be more identifiable - I note that they can also be identified under the current legislation, and that if such a thing happens there, they will probably be able to go to the appropriate authorities, directors or the police, so there will be no more obstacles to this at the moment - but if they are obliged to replace a club card under such a special procedure, they will probably be able to visit the matches more expensively, they will have more problems to replace these club cards, and they will not be able to visit a match again and again, so that the great legend of each club will think on a Saturday afternoon that they will go out for the evening match, and because they do not have these conditions, they will not be able to visit a match. For the record, this has happened in Ferencváros and in several places in recent years. I appreciate your desire to select among the fans, and this will not serve the greater safety of sporting events, so for my part I can say that I do not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2014-06-11-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is certainly no need to confirm the fact that we Hungarians in sport are a great power, we had many, many talented athletes, there is now and there will be in the future, as the supply base in the country is growing and building. There are many, many, many talented and excellent coaches in this country, so, of course, we can say this serious result about ourselves. Obviously, if we are powerful in something, then our responsibilities and our responsibilities are much greater. Therefore, I think that the efforts made by the Orbán government to strengthen and promote sport should be appreciated. We believe that sport is a common language, everyone understands it both at home and in the world. We want to create and complete the conditions of sport, the possibility of sport, and therefore we have done a lot in the last four years with regard to the development of facilities. As a result, we have very serious results. Much more people play sports than before, only in five visual team sports more than 100,000 more children play sports, which we think is a serious achievement. We'd like to move on this path. Indeed, Hungary has 250 thousand certified football players, mainly in teams of age groups, mostly young people and children. We have done very, very much to bring as many sporting events, sports competitions and world competitions to Hungary as possible. If there are facilities, sports facilities, we can obviously host world championships, European championships, or even an Olympics later on. I think this is what we should be trying to do, the image of a creative, building country that further strengthens the great power of sport. We do this because sport has many values. It has many values, and we must use this value both in the development of individuals and in the building of our community. We'd make a mistake if we didn't. It would be a mistake if we did not use sport as a tool in creating and developing the physical and mental balance of our children, and if we did not continue to do the same for the adult population. Over the past four years, the willingness of the adult population to play sports has increased from 5 percent to 15 percent, which is a huge achievement, and we would like to continue this. To do this, you need incentives, you need opportunities, you need a safe, cultured environment. I think we can perhaps agree that families will be happy to go to a football match if, of course, they can see a good match, but mostly if they can do so under safe and cultural conditions. Therefore, the legislative amendment proposal before us serves this purpose, indeed, to create safe, civilised conditions, and, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, it is indeed so, and we are trying to do this, and the government is doing everything in its power to allow families to watch a football match in calm conditions and, of course, to cheer. There are also different degrees and degrees of cheerleading. I don't think a lot of people are going out to fight if they see regular riots and aggressive, fighting people there. I don't think that's appropriate. Moreover, when you think about the idea of sport, the historicality of modern Olympics, the idea of Baron Coubertin is precisely that the nations should compete peacefully with each other. It's not about war, it's not about aggressiveness, it's about fair play, it's about fair play, it's about sports. We want to build an athletic nation, this is what every decision we make in the field of sport is for us, and it is important for us to create cultural conditions and a safe environment in stadiums. This is a forward-looking, truly exemplary proposal. Obviously, in order to ensure precisely the national consensus, the representation and speech of the common language, all amendments, I think, will be examined by the authors, and the government will also look at this. But I think the direction is right, the intention is clear. They don't want to push anyone out of the stadium who goes cheerleading, and they want to encourage their favorite team fair and square. That is not the purpose of this proposal. On the part of the KDNP, we see that this proposal is forward, indeed to be supported, and we will certainly do so on our part. The Deputy Prime Minister said that the Stadium modernisation projects were launched by the Orbán government, and here I am sorry that Congressman Varga from MSZP has left. [[For signal:]] He's here. He went a little beyond the amendment of the law - of course that is his right - and overinterpreted the material before us. Criticism can always be said, especially to an opposition representative. I think that in the case of the Nutmeg - I was out in the cup final - there really were 9 to 10 thousand fans from Miskolc and its surroundings, it was a good match, I have to say, there were many, and it is right that there are not only viewers, but there are fans, and it is right that they are cheering to encourage their own team, and it is not right to cross a certain line. But that didn't happen fortunately at this cup final, but it was pretty much separated from the Újpest fans and the Nut-győr fans, so they were implanted in the two corners. Now, the point is that we are a sports-friendly government overall, our basic goal is to raise healthy generations, to use sport as a tool for this, and to enforce the values of sport, fair play, fair struggle, sport-likeness everywhere, also in the audience. We want it to be a family-friendly cheerleader, we want it to be a civilized cheerleader. This has been resolved in many countries of Western Europe, and I think we too can do so. This legislative amendment proposal before us is a serious step towards this, so the KDNP supports it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-87	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We have already negotiated the Sports Act once, and the Jobbik Hungary Movement was even against the promotional registration because we said it was a completely unnecessary thing, that we should solve order in the stadiums in a completely different way, and that security should be resolved differently. And then, when this bill was submitted, I thought it was a joke at first. To tell you the truth, I thought it was a joke, I didn't believe that one of these could be submitted in Hungary today, and as I listen to their comments here, I feel more and more like I really feel like I'm being joked, but no, I can see that they mean it completely. I therefore ask that, for example, the amendment tabled by the Jobbik Hungary Movement should also be taken seriously, so don't take it as a joke, because if you are on this path, then the proposal that we have tabled may help you to make these stadiums even more safe, even more cheerleading. If you'll excuse me, I'll quote you, okay? We shouldn't just ask for a hash code, we should widen the circle we're supposed to ask for to replace the club card. I'll tell you a thing or two about what else to ask. The organizer may require that the club card be replaced - so we use a conditional method here, just as you use a conditional method to do so, so it is conditional - and that the family tree used to present the applicant's relations until the 1500s [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] and pass a moral certificate backwards for three generations. Make a full statement of assets and interests about your income and assets and your economic relations; this would also be expected of a cheerleader if you went in. It would be even more likely that all Utilities' bills (Dr. András Schiffer applauds) showing the result of the reduction in overhead costs. , present the statement of your household's current account for five years, and perhaps present a personalized copy of the purchased edition of the Fundamental Law by Viktor Orbán (Dr. András Schiffer applauds.) They could also be asked to present a document certifying their membership in the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] and pass a certificate of morality back to three generations. Make a full statement of assets and interests about your income and assets and your economic relations; this would also be expected of a cheerleader if you went in. It would be even more likely that all Utilities' bills (Dr. András Schiffer applauds) showing the result of the reduction in overhead costs. , present the statement of your household's current account for five years, and perhaps present a personalized copy of the purchased edition of the Fundamental Law by Viktor Orbán (Dr. András Schiffer applauds.) They could also be asked to present a document certifying their membership in the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association. (Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.) In all cases, however, I would like to ask this specifically, it should be a condition that the participation in the last three Peace Processes is justified in a credible manner. (Dr. András Schiffer applauds.) I think they would also be expected from a man who would like to watch a Hungarian championship match to do this. Otherwise, the recording of biometric data set out in the bill alone does not, in our opinion, provide any guarantees regarding the retention of disorderly persons from sporting events, so that this would ensure full stadium security, as this would guarantee that the conditions for entry are set out in such a way that no one can participate in the events in the main context of these conditions. Thus, the only thing in the world - think about it: the only one in the world - thanks to the Fidesz-KDNP government, is the 100 percent non-disruption stadium, as without viewers there will not be a loud whistle. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In addition, the measure can increase the comfort of those seated on both the track and the VIP parts, where, I suppose, you usually sit, because there will be no unnecessary yelling. [[13.00]] At the same time, it is not negligible that, if this amendment is accepted, we do a great deal for football from a sports professional point of view, as the concentration of players on the field cannot be disturbed, so there will be no shouting from the audience, there will be no comments, so they can safely focus on football, and from this point on, I say that the whole thing can start to develop from a sports professional point of view. Our initiative is therefore in line with the Government's efforts to promote and complete the development and promotion of conscious sports facilities. That's about as serious as what I've heard here. I have heard such sentences from you, Congressman Simon said that human life and property protection. What does the hash code have to do with human life and property protection? Tell me honestly. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Then, in the following sentence, he quotes what MLSZ says about this: a random presentation of a document. The MLSZ requires a random document presentation, and you make it mandatory to be an iris scan, a non-replicable, encrypted, algorithmic, alphanumeric code generated from a vein print. Do you know what this is anyway? [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP.]] In the criminal code, it's called criminal charges when someone is suspected of being abducted. So if I'm gonna take my 11-year-old daughter out to the game, they're gonna put her through the kidnapping process. Or they want to be subjected to a kidnapping process, who has never done anything illegal in his life, didn't do anything illegal, but wants to go to a match. Let's kidnap him. Let's take a look at his iris, get a vein print, give me his address and everything else. Gentlemen. These people want to go to a game. And here you refer to various examples, by the way. I am pleased because it seemed useful to speak up at the committee meeting, since Mr Simon even referred to the examples in England, and he did not. Here, he only mentioned Holland. I told you there's no such thing in England. There's no such thing in England. They did it differently in England. In the way they worked it out in England, we'd be partners. Do you know how they solved it in England? It's not the simple viewer who's being punished by such measures. No! The whole stadium is on camera, there are clear, clear rules, clear rules for fans, and if someone's breaking these rules, they can't get out of the stadium without being held accountable. And there are laws that, if he was held accountable and received, say, a suspended prison sentence, then, as an additional punishment, he is determined that if he is banned from the stadium for three years and does nothing, he will just enter the stadium gate and be put in jail. He won't go in from here. We don't need algorithms, we don't need any fiction, they could just solve them. And then we could hear it - and I'm telling you, let's get into the professional stuff here, okay? - that this hash code can't be unraveled. You know what the big problem is? That it's a bit of an outdated system. I'll tell you why it's outdated. It's outdated because this code, this encryption, was used to encrypt so-called digital signatures. And you know why they don't use this, they use a more modern one? That's because it turns out you're not 100% sure. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's used in a state presence, that's what it's about.]] It's not used because it can be decoded. [[Noise, constant interruptions and clarity in the benches of the MSZP.]] You're saying it's inexplicable, but imagine it can be unraveled. Then they also said that new aspects of insurance - Mr Semyen said - were implemented in Hungary. I don't know what new forms of insurance have been implemented. I saw one - perhaps that's what he thought - from the Ferencváros-Fehérvár match I saw a new insurance aspect. This meant that families - because it was a family-friendly match - had to go in between 50-60 young men dressed in yellow vests, who had to go in because they blocked the gate. It was the new insurance system, probably. There is no new insurance system in Hungary, but this is what we need. What we need to do is start there, what kind of people can do, like, cheerleaders. How does the staff who are supposed to serve the fans try to serve them? I've been to several stadiums. Believe me, I didn't feel at your stadium for a minute that it was the security staff who, by the way, wasn't one of them under two meters. [[Shows with your hands:]] They had necks like this, they were waiting for you in a suit and tie, and they were totally polite to everyone as long as he was acting normal. For a minute, you didn't feel like you were about to be kicked out. And then in Hungary, believe me, if you go not to the VIP bleachers, but to buy your ticket and try to enter, you are exposed to constant atrocities on football courts, because unfortunately that is the case. [[There's a constant awareness in the benches of the MSZP.]] After that, you said - and here I do not understand - that the number of security incidents has not increased in the past period, their severity has been significantly reduced. [[Dr András Schiffer: That's right! Exactly! Then why are we here?]] Then what do you need to change the system for? Then why do you need this hash code? If safety in stadiums continues to improve, then why introduce a new system [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: To make it even better!]] Which, in addition, I'm telling you, is an iris sample, a vein print, an address book, plus, when you buy the ticket, even when you enter, you always do. Let's cross-check these. If there's a tendency to regress, then why? Why are you doing this again? I know why. Because of what my fellow Member has already referred to, because they started selling rents at Ferencváros for one day. After one day, he was suspended because they found out whoa, that's illegal, what we're doing right now. And we need to create this legal background. We're used to that, by the way. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] We may have gotten used to laws that are either written on someone or someone or something. It's also a law that's written for this right now, but once again, I think we're talking about something absolutely and completely unnecessary right now. This law should be revoked, so I think it would be the best thing for us to do. And Congressman Vinnai told me that in the Olympics, it was really an uplifting thing. Ask a cheerleader about the Olympics: did they ask him for an iris picture? Did you ask him for a vasectomy? Did you ask him for anything? They didn't ask for anything. They served him, they were happy to have cheerleaders. It's not determined whether someone is asking for an iris picture or not... And I have one more question: of course, I do not want to say that there cannot be events in Hungary that are not for football stadiums. There are events like this. As unfortunately there are bank robbers in Hungary. [[Defiance.]] But they don't want every single person entering a bank to write a picture and a venous print. Because a certain percentage of them go into the bank to rob it, they do not ask simple bank clients for such an identification system, but try to identify and punish bank robbers. Let's not punish the common man for having a bank robber. Let us not punish the simple cheerleaders, who are fortunately in the majority - a small percentage who commits disorderly conduct - for some who may want to commit disorderly conduct. One more thing you said: it's not biometric. That's what he said, if I remember correctly. What I do not know is that if this is not biometric, what are the following sentences in the law for: " The biometric data will be deleted immediately. The hash code and biometric data shall then be deleted without delay. " If it's not biometric data, why is it in the law that it's biometric data that needs to be deleted? I don't understand it at all. And then we can talk about - maybe I'll ask for another normal comment, because I can see that you enjoy what I'm saying. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] - because we can talk about - and my fellow Member is already preparing for me here, it will also be good - what provisions have been introduced abroad, where the stadium customs have changed and the bleachers have changed. Speaking of England, let's talk about England. Indeed, in the late '80s, in the early '90s, hooliganism was a serious problem in England. They didn't ask for any venous prints, nothing else, but nicely, methodically, systematically began to deal with this case. First of all, they created within the police the group that they taught mass psychology, mass management, everything else to ensure order at the stadiums. Then the so-called stewards, who represent the director's guard, were trained to deal with people, to serve the audience normally. They made a good football next to it, and they really made it family-friendly, in principle, to visit the matches. I told you, they filter out the rioters as I told you before: they're not making it harder to get in, but if someone's making a mess, they're getting out. But they also made a big mistake. And if you're talking about old Fradi players, I'm gonna give you another example of a well-known football authority, Alex Ferguson, who wasn't on the bench for a long time - almost 30 years - at Manchester United all the time. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Temporary!]] Maybe he knows something about football. [[13.10]] Alex Ferguson said that we can't sell any more tickets, we can't put together a better team, there's one thing missing from this stadium, he said: the mood. Because, indeed, in England, fans were wiped out in certain stadiums. The mood has been wiped out, since football is an absolute part of being in a good mood. It's a good stadium, it's a good stadium with a good atmosphere, where both players and fans are trying to win together, and for that, we do need cheerleading camps. This was wiped out in one or two places in England, and they're trying to trace it back. They did the same thing in Barcelona. If you look at it, they're starting to rebuild the cheer camp in Barcelona to create a mood, as the leaders of Barcelona asked the viewers before one of their BL matches, which they played with Ajax to cheer on, because the team needs encouragement. So let us consider the good examples, but let us not make the mistakes that have been made there. I notice you're not taking the good examples, but you're trying to come up with worse examples. They are trying to implement worse examples here in Hungary. This will lead to the fact that stadiums that have been built for serious billions of dollars should be supported, which can only be supported by fans. If they don't go to the matches, they won't be able to support these stadiums. I'm asking you to reconsider and withdraw this bill, because it's not right, believe me. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-11-89	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the front, it would be good to clear the magistrate's identity. Because I don't see one person in these chairs who would be most competent from the government side: Gábor Kubatov. Why isn't Gábor Kubatov, president of the Ferencváros Gymnastics Club here? All I can think about is that he's preparing for his speech and he's gonna show up sometime. I see Imre Vas, who really has my hat off to his diversity and multi-functionality, but to not know much about football matches, don't be angry, Mr Vas, that's quite likely. In the same way, my winning colleague from Vinnai may have been at a handball game, but then I don't really get it. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: I was even a player!]] I really don't understand what kind of criminals you're talking about, Mr Vinnai. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Jumped to the Shadow!]] Maybe at the handball game in Nyíregyháza you've met too many criminals? Don't be ridiculous. I don't even know what Deputy Prime Minister Semyen was talking about, because you just acknowledge what we know that the security of professional football matches has actually increased in Hungary in recent years. I think the Deputy Prime Minister is also in another sport, because he hasn't been to much of a football game, and even in the VIP box, I don't see him that way in recent photos, that's for sure. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: Nobody is perfect! Defiance. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Everybody knows football!]] That's right, no one's perfect, but maybe the fellow Member who knows exactly what's going on in the stadiums today should come here. Look, Deputy Prime Minister, the thing is that there is no need for a variety of hocus pocus here, and then I'm about to find out what the real motivation is here, that I myself was at a season-opening football game in Békéscsaba in early March, and I was among the guests' ultras, and the domestics came, and there was no problem in the world. I don't know what you're talking about! The fact is that, while the level of football is constantly falling in Hungary, it is typical that the Secretary of State, after having done his eulogy, has left the Chamber, Hungarian football is not performing better, despite all the talk, and the constant protest is only driving the viewers away from the stadiums. The average spectator number of the football NB1 is in flight. That's the situation, that's what we should be facing. Where there were security problems, Mr Vinnai, that was not handball, that was football, but not in recent years. About 10 to 15 years ago, there were serious security issues. Speaking of 10-15 years ago, Fidesz-KDNP might want to make a self-critical presentation on this subject, as is usually the case in the system of national cooperation. Perhaps it should also be remembered that at the end of their first government, you guys hit the chute and tried to clean up the stadiums. Your sports minister at the time decided to set up an entrance gate system. We do not know what the fate of this entry gate system was, because according to the article published on the Index, Tamás Deutsch does not know, nor does his successors in office, György Szilvásy and Ferenc Gyurcsány could not answer where these entry gates were dusted. Wouldn't it be fair that, before they invent new rules for the fans, they might account for the country's and the taxpayer's publicity for where these entry gates, which were manufactured at the end of the first Orbán government, were placed in a basement and then disappeared because they were no good for anything? Dear Parliament, It doesn't really show what would benefit from this bill, apart from the various communication panels. I am curious about the closure of my fellow Member, Imre Vas, which, by the way, I would probably be able to say by heart. The problem with these is that Imre Vas never joins the debate to defend his position, but reads a pre-written text regularly as a closing phrase. What is very revealing in this bill is that, on the one hand, you have already introduced legislative proposals in this area in recent years. Then this party to entertain the few viewers who are still going out to NB1 football matches with all kinds of new hocus pocus with iris patterns somehow didn't occur to them. If we analyse the bill better, it turns out that for some reason, you prefer technology in a very narrow band. The question really is whose interest this law is in at all; because it is not the cheerleader, that is for sure. I think you should either put the papers on the table, or you should invite someone in the House who can put the papers on the table, and you should tell me which oligarch circle, which business circle will benefit from this bill. Because that's what this is about, that's for sure. My fellow Member Imre Vas may be smiling, and I would suggest that, at least at the end of July, when the NB1, you should visit a football match, not the VIP box, come into centre B and take a look around. I don't think anyone's gonna lay a hand on him, no one's gonna want to beat him up, and then maybe think about it. [[Novak Előd: They don't know him!]] Then you might want to reconsider your position. The fact is that what you have been talking about, whether it is the Deputy Prime Minister or the authors or Congressman Vinnai, there is no such situation today. This bill serves only one purpose: to make good use of a new entry and identification system again. Someone's gonna benefit from this again. I believe you don't know exactly who you're doing this for, but I'm only asking you to call those who can tell us which business, economic interests this is all about. The fact is that this bill is wrong in two respects, in addition to the fact that it is a highly harmful sport mailer. Once again, I can refer to what may have been said by my fellow Member Szilágyi just now that it is in fact in the interest to have a good atmosphere, a champagne atmosphere and cheering at sports matches. The continuing fight of the fans leads to the fact that the fans simply disappear from the otherwise unstandard football matches. I would also recommend that my fellow Member, Vinnai, should also take note of the reports he has published on the sports paper on the NB1 rounds, for example, going back six months. There's a lot of 800, 1000 spectators that in better times, let's say, were spectators of the regional championship. What scandals, what security problems are you talking about? Do you have any idea what you're talking about? 'Cause what you see is that this bill aside from being a cheerleader, you're talking about criminals, you're treating fans as criminals, you're treating ultras as criminals, and this bill is unconstitutional. I would like to point out that President János Áder has already returned a similar bill to Parliament, precisely because the Freedom of Information Act 38. Paragraph 4 (a) requires the Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority to give an opinion on the proposal in advance. It is one thing to trust Imre Vas's multifunctionality that in a few days he can create flawless legislative proposals in a wide variety of areas of law, but the problem is that there is a bill created by you, possibly by Imre Vas, which, unfortunately for you, connects Attila Péterfalvi to the system. My question is where the preliminary opinion of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information is. [[13.20]] I will go on, it is not enough that Attila Péterfalvi's opinion is asked, and I should perhaps put it on the table of Parliament and commission. Where is this opinion? But let's keep looking. The fact is that, on the one hand, this bill is clearly above the target from a data protection point of view, from the point of view of freedom of information self-determination, not in itself with the biometric solution, but in parallel with multiple identification. So once again, if there is already a method to identify the fans, then it should be very justified why parallel systems are needed otherwise. Why is it essential to identify natural persons in parallel with different systems? We have not received such justification, and from now on we are talking about a disproportionate limitation of the law. The second is that it is possible to store these biometric data without a database, to be more precise: the code from them is not organized into a database, but stored on a card, and the system is able to compare the data without central processing. In such cases, the biometric data or the template thereof are only in the possession of the data subject, on a medium to which only he has access and the data are not stored anywhere else. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the opinion of the so-called Working Party 29 of the European Union's data protection authorities, published in 2012 on a similar subject, should be met by four elements, and none of these elements are in line with this bill. One is the respect of the principles of purpose and necessity and proportionality. What is the need for biometric identification? What shortcomings do previous entry systems have that make the application of this identification system unavoidable, and why parallel identification systems? Moreover, if the purpose is merely identification, the decentralised storage of personal data is sufficient without a separate database. We should examine specifically what types of biometric data are involved. I think that, for example, the French data protection authority did not find it acceptable to use the fingerprints of students in the case of an entry system at the entrance of a school dining room, but accepted the use of the geometry of the hand for the same purpose. The fingerprints leave a mark, on the one hand, and on the other hand they can be collected without the knowledge of the data subject, and on the other hand they are too widely used, considered and accurately regulated, so what type of data they are. Finally, here is the black soup, as these data are managed by various private organisations and private companies. Where's data security? Who will be in charge of data security? The clubs? Are these the sports companies? Are we talking about companies that, year after year, season after season, have different money launderers with dark backgrounds behind them? At a time when the whole system of sports organisations creaks, you authorize such private companies to store such sensitive data in bulk, neither the principle of purpose-boundness nor the inevitability of such databases appear to exist. Dear fellow Members, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, If you really wanted to put the Hungarian football in order, which we would naturally welcome, then you should not start with stadium building, you should not continue with the sponsoring of fans, but, for example, you should have included the LMP proposal two years ago in a series of objects in the summer that we submitted, which is about allowing organisations in visual team sports, professional championships to start up and invest only in companies whose ownership structure is transparent and there is adequate coverage for proper operation. This bill has been swept off the table, and if there is something wrong with Hungarian football, for example, it is that the proper, safe and correct organisational background is missing. As long as the adventurous capital can invest and launder stolen money in professional team sports, the introduction of stadium construction and newer access systems can serve only one purpose: fattening up oligarchs near Fidesz. That's what this bill is all about. I would very much ask that, in the debate, either the Deputy Prime Minister or my fellow Member Vinnai - I do not talk about Imre Vas - give concrete examples that, in recent years, let us say, in the last two years, since we have not discussed such a sport hooligan law, what crimes have been known to occur, say, in stadiums or in handball halls, and which would not have occurred if the bill had been adopted earlier. Talk about specifics. They're trying to protect their right. Forget the horse-zung. Perhaps you should ask Gábor Kubatov, because he may be better at the story, why he should now have such a parallel security system introduced, what cases were there, let's say, in football stadiums in the last year or two, which would justify this. To sum up, however, the consultation which was required by the Freedom of Information Act has been forgotten by the majority, so it is quite possible that János Áder will send this law back here, and that this law violates the basic legal obligation of purpose and proportionate limitation on several points. So for this reason, I think that it is completely unacceptable for a conscientious Member, beyond the fact that it is a warning, that you are not inviting families to the stadiums, but those fanatics who are still going to football matches from week to week, even these people are being chased away from there. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-91	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, further speeches will now be held. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a 15-15-minute time frame for these. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-92	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, We must have a uniform national goal, the development of Hungarian sport and Hungarian sports culture. To this end, I believe that order and security on the ground are a prerequisite. To this end, it is essential to create the conditions for cultured cheerleading. I hope that we all agree on this right here in this House. I also hope that there is only a debate between us in answering and choosing the instruments. We know that sports events have attracted large crowds since ancient times, and that is the case today. The physical and verbal aggression caused by the social tensions of the past decades and other extreme phenomena have unfortunately appeared not only in the immediate vicinity of sports fields, but also in the stands. This is mainly the reason why a lot of sports-loving, fun-loving viewers, sports-friendly and family stay away from games that are not sufficiently safe and in a negative mood. Unfortunately, this physical and verbal aggression is already a natural feature of football matches. They also reflect badly on sports, not to mention that they can negatively affect supply training. Many foreign events have shown that there is an urgent need to do something about security in recent years. The most notorious case was the Heysel tragedy in 1985. 39 people died here. The youngest victim was only 11 years old. In most countries of Europe, including Germany, France and Britain, the introduction of strict rules on criminal law and sport management has made certain key sporting events, especially football matches, safer. Looking at the sports events in Hungary over the last decades, the NB 1 may not have had a season where the police didn't have to take serious action against the sports hooligans at a rank station. [[13.30]] Let us all be aware that this withdrawal from taxpayers' money is very expensive. Ladies and gentlemen, Please, let's do this together so that it doesn't become natural today. Let us make sure that the national sports facility building and reconstruction programme, which has been launched and is now continuing in recent years, is completed for the safety of athletes and fans. That's why we're building new tracks, that's why we're building new gymnasiums, sports halls, which are in my constituency, the capital is XVII. In its district, Rákosmen, there is also a starting stone to build a sports and event hall so that as many people can play sports in the best possible conditions, and the viewers can cheer under more cultural conditions. But I know it's still not enough. Will you visit a football match with your child if you cannot feel safe there, if you need to be concerned that hooligans consciously preparing for disorderly conduct may be able to get to their immediate surroundings on the bleachers' bleachers? Dear House, The purpose of this amendment of the Sports Act is to create a legal situation with a service-minded, family-friendly and civilised entertainment opportunity, the key of which is to create security. Ladies and gentlemen, This key is in our hands right now. I ask you, if you agree with the basic goal, to help improve the law with your comments, amendments and criticisms, as it is our common duty and responsibility to establish order on the ground, so that a football match can be an event for which families, young children, parents, grandparents and sports fans are welcome and very safe. Let's do it together so football can be a celebration. Let's do it together to make it a holiday, a holiday, and not a nightmare. As Andrea Pirlo, the world-famous football player, said in her recently published book, and I thought I was closing my comment with her words, I think it is worth listening to, because if anyone knows the world of bleachers, stadiums and the world of careers, it is her, quote: " In other countries it is wonderful to watch a team's bus roll in. You walk into the field with a crowd of fans on one side, kids smiling, and so do we, as we see them. We only rarely need darkened-window vehicles to travel to the stadium. On the contrary, in Italy, foreign games are like nightmares. The road between the hotel and the stadium is like cutting through a battlefield. I'm tired of needing a police escort in front of us, and I'm sick of flashing and sirens. The police have more important things to do than worry about us. " Ladies and gentlemen, I wish for us to jointly achieve the goal of ensuring that everyone in Hungary can be safe in the stadiums and football fields today. I wish there was order in the Hungarian stadiums, and I also wish that the bleachers were full of smiling people, among them as many children as possible, and that the match could become more and more high-quality. I think that this is in our common interest, and until we do so, I hope, soon, and the debate will be able to end with everyone's agreement, until then, I wish everyone good cheering for the soccer world starting tomorrow. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-93	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-06-11-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I myself, like my colleague György Szilágyi, am a Ferencváros fan, but like György Szilágyi, I will do the speech in order to protect all Hungarian support groups, especially organised support groups. So not only the Fradi Camp, but also the Diósgyőrs, Nyíregyházas, Újpesti, Kispesti, Fehérvár, and I would like to speak for the sake of the Hungarian camps, expressing my protest, expressing our protest; if they did not have the courage to sit down with the cheerleaders, because Gábor Kubatov is terrified of the camp of Ferencváros, he does not really like to meet them, to meet them from the community from which he himself took the stand, but he disguised himself behind Vas Imre. And speaking of which, I was suspicious when I saw that Congressman Vas Imre was among the presenters of the proposal, because although Mr Schiffer considered him a universal, multifunctional Member, that is a very polite and mild wording. Imre Vas has been doing a lot of extras here in the Fidesz faction for the fifth year, and he is bravely accepting, signing, without thinking, and without inhibition, the harshest, hardest proposals that violate human rights. First comes the legal and professional arguments, the arguments against the proposal. I'm sure you've already heard of an institution called the Constitutional Court, not unknown to you. They are also familiar with the data protection commissioner's legal institution, I assume, during their more than 20 years of political career, they have met these terms. Neither was his opinion consulted, nor the Ombudsman's opinion, nor the organisations of interest protection, especially the main stakeholders, the support groups; probably the company and the doggybackground could have been very well consulted during the background reconciliations. You've heard of the need, the constitutional principles of proportionality. Now, this is completely contrary to a number of constitutional decisions, because what is included in this proposal is in a rogue, ladies and gentlemen, is unnecessary, disproportionate, extremely expensive, completely meaningless and unnecessary. I'm surprised they didn't list the entire spectrum of sampling, so we could've had footprints, hair samples, various body fluids, they could've sent bomb dogs to fights to get a scent sample, maybe a special dental sample, if the stadium burned down, they could've identified the victims. So where are we sinking to? ! Please, if Stalin lived now, on his knees, crying for the recipe. This is the concentrated chemical Bolshevism combined with ultramodern technology, which you describe in this proposal. You may be soccer friends with corporate tax benefits, but you're anti-enthusiasts, cheerleaders, and mood killers, take note of that. I do not know how many of the speakers of the MPs were involved and how many were involved outside the VIP sectors, within the framework of the groups organised in central B, within the framework of organised cheering. [[On Dr. Vinnai's mark:]] There's one candidate, a savior of honor, yes, we already have one on Congressman Vinnai's side. Great, keep your good habits to yourself. I never went to the VIP sector, and if it's up to me and something unexpected doesn't happen, I'm not going. I have always been in the middle of B since 1995-96, I have always been in an organized frame, and, you know, my opinion - and I will return to the legal and professional arguments - is, though I have experienced, I have experienced a number of things in the past 15-20 years, but I have never had to fear the fans, even the rival Újpest fans of the Ancient, nor have I ever been afraid of their supporters, but I was more afraid of the grizzly bears, who are now in the stadiums, pumped with large numbers of growth hormones, called safety bears, who use psychic and physical terror against fans. Just ask your fellow Congressman Gábor Kubatov list how close he is to the person who did 15 years for manslaughter. This person and the Game over team showed up at the Fidesz headquarters when you had to terrorize teenage young people, you don't like young people. Such friends, close acquaintances, pals, pals of your esteemed Gábor Kubatov. It would be better if you dealt with this and, honourable government representatives, that at the Ferencváros-Újpest match held last autumn, in the Folk Stadium - sorry, Puskás Stadium - you were able to identify a person who, what God gives, was once again subject to criminal proceedings for the most serious crime, a justified suspicion of manslaughter. [[13.40]] He was removed from custody, released from prison, and entered into the security staff that was meant to keep the fans in line, so not only to keep them in check, but also, where appropriate, to control them hard. And if we don't find any footage, if he's not at the game, he's half-brother of the murdered young man at Camp Fradi, then that's not gonna come out. Since then, this "gentleman " has been kicked out, but who knows how many criminals, fortunes, or criminals can be involved in these various security companies. In those private companies that will handle these data, the vein prints, the palm prints, the prints, and I don't know what other prints, and the writing photos, and God knows what else. It's basically a science fiction, which you've described here, although I'm sure you'll pay Fidesz and some of your people well for the companies that will, I'll be curious to see what kind of public procurement, legal environment you'll get these orders in. Because either we will soon be meeting with an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which will contain an exemption rule, or, where appropriate, the Police Commission will grant a specific exemption from public procurement obligations. In any case, there will certainly be a very narrow circle that will solve even the future of your grandson from this project, and you have absolutely no interest in losing the essence of the matches. While unnecessary, disproportionate, contrary to constitutional decisions, contrary to fundamental human rights standards - and you were supposed to be very sensitive to this on paper a few years ago, especially in your opposition phase - you will adopt laws, because unfortunately I see that they will accept them, until then you will find that cheerleading in Hungary will virtually cease. Because let's make a very important difference between a spectator and a cheerleader. The fans are responsible for the positive, good mood, especially the organized cheer groups, who, by the way, in snow, mud, frost, rain, energy, money, and time, do not spare the remotest places within and outside the borders of the country, the vast majority of whom may have a temper, may sometimes say things they would not say outside the game, but their fair, decisive majority are decent Hungarians, and I say this regardless of political affiliation, most of which is not a young man coming out of the Buda aristocracy and the Buda elite. These will be banned, these will take away the rest of the fun of the remaining, obsessed, noble fanatics who are still going out for this bad Hungarian football, whether the selected match or the club level domestic or international match. Because note that the vast majority of fans are not criminals, and cheerleaders will not allow security companies full of suspicious circumstances, murderers, criminal hordes or criminal elements to handle their home address, their photos, their various sensitive data in uncontrollable circumstances. I don't know if you've ever heard of the concept of family visits, if you're so well-informed, I'd like to ask Mr Simon if you've heard of the concept of family visits. You know what family visits are? A family visit is to the honourable pro-government ladies and gentlemen that from the theoretically legal and supposedly well-managed database, the gibbons of security companies with the above mentioned parameters seek out fans, group leaders, opinion makers who do not like any consideration, and often threaten their families, including their young children, life-threateningly, even alive with funerals and similar craps. Now, security companies like this, people with a long history like this, should be removed from the stadium area, and then we could start thinking about how we want the fans to be regulated. And even before anyone misunderstands, as a party of order, as a representative of the party of order, I, too, György Szilágyi, the entire Jobbik faction is in favour of order, peace and tranquility in the stadiums, but there is plenty of professional video camera system that is reported to be available in the new Fradi stadium. This allows you to identify possible disruptors without any problems, and they can be highlighted. By then, since they have committed such crimes, they can be registered, and then, of course, act with complete rigour of the law against disorderly persons. Only you think of the exact opposite logic. An early medieval rule of law, the presumption of guilt, is being incorporated into this proposal. They assume that every cheerleader is a criminal, every cheerleader is a potential fence-wrecker, kicking, fighting, arsonist, and I don't know what kind of person he is, they assume that most of them will commit something, so let's go ahead and register everyone. Where, based on the presumption of innocence, only those who have committed some kind of violation would be registered. In the past, at least two years, but let's say, I think it might be possible to go back even further, there hasn't been such a serious disturbance in stadiums, sports halls, sports facilities, which would justify even a fraction of this extreme legal rigour. What they are trying to consider or consider is that most of the significant disruptions are already outside the stadiums, in general, if there are any in Hungary, because this is also becoming more and more rare, occur several kilometres away from the stadiums, or even in the streets or public areas around the stadiums. So it's completely unnecessary to invest billions in this, which is another reason to forget all this. Because on the one hand, the video camera system is abundantly enough, and on the other hand, believe me, if football is good, if there is a good team, whether it is called Ferencváros or anything else, there is finally a high-quality facility, there is no need to run down to its knees in the urine in the various siderooms - as has been fashion, unfortunately, bad fashion in Hungary in the last 15-20 years - if there is normal service, normal service at normal prices, even the bloodiest, most fanatical, ardent fans will not risk being banned from such facilities and from their favorite team for years, or even years of imprisonment. So in a number of ways, not only constitutionally, from a human rights point of view, it is unnecessary, disproportionate, unnecessary, expensive and meaningless, but it is completely pointless in terms of the psychology of cheerleaders, the psychology of the fans. Then they could say that we may exonerate the fans too much or that we are too much in favour of them if we were to say that there is no need for any security measures. Plenty of what we have right now. Plenty. Even the previous fan card system raises several problems, even personality rights, but a quick, accurate, effective and rigorous application of law combined with a video camera system, can solve the problem that you now basically want to impose a pointless and unnecessary rigor based on the " sparrow cannon " tactic. But I also need to look forward to protesting at every forum, ombudsman, Constitutional Court and other forum, and we will act in the event that you accept this with this iris-able fingerprint content, we will do everything we can to shoot out this law, to repeal this law, so that it cannot actually be applied in substance. It is particularly serious that Gábor Kubatov, one of the spiritual parents or backgrounds of all of this, is not here. Who knows, maybe he's talking to the security guys about opening the season. The other is that many other problems, which seem to be detailed, were not faced with serious problems, and they did not think about it. But with my soul's eyes, I can see the camp of Legia Warsaw or Partizan Belgrade when, say, visiting Újpest or Ferencváros. Well, these fans aren't exactly known for their high tolerance levels. I've got a 40-degree canal, and I can imagine when they're gonna get iris photos and prints into it. Well, you know, that's gonna be the hotbed of the scandal. Because the film will break soon, and even the army will have to be ordered out if they want order, because this Hungarian police will not be able to stop them, and I would bet a great deal on that. I have a specific experience, a specific memory - you can smile at it, but it is. If something is a hotbed of scandal, it will be, ladies and gentlemen, despite wagging your head, Congressman Vinnai, you are very wrong, your thinking is not realistic. Imagine the mass appearance of two or three thousand people who have traveled thousands of miles, waiting to enter without food, to receive refreshments or alcoholic beverages, or anything, food, and two or three thousand people to enter one by one. In Newpesten, this has caused serious problems before when we were introduced through a very narrow opening - I put it very delicately; there was a technical term for it, but I do not want to say it here in this House. [[Defiance.]] - ; In July 2001, when Hajduk played the Fradi Champions League qualifying match with Split, otherwise 0:0, they did the same with the Croatians. They weren't joined, there was a crowd of 1,200 guests, and the police didn't even treat the Croatian cheerleading army. And do you know how it turned out? In the third wave, the police were able to repel the attacks of Croatian fans due to hunger, thirst, several hours in the sun at 40 degrees. [[13.50]] If they had been deployed in time, the whole thing could have been avoided. A series of such problems have not been thought of because you always sit in the VIP sector or watch a game on TV, which is why you can't have a realistic mindset. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they didn't listen to people who really know how to do that. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Meanwhile, I was reminded of a memorial a week ago when we discussed the amendments tabled to the municipal electoral procedural law at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, and Imre Vas of the Fidesz representatives expressed very self-consciously the Fidesz' commitment to the protection of personal data, the right to information self-determination, as if nothing was more natural. I had read this bill at the time, and, frankly, I had to control myself very much in order to reduce the laughing spasm. So you're really serious about this? One week, you're here preaching the protection of personal data, and then you throw one of these over here? What do you mean? How do you think such a bill can withstand either the consent of the Data Protection Office or the trial of the Constitutional Court in any way? And one more thing. How can they account for their conscience when they preach criminals here - without, of course, having set foot in a football match in the last few years - while they arrest a security man who has already been punished for violent crime and happens to provide football matches in the defense of your headquarters? Don't you have eyes when you're not talking about, by the way, sports and not just sports to this day, cultural events can also be controlled by companies who effectively terrorize guests? ! This is how it happened last weekend at the Punk Orchestra called Everyday Disappointments: a legal security company can beat people to death, and there is no legal guarantee. That doesn't bother you. But if anything threatens the safety of life and property, it's the rampage of these hordes! [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you.
u2014-06-11-97	Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech has been submitted by Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I resent it. It seems that András Schiffer cast a shadow because I brought up the example of a handball game, but in fact I was a certified player, and here István Apáti and I are from a county, and at the Nyíregyháza matches I appeared not only in VIP box. So let's just say that what we want to achieve - and I also ask myself, on my behalf, that we are anti-enthusiasts, because this amendment itself, and you know very well, there are more examples in Europe. If György Szilágyi brought up Barcelona here, I was there a year ago, and very quickly - there are a lot of renters among the Barcelona fans, and the atmosphere is there. 80-85 percent of them are hired, and those who came with tickets, or the Paris Saint-Germain or other cheerleading camp, have been introduced in a professional way with an identification system that was on the ticket, and this happened in seconds at the end of the game. I didn't have to... [[György Szilágyi: Didn't they have to put their hands there? And they didn't have to have eyes? The president's ringing the bell.]] Please, there are ways to identify. So I would like to say that we are not anti- cheerleaders, that we want to create order and security in order to protect the fans. And what László Varga said earlier is that how many viewers occur depends on the quality and quality of the sporting event, because we like to go to good football matches, and we like to play good football, and we like to be a safe spectator or a cheerleader there. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But give me specifics. Where has there been a scandal in all these years? Specifically.]] I would also like to say that at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, György Szilágyi and István Apáti, Szabolcs Szabó, member of the Committee, told us why he and his family are not going to these matches. You can check the records. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-99	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, Member of the Jobbik Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-100	Thank you very much. Congressman Vinnai is involved in a partial contradiction and does not take into account a very important difference. That's Barcelona and this is Budapest. It's a professional Spanish access system. Let's say that you have a lot of experience with access systems, ask Tamás Deutsch, who has a prominent seat on the EP list, and he could tell you about it for a very long time, and he could also write serious studies on how to release billions of dollars into an entry system that is still dusty in the warehouse. [[Dr. András Schiffer: He's gone!]] The serious tragedy is that, because of the non-use of the public access system purchased from public funds, it has not been given any legal or other liability, or at least no liability. Understand that, and perhaps you will be enriched with experience once you take the trouble - it will be familiar to Mr Vinnai, but I would say to Imre Vas, and I would say to the others, Mr Simon in particular - that you should once go with the ultra groups, get on a cheer bus, take a tour from early morning until late at night. Either they do what I did when I was a late young man, that if we started a Újpesten match at 11:30, then I went from Chenger to the capital, or the night before, or early at 8:00 a.m., we were on the subway, accompanied by so many policemen that they thought it was the 4th. In the district, there's a war movie going on, but I'm serious about this. Then they made such a professional access system even when 3,000 fradistas were introduced one by one, they said it was bombproof, by the way, and then the whole thing didn't hit a toss tree, because I think there were 12 people with one ticket, but it was enough that, since 3,000 people went in one by one, and the crowd often caused almost tragedies, they almost crushed each other to death, there was tension, there was almost a scandal because of the conditions of entry, but they couldn't achieve anything. (The chair is occupied by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament. In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.) I'm telling you, with a video camera system, a strict, quick application of the law, it's perfectly possible to avoid the beginning of the Notorius [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the appearance of disruptors. There's no point in dealing with this like this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. This is Congressman László Varga from MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of audiences, they're pretty clear and they're showing a downward trend. Here they are, talking numbers. Even before this new system was introduced, registration and entry were difficult, the number of viewers was 3645, and the average number of viewers was 2728 in one year. All I'm saying is, the longer they make it harder to go to the game, the more expensive the cost of it will be for a cheerleader, the lower the audience will be. These questions have not been answered. I think there have been a number of comments that raised completely relevant questions. I am very pleased that we have been able to listen to a personal experience, but what you have said here is not the answer to the specific question. Today's amendment of legislation is completely unnecessary, it does not serve the objectives that you have said here. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-103	Thank you, Congressman. Since there are no more than two minutes, we have reached the end of two minutes, and we will continue the debate with the proper speech of Mr László Kiss, from the MSZP faction. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-104	Thank you for the floor, fellow Members. I've been thinking about what the actuality of this proposal is. I am not as malicious as my fellow Members, as it is possible that my fellow Members from the Brazilian World Football Championships might think that this is the time to make this presentation. However, this may be naive, because obviously, as I have seen this presentation, I did not see a word about Brazil's stadiums in it, so it may be the legalization of the entry system that was already supposed to be built at Fradi. I don't know what the truth is. I'd like to believe that the Brazilian football world is the truth then. I'm a history teacher, and I'm not afraid to use it. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But I assure everyone that I will not talk for six to eight minutes about the situation of sport, as my fellow Members have done in the past. We have heard very beautiful and tearful speeches about how important sport is in history and how important it is in general. I absolutely confirm that, and I think the same thing. In fact, I do not think that there is a fellow Member in this Chamber who would think otherwise, since there are quite a number of fellow Members here in this Chamber who are sport-loving, sport-loving and often sporting events. Otherwise, I wouldn't deny that to anyone. [[14.00]] We obviously have different experiences with sports events. In connection with the visit of the Óbuda Vasas volleyball division myself, I have never seen experiences that have been reported to me by my fellow Members of the Fidesz. Although, no doubt, the person who mentioned earlier that cheering and looking meant a different quality. I recall - I myself am not an explicit football hooligan, this may be seen, so do not believe that I want to protect this community, but believe me - that even in this team, the Iron volleyball division, some fans who make the mood, the few fans who are there at every single game and fire the team can be very, very important, in many cases we can even see their feedback from the team. Of course, I can't ignore the historical example. The Amphitheater in Óbuda had a capacity of 12,000 people, perhaps not known. I would now be extremely pleased if the Óbuda team, which won in the Budapest league, had an average of one tenth of that. By the way, I think all Hungarian football teams could be happy with an average viewing number of 12,000. It is possible to wage a number war on how popular and unpopular Hungarian football is, but the Hungarian reality is that many people don't visit these games. Despite the fact that there may be no other sport in which the money was poured at such a rate by the representatives of the previous and current governments. Yet, despite the billions of government, virtually no impact can be seen. The question arises, of course, that I agree with the need to move towards family-friendly sports events. I agree that there is a need for order and security in the stadiums, although I think there is a need for football in football stadiums, there may be an increase in audiences. I accept that you have brought this proposal here with absolute goodwill, and I don't attribute any sanda intentions to anyone here. However, it must be noted that the directions that you set out in this proposal are not a means of achieving the objective you are talking about. But what are they talking about? It was said that there was no order in Hungarian sports, at Hungarian sports events. Several people asked to give an example of the types of disorderly conduct that you are thinking about, since there is obviously evidence to support this argument. That hasn't been said yet. In 2010, the Orbán government, newly standing, declared that football hooliganism would be abolished by 2013. A gentleman named Erik Bánki said that his name might be familiar to you. And he also said that they're gonna eliminate the fact that there's gonna be trouble at sports events. Now, here you are, that this has failed, and then the negative picture that you paint towards us and towards me on the safety of Hungarian sports events is unfortunately true, and in this case football hooliganism is performing better in this country, or what happens is that you exaggerate a little bit to justify the submission of football and sports events about what is happening there. I think I'm more inclined to agree with the latter. So it's a shame to argue that the government billions that go to football are ineffective. And frankly, I do not feel strongly that there are not hundreds of thousands, tens of thousands in the Hungarian stadiums because they dare not enter from the football hooligans. I completely agree with you, and I think that there is no man in this House who would disagree with the need to filter out football hooligans. To be honest, I'm just saying again, I may be naive, but I thought this was happening. I was of the opinion that the amendments to the law announced by you two years ago, including the entry into force of the new criminal code, would enable identification on the one hand and effective action against football hooligans on the other. I would just like to point out that in the new Criminal Code, all the measures that my fellow Members have discussed in an analysis of the English example are still in it. Maybe that's what we should do? If we have valid rules to reduce football hooliganism, then it might be more useful to follow these valid rules, which you have also made. But let's see what happens in particular. As long as the debate is going on, I've been searching the Internet for the manifestations of the last few years. I'll tell you the truth, I couldn't find any of the big negative manifestations you're talking about, but I'll be waiting to be enlightened. I found an article that analyzes the fact that one of the Hungarian teams will be punished in any case - an article published four hundred or so days ago - because of the activities of the fans that they have done here. This article says that the three-step model introduced by MLSZ - interruption, suspension, termination - was not used at the meeting, but the incident was included in the inspector's report, so the team will certainly have to pay. A group of fans repeatedly yelled racist passwords, but they did not exceed the prescribed continuous five seconds, so there was no interruption. So we are talking about the fact that an extremely complex and efficient system can already work, and the legal context for this is already in place. And if there is a legal background at the moment to eliminate football hooliganism and, in general, behaviors that we agree have no place in stadiums, then I don't know what the need for this amendment is. If you have had a historical example here, my fellow Members, allow me not to go back to Baron Coubertin, only to Tamás Deutsch - I think this kind of perspective will satisfy all the quality - and let us see what he had to do to eliminate football huliganism. In 2001, in the framework of a public procurement procedure, some 4 billion funds were spent on the entry system - one cannot say exactly how much, but certainly 4 billion. Several people remember that when they asked the former Minister what the fate of these access systems had become, given that it was surprisingly possible to meet him everywhere, in press statements, in party meetings, in production reports, but not in stadiums, he replied that he had never actually met this. It is indeed legitimate to be outraged by those who suggest that from 2001 we spent a lot of money on stadium entry, order and security, 4 billion forints, and then the Minister's reply, who had built this, ordered it, signed it, invented it, and did a number of other excellent things with it, is that he does not know what happened to this thing. Imagine when this happens at home, we go home, and our wife tells us if you paid the checks, we say you didn't. And what happened to the money that you got for this, and we say that we don't know that somehow it vanished into the whirlwind of time, and in the daily life of the busy day, it just vanished. That's why we feel that this isn't right. I am glad that now another opportunity has been given to the same company to build such a system again for billions of forints. I do not have a fear that my fellow Member Schiffer and my better Members have said, because I do not think that this system will implement unconstitutional practice for a simple reason, because it will not work. It's also interesting to look into each other's eyes: has anyone imagined this? If a cheerleader can choose to emigrate to the United States to want a complete investigation to get citizenship, or to go to a Vasas game to root for, then he will surely choose the easy way out and fly to Washington. Now you can really find a number of easier ways. For example, I suggest a complete C-type national security review, because from now on, that's really all that's gonna happen. Did we imagine how this was in Hungarian reality? We imagined that there would be an opportunity and obviously also a right to process our data or to process everyone's data, fingerprints, anything that wasn't prepared in any way. In no way! [[14.10]] So we imagined that the entire national security database would be built by Vasas or the other companies? We still feel that this thing, let's say, is extremely comical. It's a shame to talk about what's gonna happen if this happens, because it's not gonna happen. It's not gonna happen. Where this system has been bought, or some of its elements have been built, it is obvious that if this proposal is accepted by the Honourable Parliament, it will be used, and the others will flee into the great Hungarian slumber. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with your goals, but let's really try to imagine if this will work. I don't think this is gonna work. I think they're gonna have the same fate that they're gonna have for the expensive money that they're gonna have, if that's how they're gonna do it, like access doors. In the trash, or I don't know where they're going. Interesting, of course, and it would be good to ask those concerned about such proposals. The current head of MLS, with you, let's say, some friendly Sándor Csányi could have said something about this matter. Even because it would be very unpleasant for you to say the same thing you said to Tamás Deutsch about the access system. He said the state bought a plane for 4 billion forints here. Now I don't know what unpleasantness your friend Sándor Csányi will say when it's time to declare that this retina scanner and his friends, which is truly a joke, will work rather than how. Obviously, in itself, many people have said that it is comical, others say it is sad, but in itself it is shocking that our fundamental rights to constitutional fundamental rights may pose a risk of injury when I want to go to a football game. I have to face the fact that I would be treated by people who are otherwise not prepared for this in any way. I don't know, unlike my fellow Members, what these security companies are, I don't know what kind of people the employees are, I just assume the good of everyone, but let's look each other in the eye. Do we think that Hungarian sport is prepared for this? Are you prepared to build this system at every single stadium? Or will newer and more government billions go to build this? I think these are legitimate points. With all my positive feelings, I accept the goals you set, but I don't think we should fire a cannon at the sparrow. We do not want to reduce undesirable activities at sporting events in a way that is not suitable for this. Let us not do this cumbersomely, expensively, but with the tools currently in use in Europe. Trust me, the criminal code gives us an opportunity to identify him. It prevents them from building a video system, but it doesn't. Thank you for listening, and I would ask you to support this direction instead. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-11-105	Thank you very much. A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I may, I would like to clarify a few things, because I do see them, and in the last debate it has been revealed that they do not really understand or are not very much at home in the world of bleachers. What we are talking about at the moment, we say that this law applies to everyone, also to viewers who have never committed any crime in their lives. But I'll tell you what the world of bleachers usually looks like. The world of bleachers looks like there are simple viewers, there are simple viewers... [[Dr. Imre Vas and Dr. András Aradski laugh loudly.]] Tell me the difference between a hooligan and an ultra, if you're so enlightened. 'Cause I don't think you have anything. You don't even know the difference between, say, a hooligan and an ultra, or what the difference is between an ultra and a simple spectator. You can laugh here, only talk about things you don't even know what it is. You have no idea. You've never been to a game before. You've never been in a match before, bought a ticket, went through an entrance gate, and went through a checkup! He's never traveled abroad again in his life, let's say he was going to watch an international game where foreign troops play. Talk about something when you know what's going on. What's the difference between an ultra and a hooligan? Where are hooligans or ultras in Hungary? You guys keep thinking that people are being squandered here and called criminals who are, by the way, ultras whose world is six times better than yours. The world of those people is much cleaner, more upright and self-sacrificeful than yours. Because there, once you're a cheerleader for one of these teams, you're never gonna be in another group's cheer camp again. You're welcome to sit from one faction to another, if that's the way it is, and your wallet wants it. And these people...
u2014-06-11-107	Congressman! I'll stop him for a second. I'm sorry, a lot of anger is understandable, but it's not always practical. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-108	Mr. President. I fully understand your intelligence. I am angry and I started out normally because there are Members here who are laughing and making comments that have nothing to do with what we are talking about. He doesn't even know what's going on, and then he pushes the button at the moment. So, continuing with the things of the ultras and the cheering world: these people, with their own money, from their own time, often leave and encourage their team by taking on humiliations. With these people, the whole system is much clearer than it should be, let's say, your system. These are the people you say are criminals by doing nothing. They're trying to stop these people from getting into a stadium, if necessary. And you know what? They are the closest to the international level for the entire Hungarian football, from the leaders, from MLSZ to the players. They're the closest to international standards. They take up the international level of football or try to approach the level of international football. Our players, our club owners, the Hungarian Football Association are light years away from how it should work, let's say, an international football. That's the closest thing I've got to a cheerleader. You want to wipe these people out of the Hungarian stadiums. You don't need these people right now. Didn't Congressman Vinnai say that he was out in Barcelona, that he saw him, and that he would tell us how well he was treated there, and what identification was on the ticket. That's what we're talking about. Tickets should have identification, not palms or iris. On the ticket! Have a ticket that's normal, and there's nearly 90,000 people. Mónika Dunai said that the 17th edition of the book The sports hall is built in a district. I'm going to give you all my help in the 17th. The construction of a district sports hall. However, I hope you don't want this to happen in Section XVII. district residents will enter this sports hall by generating palm prints, iris samples, and all other biometric codes from their entire existence. Let them go into this sports hall. I'm sure it won't be a problem. By the way, he said it could negatively affect supply. You know what's negatively affecting supply? This is the current system. Because you said it, and really, what you said would be absolutely desirable is that you're going out with Dad, Mom, two kids, grandpa for a match, so let's just get this many people. Do you know what it's like to buy a lease a year? 300,000 forints. Today, 300,000 forints on the Olympian Road! Let's show you a family that can afford that. Because it can be said that there is a modern stadium where these fans get a normal service and that we take European prices into account, and that is, let's say, the rent price. The only thing we are ignoring is that today in Hungary people earn a quarter as much as in Western Europe. They can easily pay for this in England or Germany. It's easy for a family to go out there. But where can a Hungarian family afford to spend 300,000 forints a year to watch 15 games? No more than that, 15 games. You, in this system, are unfortunately not going to see mom and dad and two kids at the stadium because you can't afford them. She'd be happy to go out, but she can't afford it. Especially if we add what I said to that, if I want to take my daughter out today, they'll start imprisoning her as well. But I'll tell you something else. I talked to Gábor Kubatov, I asked him, tell me why it can't be this system. I told you, I'm gonna buy three tickets, say, to the Alien Road Stadium. It wouldn't be cheap, but let's just say we're not gonna sit in the most expensive place. I'll buy three tickets. And one week, I want to take my daughter out, and the next week, I might invite Mónika Dunai to watch a game with me. [[14.20]] Why can't I? I bought the lease. And why can't I take objective responsibility for the people I'm taking to the game? If you can take objective responsibility for a car, if I lend it to you, and you don't get the one who says it's speeding, then I'm being punished, why can't I take the same objective responsibility that the person I take out will behave normally, if he doesn't behave normally, then, here I am, being punished? I'll have responsibility for who I'm taking out. You know what Gábor Kubatov said? No way! I'll call you by name. And I asked him if it would be the only way to go to the VIP box to get down... Oh, no, that's 30 million forints. Anyone can go in there. Well, here's the difference: you can go to the VIP box, you can pay 30 million forints, you don't have to sign up for a cheerleader or anything, you can go there. It's that if someone buys a lease, they can't take whoever they want out there, even though they pay the price. By the way, to give you another example, do you know how it works in Barcelona, where you can get a lease on extinction grounds? In the same way that anyone can be brought in, there is only one restriction in Barcelona against black commerce: one day before the match, I have to cancel the person I want to take out, so if I want to take you out, I will e-mail you your name. It's just because at random, as you said at MLSZ, you may be contacted and asked whether I didn't sell my ticket more expensive or sell it for money, so you can't make a deal with it. In such things, I say it is once again a perfectly logical and normal provision, in which we too would be completely open, but we do not do what you would like here, that it is clearly directed against the fans and directed against the simple, normal viewers. And Andrea Pirlo's case is... - Andrea Pirlo is in the third most popular tournament, the third most watched tournament, and the third largest revenue championship, where they tried to sign up for the fans, so they didn't try to put in a code like this, they only introduced provisions similar to fan registration, and in a year, the number of viewers decreased by 20 percent. They started to forget all about it right away, because, you know, we need them. The other thing I would like to say and have said several times, but it may not have been summarised that this whole bill that has been tabled raises very serious constitutional, professional, human and moral concerns. So, I told you, they're practically abducting people who want to go to a sporting event. But of course, it is also amazing that a private-law person, i.e. an association, kft., rt., zrt. handle sensitive personal data of this kind. I don't know if you remember a few years ago, there were even heated debates about the need to put fingerprints in the passports, and even there there there were heated disputes as to whether this was appropriate, constitutionally correct, even though the state was handling these data. Therefore, the fact that the State manages such a set of data, or a completely private personality, association, Zrt., to which no one otherwise has any influence, is of absolute concern. Plus, there's a lot of people here who have told me that it's not just this hash code, there's a photo, mother's name, address that needs to be given, and I'm telling you, these are security companies and stuff. We should clean up here first. The Hungarian Football Association should be organized first so that it can't be 20 years, 25 years in well-paying jobs without any performance, so that Hungarian football doesn't develop. We should clean up the security companies that provide the matches. We should also clean up the police area so that the police don't always have to prove that they need him; we need the police, not just in sports events, but in other places, but there is an emergency situation in the police department that they do, because it means income to him, it generates revenue, it does call him matches. It shouldn't be, it could be obvious. Then there is a part of this draft that says that as it happened, they are obliged immediately to cancel the club card or to delete all data a few days after the match. Yeah, but what if the sports organizer doesn't do that? Who's gonna check this out? Who will verify that these private companies or security companies will not build databases from such special data from citizens, which even the state can only introduce in a limited manner? Who's gonna check this out? And I say that there is serious unconstitutionality in the proposal to mention only one or two things: Article I (1) and (3) of the Fundamental Law states: "The fundamental rights of the human being must be respected. Their protection is the highest duty of the state. So he shouldn't be the one to deliver it, he should be the one to protect it. The rules on fundamental rights and obligations are laid down by law. The fundamental right may be limited, to the extent strictly necessary, in proportion to the objective pursued, in order to safeguard other fundamental rights or a constitutional value, while respecting the essential content of the fundamental right. " I am quite sure that this proposal, or it will not pass, would not pass the necessary and proportionate test applied consistently by the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, we will do everything we can to ensure that, if you accept this proposal, we will do what we can legally against this proposal. In addition, in my opinion - to remain at the law - I think it is a violation of privacy, too, Mr VI. Article 1 (1); right to the protection of personal data, Article VI Article 8 (3); freedom of peaceful assembly and expression, VIII, IX Article 1 (1) and, of course, the absolute inviolability of human dignity. In my opinion, my fellow Members, consider whether this is appropriate and whether you intend to submit it. I do not believe that it should start from it, and that the fans should be ravaged, although it is apparent how ungrateful these fans are, because who watched the Debrecen Championship match, who could hear that sanddalum, that they were building stadiums in vain, that a new stadium was built in Debrecen, when it was announced that Viktor Orbán was going to hand over the cup, then a powerful whistle concert was heard at the stadium, so these fans were unthankful, but believe me, that it is not worth shaking them like this, because there is only one positive thing about this law, a bill proposal, and there is only one positive thing - this might be achieved - and this is the only positive thing that you can create in Hungary the total assembly of the various cheering camps. So it's possible that these different kinds of emotional cheer camps, they're gonna pull together and they're gonna make a pretty strong anti-government protest. If... And - once again, let me say this once again, so that there is no misunderstanding and that our words are twisted - if the fans' dissatisfaction will go to the point that these fans will be willing to stand together against your laws, the Jobbik Hungary Movement will stand by them with a full chest width. We do not organize these things to prevent them from twisting our words, we do not organize them, but if the fans are willing to stand up to this law for their own sake, they will be willing to stand up to such dictatorial laws and such dictatorial regimes, all kinds of support from the Jobbik Hungary Movement, all kinds of legal, normal legal support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-109	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the regular speeches from the Jobbik Group, to be followed by Mr Adam Mirkóczki, Member of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do not wish to complete the time frame, and I try to sum it up briefly. There is so much that has already been said in the professional and non-professional sense of this proposal that I would like to add only a very small, rather subjective addition to this whole proposal, which is really worth considering, since all the members of the government are referring to security, to the various criminals that we have not seen, to small children and family events as a goal behind this proposal. This is all right in itself, but the parallels that you have brought up - how shall I put it? - they're not in the same league as the Hungarian reality. So you can give an example here with England, you can give an example with Spain, you can give an example with Germany, I would go much closer, which is more like the Hungarian reality to a certain extent. [[14.30]] I am pleased that both Mr President and Mr Aradski are in the room, because we have been to a number of non-matches together, but in Poland, I would like to set a Polish example. A few weeks ago, I had the chance to be out in a Legia Warsaw-Wisla Krakow match. Here is the situation: in Poland, for example, pyrotechnic articles are not prohibited as we do. If you've got the laptops in front of you right now, on that particular video finder, just punch in that Legia Warsaw game or Legia Warsaw vibe, see what's there. For this reason, the MLSZ would ban that stadium for a minimum of, I don't know, months or how many games, and would punish the club for chandeliers in forints. The Hungarian police, with the majority of the fans, cannot imagine what they would do to them if they could, and how long the Hungarian court would shut these people down under the current regulations. Now, listen up. I went to this game. Legisa Warsaw has a relatively, very modern and very new stadium of 32 thousand, if I remember correctly, full house, from small children who, I swear, do not reach the age of two, to old old old old men, with families, while the sector behind the gate is just as full of the middle B and the middle B behind the gate - I am not used to looking up, but I am just higher than I am, how should I say, a little humorous, full of three-door built-in lads - all with Greek fire, creating an amazing atmosphere, and every single stadium in Poland has this atmosphere. What does the entry look like? No retina, no iris, no palm prints, I need an I.D., and I needed a passport. One I.D. and one ticket, that's all. And there's no trouble. I didn't see any cops, except outside of the stadium, who naturally guard the order so that there's no problem between the two cheer camps, but this has nothing to do with stadiums and the atmosphere in the stadium. And what's most interesting is that when I asked a lot of people, different-sex Poles of different ages, why so many people go to games in Poland, because their football is not better than ours - although, I add, there is a difference, so we would be humiliated at a much more and more selected level - how should I put it - if we were allowed to use this term, unfortunately - but basically there is no hair but a big difference between the Polish championship and the NB1. The difference between cheerleaders is between the huge atmosphere that every match there is full of marriages, and we have a ring, with the exception of a good derby or two. And every single responder, regardless of gender or age, said: we don't go to football games, and we don't wait every two weeks for the championship matches because, wow, we're good at the team, and we play wow but spectacular football, but because of the atmosphere. The mood cannot be restored, and nothing can replace what these organized cheerleaders provide. Then a day later, I had the opportunity to take part in another match - if I remember correctly, this Zagłębie Sosnowiec-Polonia Bytom third-class match - and now listen, third class, 15,000 spectators, huge contrast, because it was a crappy stadium, a crappy stadium compared to the new modern stadium in Legia Warsaw, with 15,000 spectators, and the two rival cheer camps had the same atmosphere. It's just in parentheses, it's like comparing it to the Putnok-Jasapi game. There I asked people why a Polish third - class game - a terrible, unwatchable game, unwatchable, boring - was a reason, and what made it good? That 15,000 people created such a mood. There is a certain curse word, which also means the same in Polish as in Hungarian, which sounded every second, in the two great rival camps between themselves, and from small children to old old old men, full of families, because of the atmosphere. Then they stretched out a drape that covered half the stadium with the following: a huge eagle, clothed in the uniform of the home camp, strangled a parrot, clothed in the jersey of the guest rival camp, and the sign was that tolerance on this earth was a weakness. Everyone at the stadium applauded that. I'm just saying this, for comparison, not as a tenth of it in Hungary, the MLSZ gives a penalty of millions of forints. The cheer camps, we accept that it's perfectly natural for them to tease each other within certain limits, that's always been the case, and always will be. The big difference is that we let them get their creativity and their energy into this, that they do different choreographs and visual elements, which are good for the club, because a lot more people will go out there, or we will ban them in Hungarian style and MLSZ-style and punish them, and then they will kill them, there will be no organized fans, there will be no fun matches, and we can build any stadiums, we can kill any amount of money in football, we won't bring back the moody matches in life that are still a Fradi-Újpest, Diósgyőr-Nyiregyháza, and the rest - I don't want to list - some clubs at their major matches. It's really not about anyone defending hooligans here, or anyone, I don't know what kind of trouble they'd stand up to, and the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, there are no such problems, there are no problems in Hungary that would justify imposing such harsh sanctions in any other field. There's no need for that. This will only make one sense that the mood will disappear in a short time. And you really don't have to go far, you can look at the surrounding countries, see how they treat them there. And it can be treated, it can be treated absolutely, you don't have to carry out such strict and incredibly overreacted legislation. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you for your attention, and I hope that you will consider the criticisms. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-111	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Jobbik Group, Mr István Apáti is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would ask the pro-government representatives, in particular Minister Shemyen, to respond in substance then to the presumption of collective guilt - because they have created a new concept of collective guilt and presumption of guilt in terms of word composition or expressions - why they are raising the presumption of collective guilt to law under the new iron law of Fidesz - as it is written here on paper - instead of developing a legal environment for quick, hard, decisive, exemplary punishment for those who actually commit, commit or may commit in the future an offence or possibly a crime, because those who commit an illegal act on a sporting event or a football match really do not have a place there, there is no place for crowd fighting, stabbing, etc. Punishing them, excluding them, sanctioning them is in everyone's interest, and we agree with that. But why do they assume that there are potential thousands or tens of thousands of criminals, from small children to older people? Think about it in its lifelike nature, if you want to let all 24,000 people in until the game starts, because the entry system on the old Fradi track had very serious problems. It took a lot of people, often five times, ten times as long to enter as before, in many cases, who arrived on time, one hour and a half before the game began, to reach the beginning of the second half. So you simply didn't think about what that could mean in working hours, physically, in numbers, in cheerleading numbers. On the other hand, I find it very strange that when in Hungarian stadiums they want to clean up in such a completely meaningless, expensive way and unconstitutionally, in a way that violates human rights, they did not really stand up, or not at all, in their opposition period, or just like Hungarian fans when Hungarian fans were subjected to verbal or physical insults or reproach in neighbouring countries or in disenfranchised areas. I am thinking here of November 1, 2008 - the disgrace in Dunaszerdahely, when the lake was destroyed by police, who, proven by video recordings, did not commit any illegal activity in the world. [[14.40]] A 17-year-old young man in Dunaszerdahely, who was in the first match of his life, almost died, had to be revived, for days in life because of the brutality of Slovak police officers due to Hungarian hatred, and under conditions and circumstances, after prior history that Hungarian police and Hungarian secret services may have been able to provide photos, personal data, special personal data to Slovaks, who were constantly fighting, terrorizing, threatening Hungarians who were virtually known for their faces and names as Hungarian cheerleaders or cheerleaders. Several Hungarian fans didn't even make it to the match, they were stripped naked, even videotaped by Slovaks about their tattoos. This could be done because the Balliberal Government of that time published and betrayed these fans, but it is only a part of the disgrace, in the framework of the still unclear Hungarian and Slovak police and/or secret service cooperation. You have done nothing, and we have repeatedly asked us to look at how Slovaks could have done this, even now, from the perspective of six years. I did not hear the representatives of the national Christian deep-Hungarian Fideszes-KDNP protesting this bloody manifestation of Hungarian hatred. Nothing happened, as it did not happen - it was supposed to be a right-wing government - in mid-September 1992, when Ferencváros fans were also beaten in the area of state formation called Slovakia. In either place there were no fradists or fans, Hungarians were beaten everywhere, just because they are Hungarians, because they speak Hungarian, only because they hate Hungarians, at least some of the Slovak police and a significant part of Slovak fans - because they are accurate - hate Hungarians and hates Hungarians with their heart. Or why you didn't tell me at the time, obviously it doesn't have to be settled in a draft law, but either a resolution proposal or a symbolic proposal for a resolution was submitted, as far as I know, when in the summer of 2009 at the Steaua Bucharest-Újpest match - I won't quote it here now, because it was a terrible sentence - Romanian fans in Hungarian raised a shameful, shameful, unappreciated display to Hungarian mothers and Hungarian children. That the Balliberal Government didn't protest, so what do we expect of them, but you didn't raise your voice either, and you didn't stand up for the Hungarian fans, although this was just a verbal insult. So you, if you are verbal, if you are physically insulted by the Hungarian fans, you will not deal with them. At a time when nothing is done, after the experience of all these horrors, such as those in Bucharest or Dunaszerdahely, they are now faced with being subjected to family visits and to legal disadvantages and other disadvantages that they did not deserve and did not deserve, on a continuous basis, as I mentioned earlier. How much better it would be if we were to debate or talk about how, with the involvement of cheerleading groups, the fans' communities, we could enhance the atmosphere in the most noble sense of the word in a legal context, managed, regulated framework, with the indication of those responsible, where appropriate. For another example in the EU, it is not illegal to use pyrotechnics in Italy, it can also be used in Italy. Of course, everything can be banned here, but the ballpoint pen can be banned because it can also be used to kill a person by turning "educated " hands in this sense. Well, everything can be used for normal mood-creating purposes and for illegal purposes. Why are we not talking about enchanting the above-mentioned Polish image or Polish atmosphere, which has been very figuratively displayed by Congressman Mirkóczki? We have the human resources, we have the personnel, we have the commitment of the Hungarian fans. If football were a little better, and the fans saw a partner, and not an enemy and not a criminal, not a life form to be wiped out - because they realize that this is not a simple hobby or passion, it is a way of life, a lifestyle, if you will. If you see a partner in the cheerleader, then on the one hand, your judgment in the cheerleading groups - and not one or two thousand people, but a lot more people, or if you're interested in that, much more voters - would be more likely to increase your popularity and acceptance. No, you don't want it to be a good mood, and you don't want a football game to become a play, you want to take out the rest of the supporters, you want to keep them out of the way with regulations that only represent billion-dollar orders for your economics station, the economic environment close to you. Think about it, withdraw it, or if you do not do so, we will go until this is repealed, or at least we will not be able to prevent the practical introduction and application of this, because this - if you always refer to it - has become a fashionable term in your circle - does not correspond to any European norm, no human rights norm, and, as has already been said here many times, there is no justification in the world. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-113	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén is next. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2014-06-11-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me make a brief reflection - now let's put the rhetorical part in brackets - about Dunaszerdahely. The congressman wasn't here at the Parliament at the time, and me and Tibor Navracsics were in the room with two hundred MEPs and SZDSZ representatives. As regards Dunaszerdahely, I have spoken and protested on several occasions, and whenever Hungarian fans were insulted and attacked, we always stood by them. In addition, as regards the rights defenders, we also support effective action in the country in question. As regards Dunaszerdahely only, I would like to clarify that I was sitting there myself. [[point to his previous chair]] And I protested from there, protesting Ferenc Gyurcsány in every way possible. I predict that I do not feel, in any sense, to say the anointed apostle of sports safety-technical issues. The intention on the part of the government is to use these security measures to protect well-intentioned, decent fans from insults. If there are proposals to help this goal, we are, of course, prepared to consider it in substance. It is also not my duty to act on their behalf in the interests of security workers, and I also think that it is unacceptable to have criminals in their ranks, but just as it is unfair to regard the fans of the hard core as a definite criminal, it is equally unfair to label security service providers as defined beasts. I think this is the basis for consensus and discussion that the hard core has the right to cheer within the given constitutional forms, and security workers must be given the respect that they are there to protect order and decent cheerleaders. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-115	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr György Szilágyi is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that Deputy Prime Minister Semyen stood up and spoke - that is what I would suggest to you - because when we have a dialogue, we can discuss certain things in this matter. One of them is that he takes note of what he has said about Dunaszerdahely, and the other is that what you have just said to me is becoming more and more convinced that certain people, someone here, are leading the entire government along with this law. Because we agree with the goal, so that's what you're saying, so that it's safe and normal to root in family-friendly stadiums, and everything else, we agree - that's not what this is about. The problem is, this bill that lies before us isn't about that. I hear these sentences here from many of you, to be safe in the stadium, woe what they shout, woe, the Greek fires, woe that, woe that, and that is why honest fans do not go out for a match. Well, I'm just gonna ask you one question: what's a riskier match, a Mezőkövesd-Pushás Academy game or a Újpest-Fradi? You're probably a lot less likely to hear rhymes at the Mezőkövesd-Pushás Academy game, to fire Greek fires or anything like Újpest-Fradi. Then tell me why there are only a thousand people in one of the matches, the Mezőkövesd-Paks match, when families can go cheering in peace, and why there is a house full of Újpest-Fradin. And if you look at the bleachers, there are a lot of little kids and a lot of women. [[14.50]] Because of what my colleague Mirkóczki has just said: because it is in the mood, because they are enjoying themselves, because they also love this Hungarian football today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it's much better to watch a Hungarian football match for me than any high-quality English game. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-11-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. [[To the candidate István Apáti:]] Dear Abbot Congressman, I would like to inform you that the President is giving us the opportunity to speak again. You have logged in for the repeat of the repeat, and there is no house regulation in this regard. I cannot speak for two minutes because, according to the two-minute circle, only one faction can speak in accordance with house rules, and if you recall, Congressman György Szilágyi has just said this two-minute speech. [[István Apáti: I've been looking for a loophole, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Vas Imre reporting.]] Yes, Mr Vas Imre, on behalf of the rapporteurs, summarizes and responds to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would quote the bill 2. Article 72/A of the Sports Act. It also amends paragraph 2 of this Article. The organizer, the owner of the club card for identification purposes, the image, the iris image of this person, or [[He's taking a moment's break. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Read it for the first time!]] You can use an alphanumeric code generated from your vein imprint, unreplicable, secret, algorithmized. This is an alternative, so it does not mean that you can treat all three of them. In addition, the bill creates the possibility that the club, let's say, generated from a vein print. [[István Apáti: It's like when you read it for the first time!]] treat hash code. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But that doesn't mean that it's always mandatory. That means that if the club decides to give out a club card to the person whose code you're using, it can release it. Because these codes are a much safer way to identify people. The club cards had a photo earlier, which is not so safe to say that the club card owner is going to the match with him or any other, but the other two, so the iris image and the hash code will tell you with certainty if that person is there. So there is absolutely no mention here of what more people have mentioned, of stacking data and other things, but of the fact that the law gives the club the opportunity to decide what kind of data they handle. So it's an alternative. Thus, although my fellow Member Schiffer was no longer interested in the end of the debate, the principles of purpose and proportionality were also guaranteed. Because you don't handle any more data than is absolutely necessary. For our part, we do not consider fans, security personnel, club owners or club operators, not even football players, any of them as criminals. We don't think they are. Of course, the system serves to eliminate offenders from the stadium and allow families to enter safely. It has been mentioned that it takes a very long time, on the one hand, to replace the club card and, on the other hand, to enter with it. Buying a club card takes up to three minutes [[István Apáti: It came to me in a year!]] And it's already speeding up the entry. So with this system, not only would it be slower to enter, it will be much faster. This is also one of the purposes of the law so that larger masses can enter the stadiums more quickly. Unfortunately, my fellow Member Schiffer always remembers certain entrepreneurial circles. He may just be starting out on his own, I don't know, but any bill we put forward should be about taxes, whatever it is, my fellow Member Schiffer has the same idea. The amendments will, of course, be considered. What is in line with the concept of the bill will be supported, and I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-11-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Further amendments can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain tax laws and related other laws until closure. Jenő Manninger and our Fidesz colleagues, Lajos Szűcs, made their own motion T/168. They could be accessed and reached on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Budgets to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-120	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to bring the development tax relief programme into line with the changed EU legislation. The proposal defines the concept of identical and similar activities as well as new economic activity, which is important because in certain developed areas in the future large enterprises can benefit only from tax relief for start-ups to undertake new economic activities. An activity classified in the same sector of the TEAC shall be considered as identical or similar activity. In Hungary, in accordance with the approved aid map, the following regions can benefit from tax relief on the basis of the initial investment: North Hungary, North Great Plain, South Great Plain, South Transdanubia, Central Transdanubia, Western Transdanubia. For small and medium-sized enterprises which make new investments worth at least HUF 500 million, the conditions for using the tax relief will become more favourable. Taxpayers can choose either to increase the number of employees or to increase the annual wage cost to a predefined extent as a condition for the tax relief. A number of other proposals are included in the submitted bill, such as the extension of the technical notification procedure of the Ministerial Decree containing detailed rules in connection with the 2013 Act on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products, and the change in the status of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office in 2013. In the future, the proper functioning of the fuel marking monitoring system is not justified by the use of different indications per product group to significantly reduce the operating costs of the system. The bill also amends the deadline for 1 July 2015 as described in the proposal. The amendment of the 2013 Act on the National Bank of Hungary clarifies that the MNB has the right to hold a payment account in HUF and foreign currency for all payment systems, and in this context it was necessary to clarify the authorisation provisions. In addition, as of 1 July 2014, the VAT liability on periodic transactions will be changed in the VAT Act. The proposed amendment requires the conversion of invoicing systems in companies, so it is necessary to postpone the entry into force until 1 January 2015 in order to ensure adequate preparation time. In addition, the new Ptk. It is necessary to amend the Savings Deposit Act in order to ensure that the deposit contracts of natural persons remain subject to legal protection. I'm asking you to support the motion. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-11-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Minister Mihály Varga if he wishes to speak. [[On the mark of Mihály Varga:]] Yes, I'll give you the floor in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Minister. [[15.00]]
u2014-06-11-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It will not be 30 minutes, Mr President, I can say this, but allow me to add a few words, a few additions, to the T/168 on the amendment of certain tax laws and related other laws. A bill. The aim of the bill is to implement amendments for harmonisation purposes, to ensure consistency between domestic legislation and to assist in the application of the law. The General Block Exemption Regulation providing a legal background for development tax relief and the Regional State Aid Guidelines covered the period 2007-2013 of the European Union. For the 2014-2020 budget period, the European Commission has developed new guidelines and a general block exemption regulation for aid compatible with the internal market for Member States, which will enter into force on 1 July 2014. The amendment of the corporate tax law aims to ensure that, despite changing EU legislation, Hungary continues to be able to encourage companies' willingness to invest by means of tax relief to the best possible extent. Accordingly, the draft law establishes the basis for regulating the development tax relief necessary to preserve Hungary's competitiveness, thus avoiding the fact that the development tax incentives requested after 1 July 2014 constitute prohibited State aid. In addition to EU compliance, the proposal removes the title of aid for energy efficiency investments on the basis of experience in the application of law, as an independent environmental investment remains eligible. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, it reduces the employment and wage increase criterion by half and clearly sets out the procedural rules on which companies can benefit from tax relief in order to facilitate the use of the tax relief. Dear House, In order to ensure adequate preparation time for the taxpayers concerned, the proposal postpones the entry into force of an amendment to the VAT Act on the date of establishment of the tax liability for periodic transactions by six months in the field of general turnover taxation. The proposal postpones the introduction of a system for marking and checking fuels by one year to 1 July 2015, due to the delay in the EU procedure for notification of the draft NFM regulation containing detailed rules. On the other hand, in order to reduce the operating costs of the system, the proposal makes it possible to use a type of marker for different products. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of both the Decree-Law on savings deposits and the Act on the National Bank of Hungary is justified by clarification of the application of the law. The proposal concerning the savings deposit clarifies that it is still possible to grant Lombard credit to natural persons with a deposit cover, for which detailed rules are laid down in the new Civil Code. The proposal concerning the National Bank clarifies that the central bank is still entitled to hold accounts for credit institutions' clearing houses. Dear House, I would ask that the bill be supported by the honourable Parliament on the basis of the reasons given. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-123	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-15-minute timeframe. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, for the first time, as has already become a practice under house rules, this can only take place after the speech of the lead speaker, and that only one Member and the first independent Member from each group of Members have the opportunity to comment. I now give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-124	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Fellow Members! It is a small, but more important, legislative amendment proposal. My fellow Member Manninger and the Minister have said that I would also like to add a few amendments to what has been said. It has been said that the Savings Deposit Act is the new Ptk. The rules on savings deposits should also apply to the payment account contracts and deposit contracts of natural persons, with effect from 15 March 2014. At the same time, the Savings Deposit Act maintains that no pledges can be obtained for the savings deposit. Because it's the new Ptk. under his bail law, bail can be set up as a pledge, and the current provision can also be interpreted as a ban on the provision of guarantees, while the new Ptk is also a ban on bail. regulates in very detail the bail established in the payment account and does not exclude the possibility for the consumer to do so. The proposal therefore clarifies that it is still possible to grant Lombard credit to natural persons under deposit cover. As far as corporate tax is concerned, the proposal essentially ensures that in the future corporate, so-called development tax relief can continue to be used under unchanged conditions for investments in Hungary, thus continuing to ensure the competitiveness of the Hungarian corporate tax system. The actuality of the legislative amendment is justified by the change in the background for EU State aid. In view of the change in EU legislation, consistency between domestic legislation on development tax incentives and EU law should be established from 1 July 2014 in order to allow taxpayers to apply for development tax relief from 1 July 2014. In view of the fact that the European Commission only published the relevant rules on 21 May 2014, which should preferably enter into force in domestic legislation as early as 1 July 2014, a rapid amendment of corporate tax is essential. The proposal therefore aims primarily at EU compliance. In the framework of EU compliance, the proposal reduces the scope of eligible investments in the Central Hungary region and eliminates the eligibility of broadband internet services in the form of tax relief and imposes an obligation to provide information from recipients of the tax relief online to the State tax authority in order to increase transparency. The title of investment in broadband internet services has been removed from eligible titles because, contrary to the eligibility of investments for this purpose, the European Commission imposes additional conditions which are incompatible with the system of tax relief. In other words, while a tax advantage is automatically granted if the legal conditions are met, because of the change in EU legislation in terms of broadband internet investment, only one service provider can be granted in a given region, which means that, on the one hand, this service provider must be selected by means of a tender and, on the other hand, the winner must provide access to other service providers. Obviously, the regulation of such a tendering system goes beyond the specific regulatory logic of the tax relief, which, as indicated, is not based on tendering but on automation, and therefore, in the future, support for investments in broadband internet services cannot be granted in the form of tax incentives. In the case of the VAT, an amendment to the rules on the date of establishment of the VAT liability on periodicised transactions would enter into force from 1 July 2014. Since this change requires the conversion of invoicing systems for the companies concerned and may entail liquidity difficulties, in order to provide adequate preparation time for the changeover, the amendment of the VAT Act postpones the entry into force by six months, until 1 January 2015. [[15.10]] The issue of imported oil has already been discussed by my fellow Member Manninger, and the MNB Act requires clarification that the Hungarian National Bank is also entitled to hold an account in forints and foreign currency for the so-called giro system that operates the credit institution's payment system. Since this can only be derived indirectly from the current legislation, this amendment contains clarification. On this basis, I propose the adoption of the law in the House, both as an author and as the lead speaker of Fidesz. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Sándor Burány. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The way the bill is presented is rather interesting, but not unusual. Although the new house rule does not know the notion that it is an urgent and exceptional way of negotiating, with substantially unchanged content, the new house rule has provided for an exceptional negotiation in these cases, but neither Fidesz nor the government seems to have noticed it and is essentially continuing its operation in an urgent, exceptional way. This is a bad practice and a bad practice, and this urgent and exceptional practice, which often leads to a hassle, is the fact that the most important decision-makers of Fidesz submit the central will in the form of various motions, while there would be no obstacle to the current government, if the tax laws are affected by a change, proposing to change the law itself. Of course, in this case too, it would be right to ask why this haste is justified, why the Hungarian Parliament should, in essence, adopt important laws after a few hours of debates. It is also unclear whether Fidesz and the government are now fighting for freedom, or if they want to comply with the EU's will. In the explanatory memorandum to this bill, which has also been mentioned orally, it has been mentioned several times that this is required by EU harmonisation, and as a result of such EU standards, it is necessary to apply the Hungarian laws. I note that Fidesz could really decide whether it is the practice now to stand up for Hungarian interests, and it is not necessarily necessary for a Member of Parliament to submit an amendment to the law if the laws, guidelines in Brussels change or what we want to do in this situation. Some of the elements of the bill are of concern because we do not see exactly what the future will bring. Although there have been bold sentences here about what will happen in the future, and when we learn about EU legislation, we will have to create some law in the Hungarian Parliament, but the fact is that in this bill, in essence, after the announcement, tax incentives such as energy efficiency and the current development tax incentives for broadband internet investment will cease. In parentheses, I note that a few hours ago, at the debate of another law, L. Simon László greeted the suggestion of his representatives to have free access to the Internet throughout the country. So we have not taken great steps forward in this matter, but already in the debate on another bill on the same afternoon, another Member of the Parliament of Fidesz proposes to eliminate development tax incentives for investments aimed at delivering broadband Internet to as many households as possible, even if not on the free internet. Well, it is called unpredictable governance, honourable Members, which, if such substantive concerns were not raised, but all well-intentioned initiatives in the bill, would still be of concern. We would like the government to return to normal practice; not hidden, not in disguise, to submit various legislative proposals, which obviously reflect central will, but the established government, now accompanied by 41 State Secretarys-General, would agree that this is his position and submit it to the Hungarian Parliament, of course, as required by the laws, and, as otherwise appropriate, to conduct the necessary social consultations on the bill with professional organisations, interest protection organisations and, if necessary, civil society organisations. This haste, this unpredictable governance, has serious consequences, my fellow Members, has consequences also abroad, and has consequences also in the country. It is not surprising when different foreign credit rating agencies have a bad opinion about the country's economic policy and, as a result, the country's economic policy outlook. It is no wonder that domestic investors, those who would still have money, who could still be creditworthy and otherwise take advantage of preferential borrowing opportunities, do not start their investments, because it is difficult to make any business decision in a country where there is a time frame of a few hours and after an immediate vote, a tax burden of $10 billion can be imposed on a sector in basically one day. This is all, but not predictable, and it should not be surprising if, as a result of the decisions taken by domestic operators, investments, although they have certainly moved from a tragically low point, continue to flow in low-critic quantities instead of starting up the economy and creating jobs, and we cannot be surprised if, after such hasty and unpredictable governance, there is no better opinion of the country abroad. It is not much for clarity and predictability, however, if we are faced with hiding in different interviews, it is likely that next week the government - at least now the government - will propose a change in the fiscal law. Obviously, in the context of some investments, this also means changing the number of deficits, and this can only be concluded by representatives and factions leaders, and what is the practice in the Parliament, we have seen here today as well. As a result, our foreign perception is as bad as we can experience in domestic market players' decisions to postpone investment. I would just like to refer to the fact that recently Fitch Ratings, one of the large credit rating agencies, left Hungary in the category not recommended for investment, i.e. in the category of bóvli, without expecting any improvement in prospects. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, To sum up: we understand the requirement of harmonisation of laws, and we therefore take the view that only a bill that is openly, as part of a comprehensive concept, after a social debate, comes to the Parliament's table in the form of the government itself. This hasty legislation, the various products of this hasty legislation, in which we cannot see what is coming in a few months' time, on our part, on the part of the socialists, on the one hand. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-11-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-128	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult to assess in itself the package of proposals before us, because, on the one hand, there is an urgent rush, so that small, often just methodological amendments had to be made quickly even now, with the reference that in the near future the whole system should be touched at a deeper level, or even at the budget. [[15.20]] In addition, a larger, ultimately restrictive package, whether in autumn or in the end, is also suggested to amend a number of tax-type laws, for example, in order to give some companies time to change the billing system or to switch, it is possible to draw very serious budgetary conclusions from this package. And we can also see that this package of proposals, at first glance, contains small things, contains technical things, and is actually missing a very, very important thing behind it: the whole career that this government and the economic policy that will succeed in the next four years. Another issue, of course, is that in the absence of an existing government programme, as in the parliamentary campaign, it was difficult for those who tried to predict the economic policy of Fidesz-KDNP to tell what will happen next autumn, what will happen next year, or what the austerity package, which will be almost certain from the current career up to 2016, will affect the sectors to what extent it will hit them. We can see that even if we only calculate government-related expenditure, it is estimated that the deficit could reach up to 3.2 percent of GDP this year. This brings about a 100 billion-dollar adjustment this year, which, in some way, with an increase in revenue and a reduction in expenditure, must be resolved by the government. Even if you solve this with some kind of technical trick, you will certainly have a austerity package from this career until 2016, and the reasons for this are not from the government program, because there is no such thing as a program, not from the parliamentary election campaign, because there is no such thing, but from statistical data that show in an incredibly talkative way what has been caused by something called economic policy in the last four years, which has had thoughtful moves, but also has been hasty and hasty mistakes. This whole mass has brought Hungary to the point that we can draw serious conclusions, but we do not anticipate the government's course of action. Therefore, although there are a number of positive points in the proposal before us, I am thinking of all the things that make life easier for Hungarian small entrepreneurs and medium-sized enterprises, I am thinking of what might benefit certain Hungarian regions, but we do not see the strategy, vision, or career behind it altogether. Therefore, although I do not want to anticipate how the Group of Jobbik will vote on this bill, as it could even be changed to the right, I am sure that this is very little in this form. It's very hasty, a little thoughtless, and we also need to see that this is coming from something. Next, if we look at the last four years - now we can turn to this terminology - so we look at the last four years, the period from 2010 to 2014, then we see that the former Orbán government has taken over the government with 34 central taxes from the socialist, 8 years of hard-working government that wiped out part of the Hungarian economy in eight years and delivered Hungary to the international banking system. Think about the increase in foreign currency loans, and think about putting multinational companies in position. So after such a catastrophic 8 years, the Orbán government took over the baton with 34 central types of transmitter. Problem is, we're finding 41 of these today. And instead of leading to restrictions in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, most of them have not been introduced, but have exacerbated the situation with newer tax types, which has already been serious enough after 8 years, and it can be seen that, not to say it myself, these figures say, since the then government change, the nominal revenue of the budget has increased, rather than by almost 32 percent above inflation, from 2009 to 2013. It can therefore be seen that while the tax burden on companies has not increased substantially, at least not at a level such as that of the population, the population's burden and, in particular, the total burden passed on to it has risen brutally. And I also see that it is not the direct taxation of the population that shows a high level and an increase, but I can see that the indirect effects it has, the passing-on, are very serious, can be measured by tens of percent during your previous four-year cycle, and we have also come to the point of why this small cosmetic package, which is currently in front of us, is very small and painfully weak. We can also see that, while the so-called special taxes remain, the transfer of the bank special tax, transaction tax, telecommunications tax replaced by the special tax is continuous and can be seen in all sectors, where there is 100%, some where there is more than one hundred percent, because we also find a banking sector and structure where the companies concerned have passed much more than the tax imposed, typically without consequences. But it can also be said that even in cases that are as simple as insurance tax, there is also the fact that it is possible to pass on directly, even though it is paid directly by policy holders. The accident tax is also an extra tax on motorists, and this must be paid as part of compulsory motor vehicle liability insurance. At the same time, there has been another gap, as the local business tax on municipalities, which was used to be collected by the APEH, has been transferred to the scope of a good percentage of it being able to stay there and be used in certain cases, however, and in addition to that, the municipalities can hold 40 percent of it with the motor vehicle tax, the construction tax, the land tax, the soil load charge and the tourist tax can create another plier for a double press. By the way, there are types of tax that I can support more than just negative things, which I can support to a certain degree and along a certain philosophy. For example, the public health product tax, which can be called a potato tax, whatever else it may be called, is, in any case, a philosophy behind it that is not a base job. How they have been implemented and how they have spent their income is a very long debate. But there have also been some pretty amazing baptisms, which also did not change the fact that 41 out of 34 became tax types in some way. An ectant example of this is the abolition of employers' social security contributions, which, in turn, has become a social contribution tax. The main problem with this is that in many cases it is no longer mandatory to spend income on pension purposes because of the partial elimination of strapping, so the guarantee or at least one of the pillars of the Hungarian people's pensions has been knocked down and dismantled, which is completely unacceptable. But we can also see, if we look at the structure of the last four and a quarter years, so the structure on which they want to cosmetics in a minimal and insufficient way, then we can see that the VAT on basic food and at least the items needed for child rearing would continue to be around 3000 billion per year in the state register, though this is typically followed by personal income tax, but perhaps it would have been possible to intervene in the VAT structure if Jobbik suggested that the VAT on basic food and at least the items needed for child rearing would have been reduced to 5 percent first, and then later, after boxing with the Union, to up to zero percent. At the time, not only would the situation of Hungarian families have been more rosy than at the moment, but perhaps Hungary would have been closer to overcoming the population disaster that undermines the entire economic structure. I mentioned the social contribution tax, from which an income of around 2000 billion comes from the social security funds, which, in fact, puts the pension of Hungarian people at risk in the future. Moreover, we have just entered the first year in which the pension fund is no longer able to cover current pension expenditure. From this point forward, it will be necessary to add budgetary resources, and some experts estimate that the interest burden on public debt will be repaid by between 1200 and 1300 billion billion a year, and that the amount with which the social security funds, the pension system, will have to be replaced year by year. So if we have such a cosmetic package before us, we should at least find references to what the government is planning for autumn next year, if it squeezes us, what it would touch. As a consequence, and depending on this, it is possible to determine the type of preferences that small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs, and even Hungarian families can enjoy in order to get through this, the inescapable spiral of austerity resulting from your economic policy. Obviously, if the Jobbik were to shape economic policy, we wouldn't necessarily be talking about austerity. But what we can see is that while the tax burden on companies, as I said, did not change substantially between 2009 and 2014, in terms of direct taxes on the population, i.e. personal income tax and taxes, this burden has decreased from HUF 2020 billion to approximately 1650 billion per year over the past four years. However, the revenue lost here was far above the indirect burden and the passing-on to the people, which was amazingly... - if we look at the 2009 figures, 3000 billion of these new types of taxes were roughly passed on to them, by then it was more than 4280 billion last year. [[15.30]] Thus, there has been an amazing increase in the burden on the population indirectly or in the form of passing-on. In the end, the goal, which the Minister has repeatedly stated, is that the Hungarian population cannot avoid eating, because he wants to feed, because he wants to keep his home in order or expand it, so the reason that we will tax consumption well is a little hypocritical, since the majority of the families in Hungary cannot afford any luxury consumption expenditure. Those who do not see this do not live in Hungary. The current budgetary structure and the growth of the Hungarian economy, which is said to be rosy, is that the increase is up to 2.7 percent, because of what? Almost exclusively temporary effects: high levels of public spending and expenditure; the violent spin of foreign factories operating here often to the detriment of Hungarians, because the foreign government enjoys the benefits, benefits, i.e. the revival of foreign and often non-public car manufacturing companies; the rapid roll-out of EU funds from the EU budget cycle, not because the current government of Hungary is skilled or less skilled; and the various economic types of interventions of the Hungarian National Bank, where, say, most of the various billions of growth programmes were taken away by non-Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, were taken away by subsidiaries of multinational companies operating here. Once again, we have not been able to contribute to what would have been the basic goal of strengthening small and medium-sized businesses that work for about two thirds of Hungarian citizens, but again the foreigner, the multi was the more beautiful one. Unfortunately, the policy that can be seen with regard to banking matters, as the working breakfasts with the Banking Association multiply, is slowing down the spirit of action in terms of the rescue of the victims. Here, too, we see that as more and more slices leak out of the government's economic policy plans or package, we see that for Hungarian entrepreneurs, this is becoming a dark picture and painting. These once-in-a-lifetime effects I mentioned may indeed contribute to something that appears to be a 2.7-percent economic increase, which is not an indicator that measures the performance of the real Hungarian economy. Without these, there would be somewhere between 0.5 and 1 percent growth in the economy. But we also need to see that a 100 billion-dollar adjustment is coming out of the current career this year, and until 2016. And although, throughout the whole parliamentary campaign, the Prime Minister, in fact, had a single promise from the mouth of a member of the government, this was to try to move from 16 per cent of the single-key tax to the one-digit, I think, the nine per cent. But we also need to see that, in principle, if they now realize that single-key taxation was a huge mistake and caused huge economic damage in Hungary, it would be too late to withdraw, but it would be much better than never. After all, we can see that the effects of single-key taxation are essentially 85 percent - already the positive effects - in and around Budapest, where it was perhaps the least necessary, although all Budapesters and the counties of Pest need to ease their burdens, but not in the Rose Hill, but in the poor people's circles and the poorer citizens. At the same time, we can see that this single-key form would make sense if we had progress in the system, so that we included multinational companies in the public burden-sharing, on the one hand, and the banking and financial institutions sector on the other, and, thirdly, we would also consider that we are not sure that the small man should be burdened with the same tax burden, the one that some state organisations, in the news that has just been published, say that it is possible to make a living of 87 thousand forints. We do not want to burden them with additional, even 16 percent, keys. However, there are economic operators that we do want, whom we do want to involve in public burden-sharing, but we see that there is no room for substantial and structural change on the basis of the current government economic policy path. It would obviously be different under a Jobbik government, but we also have to say that, as long as the level of public debt can rise to 81 percent even during this period, if we consider the percentage of... - so the Orbán government also lost the fight against sovereign debt, lost the fight to save Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, and also the river to save the bank's credible. This is therefore the point where restraint should be exercised and, even now, at the last minute, instead of such a cosmetic package, create the basis for real changes. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-11-130	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, There are three critical points in the bill that make LMP unable to accept and support the package submitted. The first point why the proposal submitted cannot be supported is the removal of energy efficiency investments from the beneficiary areas. Increasing energy efficiency and saving must be a fundamental national objective, since its effects are complex and positive. Responsible management of resources, energy independence, tens of thousands of jobs and improved quality of life can be achieved through a single programme. Energy efficiency can be facilitated by many means: investment aid, VAT reduction, development tax reduction, the creation of tender resources, and a stable environment where the return on such investments can be calculated. The Hungarian government does not apply any of them, and now it also takes energy efficiency investments out of the beneficiaries of the development tax reduction. This is unacceptable to the LMP and it considers this to be an irresponsible step towards the future. However, film and video production as a beneficiary area remained in the law. Besides, this area absorbs billions of tax forints with questionable profits. We do not understand why entertaining is more important than ensuring that basic needs are met, such as affordable housing. The second critical point is to weaken job creation. The bill weakens the expected job-creating effect of tax relief investments. This cannot be seen as a positive development, as this means that fewer people can make a living using unit of public money, while the government is not very effective in this area, and has now lowered its needs. Instead of reducing the requirements, the threshold for investments worth aid should be reduced. If the government were willing to support not only the larger ones and the multinationals, but also smaller businesses, even family businesses, there would be enough candidates and investment to meet higher job demands. Instead of financing a hundred billion-dollar stadium constructions with a minimum job creation effect, the State should provide an opportunity for marketable small businesses. The third critical point in the proposal is to postpone the introduction of the fuel marking scheme voted on last December. The problem with this isn't that they're delaying it, it's that they're not canceling it. The whole measure is a typical example of reckless legislation. Impact studies, without prior consultation, are likely to carry something through Parliament under the pressure of some background lobbies, and then start the rush later when it turns out that the idea is wrong, and it is also ineffective. In addition, there is a risk that it will revive one of the most damaging activities of the past 20 years that have caused huge damage to society as a whole, oil-bending or coloring. There is only one use: printing companies would receive high-value and stable orders at the expense of fuel users. For LMP, this part of the bill would be acceptable if it repealed the whole measure. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-11-131	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. With this speech, we have reached the end of the main speakerial round. Now we have a two-minute speech. Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go, Congressman. [[15.40]]
u2014-06-11-132	Mr President, Dear House, A very, very important area - I mean home creation in this respect - has been mentioned in the lead speakerial round, which would otherwise be an area to be highlighted in a way that is linked to the issue of energy saving. And since there has been no government reaction to the plans of the government in this very important strategic sector, we need to draw your attention to the fact that there are opportunities within the current fiscal structure, taking into account the current tax rules, which would have a positive social impact with minimal financial investment and long-term benefits. A comprehensive home-building and rental-building programme is a very, very old debt of the current and previous governments. We'll tell you why. During many negotiations with interprofessional organisations, we were shocked by the fact that from the amount of just 100 billion dollars, i.e. from the size of the 120 billion set aside for so-called integration purposes by 2020, a home creation and rental-building programme could be launched in Hungary, where it would be possible to use qualified domestic entrepreneurs, where possible, using Hungarian raw materials, what is a dream for a Hungarian youth today, because if a Hungarian youth today thinks about how long it takes to get a home or a home in Hungary, he sees that it would not be possible in fifteen years. Compared to this, if we put Hungarian entrepreneurs in the position with the help of the state's protective hands, all the budget forints that have been turned here would be recouped several times in two government cycles. Therefore, I call on all the representatives of the government here to think in a responsible way, through cycles, about how such programmes could be founded, both by adapting the fiscal structure and the tax system, but do not be afraid, do not be afraid to think about the future, because EU harmonisation has already been discussed here, but the future of Hungarian young people is less. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-133	Thank you very much. We'll continue the two-minute lap. István Józsa is next. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is amazing that the ruling force, which considers itself strong, brings such a bill here in the form of a motion from its representatives. More shocking than that, because this salad law reflects a massive lack of concept. When there is no government programme, when the government statute does not come before Parliament, when there is nothing to compare the direction of government work, such salad law shows that there is insufficient government activity in the area of legislation. I would like to emphasise the last sentence of my fellow Member, Mr Schmuck, that it would be best if this were withdrawn. And with my appreciation for the performance of my fellow Member Manninger, who woke up one morning to present this salad law - I congratulate him very much on his quality - but my criticism does not apply to him, but the criticism of government work is that such a law should not be brought here, because it is far more damaging than my colleague Sándor Burány said it would solve. If the government is inventive in order to eliminate any errors that would not have occurred without its activities, then this is certainly not for the development of the Hungarian economy. And it's completely self-inflicted by the blowing of the shoulder that Erik Bánki praised the current Minister of Economics for the results of the incredibly low base numbers. This proposal is a failure. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-135	Thank you very much. Since we are at the end of the two-minute speeches, it is up to Mr István Józsa, so I could also say that he should not disarm me, but continue. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The point of my comment is that I would like to explain what I said in a two-minute nutshell. Therefore, the legislative practice that this proposal represents cannot continue with results. Minister Trócsányi, when hearing the candidates for ministers, believed that, under the legislative law, he wished to guarantee the correctness, adequacy and quality of the legislation that comes before Parliament as Minister of Justice. I am very sorry that this proposal has not yet fallen into the hands of either the Ministry of Justice or the Minister, because it might have been possible to eliminate the problems that are the characteristic consequences of fire fighting. I ask the author, although I really have to ask the government, what surprise he was surprised by, and why the need to manage the funds of the natural person resulting from the civil code was a surprise, and the conditions of legal protection that existed cannot be affected by the type of credit institution or the type of contract under which the asset is placed. It can be measured in years when the Civil Code was adopted in decades when it was drawn up; it is a cornerstone of the guarantee elements in the Civil Code. Why should guarantees on the protection of savings deposits for natural persons' funds deposited with a credit institution under a payment contract and a deposit contract be introduced on such a fire-fighting basis? So this, otherwise absolutely necessary, amendment brought me in here shows that their legislative activities so far have been insufficient, because now it has to be brought here in firefighter's work. The other, what you call the EU's legislative harmonisation task, is also a solution to a weapon committed in the context of an acute time disorder. Otherwise, they can be extremely creative when they violate the interests of Fidesz interest groups with certain EU standards or principles on how to avoid them. Here, when it could provide real help, for example, in the field of energy Racialisation programmes, in the field of broadband deployment, development tax relief, they somehow did not think of anything but to resort to the adoption of the guidelines implemented in the EU at a completely different level of development, in very different circumstances. I think this is another element on which they should also have worked in a much more innovative way. The third area, which is also the product of a Fidesz-dog, is the ominous fuel label. When the law was passed, we explained in detail that this is the close business of Lajos Simicska, about 20 billion, which is not really necessary, because there are no imports into the territory of Hungary where fraud could occur. It's just that they're trying to get an interest in the market, even at a price that the fuel marking might be done with radioactive material, that it's possible to cheat by marking fuel, that what they're bringing in is in one hand, and they might put it in something else, and then it'll be legal material. Professionals say that the current IT system for fuel distribution perfectly covers safety requirements. Thus, with regard to fuel coloring and marking, there is nothing more than the fact that a business circle is squeezing the government, and this represents an additional cost to consumers in HUF per litre. I am also of the opinion that this should not be put off its introduction, but should be completely deleted because it is a system stranger. Look around you, Mr Secretary of State - I congratulate you on your promotion; it is a pleasure for us that our fellow Member, who has been exposed to years in the energy industry anyway, is not a secture, but receives professional recognition - I recommend you, Mr Secretary, that you review this professional side of the matter, because there is no need for it from a professional point of view. [[15.50]] At the same time, the labelling system imposed on consumers is capable of relaxing and weakening confidence in the whole supply of fuel and trade. Of course, the deferrals on corporate tax and VAT are a realistic justification in the proposal, but again they show that in the last six months you have not been busy with details of government work, but with something else, with the acquisition of power and the conduct of a power struggle between you. So it would have been much better if they had been able to help prepare, and not just with some kind of deadline adjustment to resolve the issue of introduction temporarily. It is also obvious that it will be introduced to amend the 2013 Act on the National Bank of Hungary. I do not know why the legislative work did not cover this clarification at the time. So when you say in the reasoning that the bill is essentially aimed at meeting the obligations of harmonisation, this pro form is true, in fact, it means that you have not been able to solve the problem in good time, and you are now resorting to a formal solution. Also, the provisions that had not been properly considered are clarified and corrected, which proves the shortcomings of their work at that time. There is a concern that no future development tax relief will be available for investments in energy efficiency and broadband internet services. In fact, the reasons for this are very low in the bill. Now Mihály Varga's oral supplement referred to some of the things that this is a technical difficulty. My point is that, if it were to harm the financial interests of one of your interest groups, they would surely have found a solution, now that it is invading the interests of the national economy and harming the interests of the users, somehow less ingenious, which we find particularly difficult. In view of all of this, I would like to draw your attention to the economy of the country, to the representation of the interests of consumers, to finally take the details of the government work seriously, to take seriously the legislative law, not to put talented representatives in such an uncomfortable position, to take the blame for such a failed salad law. Bed your proposals on such basic details into a well-founded concept! Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-11-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the speeches by Members. For a proper speech from the Jobbik Group, I would like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-138	Mr President, Dear House, I pressed only a button because of a very short reaction, because that particular situation has developed, because although Minister has honoured us with his presence, it will not help much overall, because obviously in the end he will give a sort of evaluation, perhaps not. The author is also quite inactive in this debate, so I don't know where to throw this ball, but then let me share it with you. The point is, we've been talking about why we're rushing, why we've got this package in front of us right now. The answer to this is very simple, because, in line with the EU's need for harmonisation, it is actually the execution of a very fast, very thoughtless order thrown out for the colony, in which there could still be positive signs. So, when Hungarian entrepreneurs are given discounts, it is positive for me, when Hungarian regions can benefit, I can also support it. What is truly outrageous, and no one could explain, and they explain to us in 2 or 15 minutes what is the point of the planned marking system, which they wanted to introduce from July 2014, is now being transferred to July 2015. But in addition to the structure of creating a market of 15-20 billion in Hungary for someone who would deal with these nominations, it would also have a market result. According to experts on the subject, the market would result in an increase in fuel prices of HUF 3-4 per litre. It would be worth figuring out what the point of all of this is, apart from the fact that you want to make room for someone in a tight market segment. So this is an excellent opportunity, given the name of the debate, to answer this very important question, and to learn what, in your view, is the point of this whole nomination system. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First up is Congressman Sándor Burány. Here you go.
u2014-06-11-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Several of my fellow Members have mentioned it, and I myself have said that it is a negative direction in the bill to remove, among other things, the development tax relief for energy efficiency investments. In the view of the MSZP, these tax incentives should not only be abolished but should be extended and we continue to call for the continuation and extension of the panel programme. Its continuation, since this programme stopped in 2010 as a result of the government's decision at the time, and we call for its extension, because although it is true that in Hungary modern energy consumption standards, thermal insulation and insulation standards are least met by panel buildings, the vast majority of traditional old-built houses also do not meet today's requirements. The continuation of this programme would have explicit benefits, while stopping it would entail specific damage. The damage is due to increased pollution and damage, as the cost of household overhead costs is more expensive. The benefits of continuing the program and extending it to residential homes would be obvious, environmentally friendly, cheaper for the owners and users of the apartments to stay in these houses and to live everyday life. And what is also a very important additional element, this would also involve investments that create jobs. After all, tens of thousands of people would be able to work through orders given to the construction industry. In conclusion, the MSZP continues to call for the continuation of the panel programme and its extension to traditional housing. This would be the real direction, not what's in this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-11-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since I do not see several two-minute speakers on my screen, I would like to give a proper speech to Mr László Kiss, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-142	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Let me share a disappointment with you. When I read the title of the bill, "Changing certain tax laws and related other laws, " I thought that the government wanted to respond to people's problems and to present bill or bill in response to people's problems. Compared to this, we have found that once again, by avoiding the law on legislation, it is by trying and devising something that comes before us. Of course, it is possible to talk about why this law on legislation is important. To put it simply, it is normal for the government to submit legislation in such a way that there is a meaningful social debate about it. Because if there's such a debate, then the people's word will reach the government, and the people's word that has reached the government can establish decisions. That is the meaning of the law on legislation. So the opposition is not sprung by detailed rules when it asks for normal legislation to take place in this country, but rather wants people to know it and to give an opinion on the draft legislation that comes before us. It's an important thing. [[16.00]] If we look at these proposals that are in front of us, we can see that they can contain a number of amendments that have been made to eliminate previous beliefs and previous wrong directions. This may be called euphemistical harmonisation, but it is actually a matter of correcting bad ideas, bad practices, bad directions, which is not necessarily wrong, and there is no problem with that. I think that self-criticism is right, for example, in this matter, the reasoning should be about yes, what was wrong then with the members of the government and Parliament, who adopted these laws. But what are we talking about? Let us look at some elements of this proposal. This has been the case several times, and I am only saying it again because I believe that this is a yelling error of the proposal: no development tax can be applied in view of investments in broadband internet and energy efficiency. That's shocking. I think it's not just me, it's shocking to a lot of people in this House. In front of me, several people have said that this direction is incomprehensible, because Hungary is doing badly in this area. On energy matters, on energy efficiency, your government is failing. In the case of a settlement with such properties as Budapest, where the ratio of thermal water near the ground is only smaller than that of another European city, Reykjavíké - so the capital of Hungary has the second largest of these possibilities - it is virtually impossible to exploit geothermal energy in any way. While one hundred percent of Reykjavík is heated with geothermal energy - and here you can talk about, of course, that in a tropical city like Reykjavík, this can be done - Hungary does not attempt to use renewable energy sources and geothermal energy. So that's the thing. Compared to that, even taking a step back in this direction, I think it may not be the right direction. But we could talk about the rest of it. Recognizing the rules of the Civil Code, let us say, more than a year after this adoption, is indeed not a rapid response time for the government. But likewise, if you look at the Hungarian National Bank Act, the submission states that it is entitled to hold a payment account in forints and foreign currency for all payment systems; it can be said that these are evidences, i.e. incorrect practices, errors, wrong directions, correction of corrupt laws. Finally, what we have to talk about is indeed the fuel marking system. I think you can see that this is pointless. You can see that the fuel marking does not have any impact, no results are expected. You too have seen that nothing will happen in a single world. That is why it is thought, or therefore, that the introduction of this marking system should be postponed. But if we have already raised this question, if you have already put this question on the table, and if you can no longer justify why the fuel marking system is at all on a concept level in Hungarian law, if you cannot say anything about it, then why should it not be easier to see that this is a pointless thing, why would it not be easier to see that this direction did not bring the result that you thought it would. The Hungarian Socialist Party believes that it is the easiest way to drop the fuel marking system. Instead of deluding ourselves, let's just say it's an unnecessary thing. I ask you that when you look at the laws that apply to tax laws, let us talk about the fact that there is no progressive taxation in Hungary; let us look at the laws that actually disturb Hungarian people; let us look at the laws that are really meat-cutting; let us look at why in Hungary the rich billionaire and the nurse pay the same percentage; why tax incentives can be used in such a way that the richer one has more benefits. These are the things that really affect Hungarian people and that should be resolved. I therefore propose that if this proposal were brought back by supplementing it with these directions in an amendment, then they would certainly be closer to the real needs of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Other speakers, according to my monitor, didn't come forward. I'm still waiting, because there was a name just now. [[For signal:]] No? Thank you very much. I will ask Jenő Manninger if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-144	Mr President, I would just like to reply briefly, because most of the speeches were not about the submission submitted, but in this context it is obviously possible for such a law to repeat their views on taxation, as in the previous comment, and to make generally the political statements that the subject allows, so I do not wish to respond to them now. On this presentation, I would like to mention two things, which my fellow Member, Mr Szűcs, said, that, on the one hand, subsidies on investments in the environment can be used for energy efficiency, so this kind of change does not have such a disadvantage as it has been analysed. On the other hand, it should also be said that it is clear for broadband that such a harmonisation of EU law is necessary, so there must be a different possibility. This regulation did not allow for further such support. So it is not that these could not be supported in another way and then in some other way, but not with such a tax reduction. It's a fact we can only adapt to in this case. I believe that all the other arguments that we have heard here have already been made on previous occasions, and it is obvious that it was necessary to take these steps. So I think that if they have a concrete proposal, they will clearly indicate it with amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Further amendments may be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. The general discussion of the bill between the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of Hungary on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary on the granting of a State loan to finance the construction of a nuclear power plant in Hungary is now taking place. The submission is T/140. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Foreign Affairs to conduct a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will speak from this platform. We'll wait for Minister to take his place on the stand. [[It's happening.]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2014-06-11-146	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to announce a state loan agreement to finance the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which was concluded at the beginning of the year between the Hungarian Government and the Government of the Russian Federation. In addition to renewable sources, the national energy strategy adopted by Parliament gives priority to nuclear energy. In 2009, the Parliament authorised the current government with 85 percent support to take the necessary preparatory steps to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Based on this broad political agreement, we conducted discussions with representatives of the Russian Federation and concluded the 2014 II. The international agreement announced by law, which allows the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to remain the sole owner of the power plant throughout the Hungarian state, so the determination of the price of the electricity produced can be only a Hungarian decision. [[16.10]] In connection with the implementation of the nuclear power plant expansion, the Russian party provides Hungary with a EUR 10 billion credit line. The amount of the credit line will cover 80% of the costs of construction and commissioning, the remaining 20 percent will be provided by the Hungarian State from its own resources. The loan is granted on better terms than the market. The maturity is 30 years, the repayment of capital must start after the nuclear power plant has been put into service, the interest payable shall be 3,95 per cent in the first 11 years of the term and shall then increase gradually over a period of seven years. Dear House, Let me draw your attention to two very important financial aspects of the loan. On the one hand, the loan is in line with the financing capacity of the Hungarian budget, which will comply with the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law. Secondly, it is not a business loan, so the cost of the loan will not be included in the price of electricity produced by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Keeping energy prices at a competitive level is a priority for both the population and businesses. This would not be possible in Hungary without the energy produced in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The current blocks of the nuclear power plant are nearing the end of their operation, so enlargement is essential to maintain capacity. With the investment, the most modern technology based on the development of the currently operating blocks in Paks will be built, so the operational experience accumulated so far will continue to be used. At the same time, increasing the capacity of the nuclear power plant makes a significant contribution to domestic security of supply and can reduce gas dependence. Enlargement is a long-term security, as the planned lifetime of new blocks will be 60 years, i.e. after the first four blocks have grown old, affordable, safe and environmentally friendly electricity. Dear Parliament, In addition to energy impacts, the expansion of the nuclear power plant has a positive impact on the economy. The investment is expected to create 10,000 new jobs and increase the total national product by up to 1 percent. According to the agreement with the Russian party, 40 percent of the EUR 10-12 billion investment can be carried out by Hungarian companies. This means a minimum of EUR 4 billion in order for the Hungarian corporate sector and at least EUR 1 billion in tax revenue for the Hungarian state register. Based on what has been said, it is clear that investment in Paks, which is of major importance for the national economy, has significant positive effects both for energy supply and security, for the competitiveness of the domestic economy, for the corporate sector and for public finances. I therefore ask you to kindly discuss and support the proposed bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-147	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you, once again, that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions can only be made for the first time after the speech by the lead speaker, following the speech by the first independent Member, with only one representative per group of Members and the first independent Member. I suppose we've said it so many times that it's clear and obvious to everyone. I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, who will give his speech in place. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Paks Nuclear Power Plant V and VI A number of distortions have emerged as regards the financial agreement with Russia necessary for its construction. As can be read in the agreement, the loan is a tied interstate loan, which can be used to cover 80% of the construction and installation payments, an additional 20% will be provided by the Hungarian State from its own resources. The repayment period shall begin six months after the date of entry into service and shall last for 21 years. Costs are concentrated on the second half of the 11-year construction period, which is the period after 2020 when the debt is already falling significantly, close to or below 60%, on the basis of all forecasting and forecasting. The repayment schedule for the loan will begin after 2026 and will take place in seven-year periods divided by 25-35-40 per cent. The negotiated interest rate level is considered to be extremely favourable, on average 115 basis points lower than the market credit available by the Hungarian State. You can see that funding is not available on the market at all, especially in euro, at this rate of EUR 10 billion. The savings thus achieved are not negligible. This is an average of HUF 18 billion per year for more than 32 years, of course only if the entire credit line is drawn. If market interest is below 4,5-4,95 per cent negotiated for remote term terms, the loan can also be replaced by a more favourable arrangement. As we move forward in time, the range of interest rates and the prepayment option we have negotiated together makes this possible. I would add here that the Hungarian State is entitled to prepayment of any amount free of charge, provided that the Russian party is notified of this 90 days prior to early repayment. We also managed to negotiate favourable conditions for a 20% share. In an unfavourable case, debt management would be burdened by an immediate financing requirement of up to EUR 2.5 billion of 20 per cent, instead of dispersing in 11 years to items of the order of EUR 100 to 200 million, which are significantly easier to manage from a debt management point of view. The costs are also, in principle, difficult to run, and the credit line is debited only at the same time as the payments, and the own contribution is also necessary. Accordingly, most of it will be due sometime in five years. As far as interest is concerned, they are normally paid only after the loans have been drawn down. As far as the bill before us is concerned, therefore, it relates to the largest investment in infrastructure in the post-system change period. It is not negligible that this represents an order of at least EUR 3 billion for the Hungarian corporate sector and a tax revenue of at least EUR 1 billion for the Hungarian state register, while thousands of jobs are created. Most importantly, however, the nuclear power plant will be built and will remain state-owned. In comparison, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-Mesterházy cooperation took EUR 14 billion from the IMF in 2009 in a year and a half without any construction, the whole was abducted, and there was nothing left to do with it. [[Dr. István Józsa: This is bullshit.]] Dear Parliament, As you can see, the final result of the agreement meets Hungarian interests in all respects. We need to understand that the nuclear power plant is the V. and VI. Hungary needs serious resources to build and operate its block, so I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.20]]
u2014-06-11-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group will be Mr Bertalan Tóth, who will speak from this platform. We'll wait for the congressman to get up on the stand. Yes, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-11-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In February this year, the Parliament discussed the energy policy of the next hundred years of Hungary, so that the Orbán government did not present all its economic, environmental and energy impact assessments, but encrypted them. The Orbán-Putin pact gave Viktor Orbán the right to make Hungary a Russian energy ring for a hundred years. Without a social and parliamentary mandate, the Prime Minister, citing a 1966 Soviet-Hungarian interstate contract, even without paying attention to appearances, concluded a secret pact, a deal, the burdens of which even our great-grandsons may, not only financially. That is not what the Parliamentary resolution to which the Minister referred was about. You have broken the consensus that surrounded the adoption of this decision, as it was also about publicity, civil society organisations and the publication of impact assessments. It is still true that a question of this magnitude cannot be decided on a narrowly and even on a professional-financial basis, and cannot be taken without the involvement of civil society. You have swept these arguments off the table, and you do not have to decide by force, by two thirds, as our fellow Members think and do. The preparation includes not only the professional development of energy, economic and environmental issues for the construction of the new nuclear power plant, but also a broad discussion of them. Is it appropriate to enter into such an enlargement adventure under the current conditions, especially without knowledge of these studies? We believe that the current market prospects are uncertain. The world is moving towards a reduction in investment costs for renewable energy. Hungary's ability to attract capital is currently worse than that of neighbouring countries. Renewable energy sources are a priority both in the European Union and in Hungary. There is no sufficient and inexpensive storage technology to ensure periodic storage of the valley current. Electricity consumption needs are rising slower than expected even when economic growth is higher, so a significant increase in electricity consumption needs is not expected in our view, and regional cooperation, which may be important on such a subject, is still in its infancy today. Ladies and gentlemen, By clarifying these issues, presenting the preparatory documents, the government is still in debt, because the government is also silent about the fact that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, currently operating and producing the cheapest electricity in Hungary, sells a kilowatt-pound current more expensive than it can be obtained today on the power exchange. The market can only finance such investment through state guarantees and taxpayers' money. Fukushima has significantly increased nuclear power plant construction. The cost disadvantage of the renewable sector is constantly decreasing. Many countries in Western Europe have decided to opt out of nuclear power plant technology. According to the public calculations of professional organisations, an adventure of nuclear power plant construction would be one of the government's ever-reimbursing investments. Ladies and gentlemen, After all this, we should now ex post approve the financing conditions for such a dubious investment. In hindsight, because the Government of Viktor Orbán has already committed itself without the approval of the Parliament to these conditions of financing the investment. Orbán again put the Parliament in a ready position. Under the agreement before us, we must repay the loan for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by 15 March 2047. The repayments shall be paid in equal instalments every six months in a total of 42 instalments. The agreement states that for 21 years the Hungarian party will pay back the amount of the loan actually used on 15 March and 15 September each year. This also means, ladies and gentlemen, that at our national celebrations commemorating the revolution of 1848-49 and the defeat of Russian support, we can remember that, thanks to the borrowing of the Orbán government, we will have to pay Russia thousands of billions by 2047. The loan is fixed interest rate. The interest rate is 3.95 per 12 years, then increases every seven years to 4.5 per cent, then 4.8 per cent, and then to 4.9 per cent. In order to determine whether these are good conditions or not - and now to ignore the questions about the need for investment - it is worth examining, for example, the practice of international export credit. International export credit shall be governed by the reference rate established by the OECD on a monthly basis. For loans over eight and a half years of age, the current interest rate is 2,18 per cent per year. According to the convention before us, Hungary has to pay a premium of 1.77-2.77 percent, so I do not understand why this would be favourable on the market or a more favourable credit facility than on the market. This means, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, that it is extremely irresponsible to borrow fixed-rate loans for such long-term loans. It is unacceptable that the contract does not contain an obligation to renegotiate the interest rate on a case-by-case basis. According to expert calculations, the amount of repayment, including interest, can reach twice the amount of credit, more than HUF 6000 billion. Fidesz makes Hungarian people foreign-debted with this proposal, all people will owe Russia. I would like to refer to the comment on IMF credit - what we have heard here in the keynote speech. As I recall, instead of the IMF loan, you financed Hungary's operation from the market with much higher interest rates, and none of this was built. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán had a bomb business with the Russians, so we heard that he doesn't do bad business. Everyone can remember when they spent 500 billion forints to buy - of course out of the taxpayers' money - MOL shares from Surgetnyeftyega, 21.4 percent of the shares, and 10 percent of the votes. They said that the business also serves energy security, and in a year the share price will be 26 500 forints; well, it didn't. The shares purchased at the rate of HUF 22 400 are today around HUF 13 thousand, the value of the public participation is worth HUF 150-200 billion less today. It is feared that when Viktor Orbán talks about a bomb business, Hungary will not benefit. According to the MSZP, this credit agreement should not be approved under such conditions and under such circumstances. Now, contrary to previous practice, we will not support this international treaty, we are neither in a decision-making position nor in a decision-making pressure. In relation to the need for investment, even the profession is not uniform, let alone society. We are proposing that an ad hoc committee be set up in Parliament, which will be submitted later this week, which means that if the process of preparation has not been carried out in public and has been encrypted, at least implementation should be carried out in public, with full publicity. This ad hoc committee would be authorised to monitor and supervise the process of preparation, supervise the process of investment, monitor that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises can actually take part in orders and supervise that the participation of Hungarian investors will reach 40%. We also propose in this proposal that the ad hoc committee hold a public meeting each month where civil society organisations can participate, present their proposals, ask questions. So I ask my fellow Members to support the subject-matter of this proposal and to support the creation of this ad hoc committee, so that the entire public can be insured in the course of its implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, While Fidesz is fighting a war of freedom, it is slowly fighting a war of independence with the European Union, Brussels is called Moscow by some Fidesz MEPs, the EU is sold to KGST, and after a secret preparation, the hope of Hungarian energy independence is sold to Russia for HUF 3000 billion of foreign currency credit. While Viktor Orbán defends the Hungarian constitutional identity, he plays out the provision of his own basic law on the debt ceiling, and for decades he is indebted to Hungary. [[16.30]] István Tisza's spirit is quoted as the main warrior of our national interests, while a nation strategy issue is being degraded into a debt reduction lozunge. Is Paks really just saying that the electricity will be 10 percent cheaper? We have now heard that we will have to pay the price of this loan not in the price of electricity, but in taxes. Russia enforces its national interests, its great desire for us in Hungary. Mr Orbán and you, my fellow Members, assist in this. The question came to you about how to sell this to the Hungarian people. The majority of Hungarians support the existence of the nuclear power plant and the reduction of the rent in a large proportion.Nosza, let this be the communication line, let it be this, as we will give it to the Hungarian people. Orbán didn't always think so either. I would like to quote him: " Russia's expansion, its rejuvenation, is a real challenge for the West. A threat, a challenge that can reach the European Union from the point of view of Central Europe, and even reach the military power of the allies. Putin's finches have grown in Europe, and now everyone is beginning to see it as dangerous. " Orbán felt the same about Russia not quite seven years ago, that is how he felt about Vladimir Putin, and that is how he felt about himself today. While you are quoting the spirit of István Tisza, allow me to quote a short quote from Endra Ady on the margin of the Unknown Corvin Code: "Computerland, Kompania, Fcompland: in her most capable dreams she has wandered between two shores: from East to West, but prefer to return. " Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-11-151	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr András Aradski, is next. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. We are in the process of negotiating a very important bill, a bill that lays the foundations and shows us the financial conditions under which the V. and VI. A block can be implemented, which hopefully will ensure electricity supply in Hungary in the long term, i.e. we can take a very important step in the area of security of supply. This is a treaty, taking into account the Russian-Hungarian interstate contract, which has already been adopted and made part of Hungarian law, which created the possibility of starting an investment, a secret pact, the treaty and this, which we are discussing here in front of the public of the Parliament. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth:]] This is the most secret pact I've ever seen. Well, I'm sure negotiating a secret pact so that the country-world can see it, argue with it, it's kind of interesting. In any case, we are attempting to discuss the bill before us and the draft contract behind it in an objective manner, along the lines of Hungarian interests, in order to ensure the security of the energy supply of the future. It has repeatedly said from the opposition side that this secret pact requires publicity and what else could be behind it. With all due respect, there's nothing more to it than the fact that the current Paks blocks will expire. Then something must be done, and in the future 10 thousand megawatts should be provided in Hungary, which means they are produced in Hungary. This is clear, and it is clear that the state of the current Hungarian power plant stock, its state of modernity, to say the least, is doubtful, and that the Hungarian industry, the Hungarian economy, which will grow into a work-based society, can provide the energy supply with sufficient security, is clearly necessary for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant V. and VI. construction of its block. By the way, the capacity building of the nuclear power plant, V and VI. Building a block in line with the Hungarian energy strategy adopted in 2011, which gives an important role to nuclear power plant capacity in the energy mix, but will be equally important for renewable energy sources and for fossil energy sources. I think that, putting it in this framework and looking at why we have to do this, it is certain that we must start on this path, informing the public accordingly, using the democratic instruments of Parliament, by deciding by public debate whether we are going along this path, that is to say, whether we are going to conclude a treaty that provides financial financing for the expansion of the nuclear power plant. I think that it is worth talking about what this draft treaty is like, which is before us, what it means for Hungarian society from the financing side. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I must stress that there is value behind this financing contract. There is value creation in the sense that a very modern and hopefully efficient nuclear power plant will increase Hungarian wealth, the wealth of Hungarian society. There is value creation, and we will not use this EUR 10 billion as we use that EUR 14.8 billion. Let us be precise, my fellow Member, with an EU and ECB loan of 14.8 billion during the Gyurcsány government in 2008. I do not remember, ladies and gentlemen, that it would have been brought before Parliament, here in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament, and that it would have been decided whether this country should borrow EUR 14.8 billion from the ECB and from the IMF. The comparison that it is expensive on a market basis at the moment compared to IMF and ECB credit, which is ahead of us, cannot be known because it has not been put before us, it has not become a part of the public, we have not discussed it. Compared to this, the Socialist Party's view was that it was a transparent decision. Compared to this, the current debate on this contract, which contains in detail the amount, the rate of use, interest rates, the timing of repayment of capital, the method and method of repayment of interest, is a secret pact. Somewhere I think we should put on more glasses for people who say we're arguing about a secret pact here in the Parliament. Back to the financial conditions, it seems very positive. It is also very positive from the point of view of the fact that it is not export credit rates that should be taken into account here, but investment euro loans. There are far tougher numbers in this regard. For example, a EUR-based business development loan is currently available at 9.75 per cent. If we look at it as being more favourable, of course, if we go out to the international market, the most favourable creditor in Europe today is the European Investment Bank, the European Investment Bank, and its interest rate is also higher, honourable Members. Right now, it's moving between 5 and 6 percent. Compared to this, it is a practice for the EIB to apply for a share of the undertaking concerned to exercise direct control over the investment as a whole and to suspend the whole at the moment when it deviates from the terms negotiated. That's a lot more risk than we think when it comes to building a nuclear power plant. [[16.40]] I believe, on the other hand, that this treaty, which is before us, does not impose such conditions. The Russian partner does not request ownership of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; it does not require him to set the electricity price guaranteeing the return of the loan. These are all conditions which, in addition to financial conditions, make credit very advantageous, transparent, clear, accountable and affordable. I think it is also normal to start paying interest first, and when the investment is made, when it starts to produce, when it gives value, it provides VAT revenue to the Hungarian budget, then the capital must be paid off. Such lending in international project financing is very rare. The sum of these favourable conditions that we have in front of us in this credit agreement is very rare; it is so rare, honourable Members, that there is no such thing. That is why I believe, and for this reason I congratulate the Hungarian delegation negotiating the financial conditions, that such a favourable loan agreement with the Russian party, with favourable terms, has been negotiated. Many people say, regardless of the financial conditions, that it will serve Russia on the energy front. There is indeed a Russian energy dependency for Hungary, and everyone knows that this is not the case today, it is tens of years old, it is almost 60 years old. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental reason for this is not the establishment of a nuclear power plant, it means exactly the opposite, it means independence. We need to use less gas, we need to use less natural gas that is of Russian origin. It is also true that the European Union acquires between 75 and 80 percent of natural gas from outside the European Union - it may be only 60 - but the point is that it distributes it nicely: North Sea, Africa and Russian procurement, but Hungary is forced to obtain more than 80 percent of gas from the Russian side, because it has no other option, no other option that could have been created earlier by creating cross-border facilities, in which this government has been at the forefront, and hopefully will continue to be at the forefront in the future. At this moment, if we return to the contract already concluded, which ensured between the two parties that we could build this nuclear power plant, here at the moment the Russian party has undertaken to deliver the fuel, i.e. to deliver the radiators, but did not request exclusivity in this matter, even to return these fuel. There is this addiction, but it is not a daily addiction, honourable Members, and it is not every day that we have to look at whether the Russian side is blocking the gas or not. This means Hungarian energy independence, the increasingly independent potential of Hungarian energy production, which is fully in line with the European Union's guidelines and expectations, which tells the European Union states that efforts must be made to achieve energy independence as much as possible, in the deeper and more efficient way. Each state has a responsibility to be independent of the energy sources that bind the EU Member State to third markets, i.e. outside Europe. With this contract, this construction, this expertise and the expertise that Hungarian engineers have and are likely to be able to build this power plant, we take these steps and in the long term ensure energy supply and that part of the energy supply is independent of external markets. One more thought, with transparency. So we're discussing this secret pact now. It is expected from the opposition to be able to monitor all details of the investment. Please respectfully, under the Hungarian laws in force, the investor, Rosatom, is obliged to select suppliers in public procurement procedures, and to treat these suppliers in such a way that they act in accordance with the government decree providing subcontractors for this collateral management. Anyone who wants to know who's building it, who's the contractor, who's out there, who's the contractor, who's gonna be able to see it in public. So these things can be followed during construction, investment and construction, so there is every chance that we can serve a transparent, clear and good purpose by adopting this bill, so I can suggest acceptance by KDNP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has indicated that two fellow Members will give their keynote speech. First, I will give the floor to Mr János Volner, Deputy Head of the Group, who will speak from here, from the platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me begin by exposing my speech today. We would like to expose a politician of Fidesz who has kept the Russian party in secret, in conspirative circumstances, and has concluded a contract with Russia that has obviously provided Russia with an economic advantage. This man was called Viktor Orbán. I think it is important to say this because, while the election campaign, courtesy of Fidesz, was all about cutting off Jobbik, in fact, who really kept the relationship with the Russian party secret and went to Moscow and agreed on the implementation of the Paks nuclear power plant investment, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was. It is worth putting these two cases on the balance and drawing the necessary lessons from it. Turning to the energy field, this is what today's debate is really about: it has not been clear for a very long time what the government would like to do with the energy sector. It is recalled by 2010, when the current government spent its first government cycle, when NGM and NFM, i.e. the two ministries dealing with economic areas, went to give and take control of the energy field, for months nothing happened in this area, because 8 years of opposition were short for Fidesz to think about which ministry would deal with this extremely important area in what governance structure, and after a bit of scrambling, of course, energy was sold out and found out which ministry it was going to. What was the result of the subsequent period? The government did not make it clear either in its electoral programme, even in its 2010 election programme, because by 2014 it did not have the courage to create an election programme at all, what sectors it had plans for. For example, the 2010 election programme did not reveal the plans of the Orbán government with the energy area. It can be seen that in the energy field, the government is increasing its share, greatly increasing the state influence, which Jobbik is supporting. The difference between us and Fidesz is that we have said that energy is a strategic area, in the same way as in the developed world, and we have also said that we want to take power plants into community ownership as quickly as possible, to expand and modernise Hungarian power plant capacities. What happened on the other hand in the Hungarian energy market? The government first touched energy prices through the introduction of the Authority's price ceiling, thereby creating an artificial pricing that intervened in market processes. [[16.50]] When energy could have been cheaper because the world market price for natural gas had fallen, the energy in Hungary did not become cheaper, as the government cemented them, the prices containing the luxury profit increased by socialist governments, and so for years the Hungarian population gained significantly more electricity and gas. What was the result of these government measures? The government ran into the power generation, and there was a long fight between different government members, often here, in public, about what to do with this area. In the energy sector, there was no working capital, and in the development of our investment rate, the decline in the energy sector was clearly visible. In one year, four Hungarian power plants closed because of the uncertain and internationally uncompetitive economic environment created by the government. Four power plants shut down, hundreds of people from all over the street, they've been cut off, the share of my import prices has increased. From the beginning of the Orbán government, from 2010 until now, the share of import prices has doubled, with more than half of electricity coming from foreign power plants in peak periods. This emergency situation and these processes led to the government's forced involvement in the Hungarian energy market, its access to the power plant system, and had no choice but to try to replace the lost capacity. By the way, Jobbik agrees that with the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, Russian technology must be used to fill the lost capacity. We do not agree that the Prime Minister was secretly and in truly conspirative circumstances, so that my fellow Members on the Fidesz website did not even know that Viktor Orbán had gone to Moscow the morning he concluded the agreement, so he was conspired in such a way by circumventing the professional public and excluding the public, he agreed on such a contract, which is important and essentially eligible in terms of its content. But on this, I think it would have been worthwhile to have a social dialogue and a professional debate. We also consider it important to say that while Jobbik was constantly suspected of serving Russian interests on the Fidesz side, Jobbik was the only party to have its own professional proposal in connection with this bill. In February of this year, I submitted a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament, in which I initiated the creation of a state capital fund capable of channeling the population's savings currently in bank deposits into a key capital fund for the creation of investments of national importance. The same is the case in this case as in our plans, as the government currently carries out in the sovereign debt market, competes in return with the returns available for savings in bank deposits and tries to entice the retail savings in commercial banks to purchase sovereign debt. We are saying the same thing, we would only create a capital fund for the implementation of investments of major national importance, which is a return guarantee, since a lower level of return must be guaranteed to investors at least and, of course, it is capital-protected. Capital protection is provided by the Hungarian State itself. There is no answer to why Fidesz said no to this proposal. Our proposal would have prevented Hungary from being indebted to the rest of the world. It would have prevented Hungary from lending itself to the Russian party, from being able to finance at least a significant portion of the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant from domestic sources. Just to remind you: At present, the retail savings in bank deposits could have been channeled into the expansion of the nuclear power plant, and it could have been prevented by adopting the better proposal that Hungary is indebted to the Russian party. So, dear gentlemen, when it comes to the responsibility of the nation, we are missing the very development of such proposals from you, and since these proposals are already on the table in this House, they should not be rejected because Jobbik is working them out. This is obviously in everyone's interest that these proposals should be accepted and Hungary should not be indebted to the rest of the world. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-11-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. The second keynote speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli, who also speaks from this platform. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Every time nuclear energy is mentioned here, any item on the agenda of nuclear power plant expansion or nuclear power within the walls of the Parliament, there is always a lively debate, and it is not expected to be any different now. It is expected that the debate will now be about whether Hungary needs nuclear energy or not, and different examples from different countries can be given. However, since its formation, I think that Jobbik is the only one who has taken the same and straight position. We have always said that Hungary needs nuclear energy as an energy source at the moment. In addition, all other sources of energy that may be considered in our country must, of course, be used, and more than currently, renewable energy sources should be relied on. However, we say that the two do not exclude each other, but assume directly, because we need a base power plant capacity to ensure the security of Hungary's energy supply and, of course, we need energy sources that can further increase Hungary's energy independence, as they rely on our own, renewable or fossil reserves. In the area of our renewable energy reserves, we have always said several times in the Parliament in relation to energy disputes that, for example, it is hardly appropriate to talk about hydropower in Hungary since Bős-Nagymaros. There is still no substantial progress on this issue, which, in the long term - just at the level of mention, is not the subject of this debate - would allow us to move forward in terms of energy independence, but there is scope for significant capacity expansion in the areas of earth's heat, wind or solar energy. And, of course, what must always be said is that energy efficiency investments are measures that can bring about a meaningful breakthrough in this area. That is because at the moment there is the greatest opportunity, the greatest capacity, to achieve a significant increase in energy efficiency in the use of electricity in Hungary, which, in the long term, will allow nuclear energy to be permanently expelled from the energy mix of Hungary after the end of the operating hours of new nuclear power blocks, which will be built in the near future. But it's a matter of decades. So at the moment, I think that a responsible Hungarian political force cannot say no to nuclear energy. We have also said many times that we are not in love with nuclear energy, this is a mere reality, which is obviously also the result of some kind of experience, since we have been using nuclear energy as a proven method of energy supply in Hungary for decades. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is fully secure to everyone's satisfaction over the past decades. Of course, it is possible to throw international examples, with various malfunctions and disasters, but I think that a number of other examples could be set for all examples that prove the opposite. We must be very responsible when there is such a question before the Hungarian Parliament, as my fellow Member János Volner said that Jobbik has also presented a constructive proposal in this area, which would have been an alternative to indebting to Russia, and, of course, we have alternative proposals in the field of energy policy, but these are for decades. These are long-term proposals for solutions, which must not be without the use of nuclear power at the moment. [[17.00]] And, as my fellow Member, János Volner said, Jobbik and the various conspirative, alleged meetings were a rather strong topic in the campaign. Jobbik was tried to be made public in this area, although it is quite obvious that if someone here met Russian politicians who were leading in a conspirative manner, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself, who had concluded this treaty in complete secrecy and put the Hungarian Parliament in a ready position, I would add, since the framework agreement, which was signed, and the framework agreement was accepted by the Hungarian Parliament. So this is also a kind of charade to bring the financial agreement to Parliament, because on the one hand, it is obvious that Fidesz-KDNP is a two-thirds majority in the Hungarian Parliament, and on the other hand, how the nuclear power plant investment, the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, is actually a matter behind the scenes, and the financing of this will obviously come about as a result of an agreement already concluded. Thus, we maintain our alternative proposal and continue to say that, while nuclear energy is basically needed in Hungary, and although the expansion of the nuclear power plant as a responsible politician cannot be ignored or neglected, the plan of this financial agreement cannot be supported, since it was not concluded or notified with the prior approval of the Parliament. This has been self-inflicted by the government or our prime minister, and he is trying to shove it down the throats of the Members of Parliament as a matter of fact. We can return this only with a neutral stay, but we cannot support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the group of the LMP, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament, will be present. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-158	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, How can we decide the fate of a country, its future, on a commitment that has been forced for many decades without asking the opinion of the members of society, or have the government at least informed them of the reasons, arguments and objections behind the construction of the new block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? This story began on December 28, 1966, when the Hungarian-Soviet Interstate Convention was signed on the establishment of a nuclear power plant in Hungary, saying that we had entered the nuclear age. Since then, a lot of water has flowed down the Danube, including the cooling of nuclear power stations, yet it seems that nothing has changed for us. Viktor Orbán Hungarian Prime Minister and Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin [[Mihály Varga: President!]] On 14 January 2014, without the knowledge of Parliament and the public, the government spokesperson signed a cooperation agreement on the construction of two new Paks nuclear power stations without the knowledge of Parliament and the public, with only the current developments in bilateral relations being reviewed. This is happening after the Chernobyl and Fukushima nuclear power plant balas, with almost undetectable consequences, and after a number of malfunctions worldwide in recent decades. It is no coincidence that a multitude of people and governments in developed countries have said no to the construction of new nuclear power plants, even to the deployment of existing ones, and are putting energy saving and efficiency at the heart of their energy policy, as well as the growing use of renewable energy sources. More and more states are declaring that they will put energy supply on a 100 percent renewable base in the foreseeable future. Of course, the energy policy and strategy of a country is a very complex issue. A multitude of fields of expertise, cooperation and the need and need of political power are needed in order to gain a reliable picture of both opportunities and risks based on available scientific results. That's a big responsibility. It is therefore unforgivable if a country's government fails to provide professional and social information and to negotiate such a case. It does not give anyone an exemption that we, Members of Parliament, have been elected by the people and have been authorized to adopt important laws defining their future. As a civil environmentalist, I have experienced over many years that, in addition to official revelations in nuclear matters and the propaganda machine of the companies involved in nuclear matters, it was not possible to provide meaningful information. And now I see the same thing. The government is only talking about the perceived benefits of the investment, and is deeply silent about the potential political, economic, environmental, terrorist and other risks. This treaty is abnormally unfavorable for Hungary and serves Russia's interests unilaterally. We know what Russia can do if we don't pay. You can call off the entire Hungarian debt in one amount, and you can immediately set up the Hungarian budget. Once again, we have no idea what the situation is if Russia becomes unable to pay the loan. However, in order to be a great expert in the Carpathian Basin, we do not need to establish that Russia has serious financing problems as a result of the current situation of the Russian economy and recent conflicts, and these difficulties can easily get worse until it is insolvent against us. What happens at this hour? Here we will be standing with a half-finished, but many thousands of billions of forints consumed by a power company that does not produce anything, but after which payments must be paid. And, of course, we still don't know if the country needs any additional capacity from the planned two new reactor blocks, even higher than the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant. We do not know whether if Hungary would really require this much additional electricity, it would indeed be possible to produce it at the cheapest price with the Russian nuclear power plant. No, we don't, because when you talk about guaranteed cheap electricity, you just don't share the facts with us. We do not know why enlargement has just been decided when Hungarian electricity consumption is at a decade low point, and it is expected that it will not increase significantly in the foreseeable future. We do not know whether there is an unconstitutional situation in the country due to the increase in public debt due to the planned nuclear power plant to be built on Russian credit. We don't know anything about your plan, because you've decided to use your two-thirds power to decide the future of this country. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let us look at what is falling away from Hungary and the Hungarian people, if your intention proves to be successful. There is no way to stop development in the world, as renewable energy is now at a record level at global level, and the world's renewable energy production now accounts for one fifth of final electricity consumption. In 2013, 56 percent of all installed power generation capacities are generated by the Sun, using renewable energy sources. Progress cannot be stopped either at the level of development of renewable energy technologies or at the level of making production more efficient. And it is true that countries with a strong economy, such as China, the United States, Brazil, Canada and Germany, are currently the drivers of development, but they are wrong if they say that we Hungarians have no place for development. They are wrong, because the fact is that most of the growth in renewable energy comes from emerging economies, where the opportunities offered by renewables make a significant contribution to economic growth, building, laying the foundations for a better, richer future. [[17.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Whoever chooses the new one, who invests in development money, energy, but especially knowledge and innovation, wins the future. Finding out how Hungary can participate as fully as possible in the sustainability revolution, in which the world's prominent economies use their knowledge, creativity and commitment to development would be a noble goal and challenge for any government. Instead, you decide to put Hungary's socio-economic development on the fast track for many decades. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-06-11-159	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Szabó Timea has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-11-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary decisions which the Orbán government prefers to refer to when we are asking about the merits of the Paks enlargement plans are not, to say the least, about what we are experiencing in reality. I quote: "The Parliament invites the government to start the preparatory work on the new nuclear power plant capacity. Following the professional, environmental and social foundation, you should present your proposals on the need for investment, the conditions, the type of nuclear power plant and its installation to the Parliament in due time. " I would like to remind Prime Minister and his third government that they are still indebted to the Hungarian Parliament and to the Hungarian public. Quite amazingly, although we are already in the process of concluding a loan agreement to finance enlargement plans, we still know nothing about the expected environmental impact and economics of Russian participating investment, not to mention political risks. My fellow members of the Government, who, unfortunately, do not have many people sitting in this room right now! You did not submit a proposal to Parliament, but we were subsequently notified of an Orbán-Putin agreement concluded in secret, and now you are trying to force the credit agreement through in the same way. We are arguing about a text on which we can no longer change a single letter, because you have already signed it behind the back of the electorate and the parliament in Moscow. You are not only interested in the people of the country, but you are not even interested in the Members of the Parliament of Fidesz, but they also learn from the Russian press about what their boss is negotiating with Putin. But they don't give a damn about their own laws. Legislative law adopted by the previous Orbán government in September 2010 and still in force today 17. Article 5 of the Act states: "The preparatory of the legislation shall assess the expected consequences of the legislation by carrying out a preliminary impact assessment of the extent to which the legislation is likely to be affected. The results of the preliminary impact assessment shall be communicated to the representative body of the local government in the case of a bill to be submitted by the government or a government decree. The Ministerial Regulation may provide for a preliminary impact assessment to be carried out by the preparatory body of the public body regulatory instrument in the case specified by it. The impact assessment shall examine all the effects considered significant by the proposed legislation, in particular its social, economic, budgetary impact, its effects on the environment and health, the administrative burden, and the need to create legislation, the likely consequences of non-regulation and the personal, organisational, material and financial conditions necessary for the application of the legislation. " Neither the Orbán-Putin atom nor the credit agreement is known for carrying out this preliminary impact assessment. Members of Parliament have been promised information on it several times, but they have lied about breaking all their relevant promises in both the previous and the current term. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You call the planned Paks expansion an investment of the century, which may be true of you financially, but this project cannot at this moment be determined responsibly whether it is necessary, economical and feasible in the current foreign policy and external economic environment. For the time being, this seems exclusively to John Lazarus and his circle of friends the business of the century. What we know is that the Paks electricity price, the connecting investments, which may include one or more Danube waterfalls, and the information about other environmental impacts, with all possible means, often trying to keep it a secret by crossing the line of legality. As Minister of State for Development Nándor Csepreghy recently stated in another case, it is only in his interest to avoid an investigation who has something to hide. Looks like in the Paks case, the government has a lot to hide. They voted not only for the establishment of the parliamentary committee of inquiry in a series, but also for the inclusion of the subject on the agenda of the parliamentary committees. Recently, János Bencsik, a more moderate member of the Fidesz group, has had the glorious role of voting against the environmental and financial aspects of the voting machine with a majority of governments. But, fellow Members, there is something to talk about. In the recent days, our member and former MEP, Jávor Benedek, calculated that after a loan of EUR 10 billion, i.e. around HUF 3 000 billion at today's rate, we will be paying around HUF 3200 billion in interest, i.e. the final account - including the Hungarian self-interest - will be well beyond HUF 7 000 billion. And all of this, with the government in the line of sightings of drasticly deteriorating poverty and child hunger figures, is not willing to sacrifice 18 billion forints to eradicate child hunger, and what is this amount compared to the 7,000 billion forints of Russian credit. In addition, for the HUF 7,000 billion Hungary will receive a Russian-fueled Russian-powered nuclear power plant, which no one has ever proven to be necessary for the country's electricity produced there; this was said in the previous speech. This could cost Hungary up to EUR 1 billion a year during the 21-year period of repayment, i.e. much more than the end-payment of the IMF loan. Without exaggeration, my fellow Members, we can say that our children and even our grandchildren will moan. Ten years of grace, and then the payoff starts. Meanwhile, the developed world and Europe within it went in a completely different direction. More and more states are breaking up with their nuclear programmes and declaring that they want to switch 100% to renewables. Last year, the world had ten times more renewable capacity than nuclear or fossil fuel, and China, one of the most Orthodox energy policy countries, produced twice as much electricity with the help of the sun and wind as it did with nuclear and coal. CHAPTER XXI The energy sector of the century increasingly means that local energy needs will be met with locally generated energy, creating jobs and income locally. Energy production is increasingly decentralisationd and democratised. In Germany today, instead of uncontrollable state and multinational giants, 2 million households and thousands of energy cooperatives produce one third of the electricity consumption, and instead of the state or the multinationals, they dictate prices, because after six or eight years of return on investment, they can provide much cheaper than everyone else. And, ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this is not only that Hungary misses this economic development opportunity with the Paks atom financed by the Russian loan, choosing the centralised, state-controlled energy industry, but also what Paks II is doing. It starts to produce, the expensive electricity from there will be unsold on the outside market, because by then the solar and wind power plants that are now in existence will be paying off their investment loans and producing for pennies. In other words, not only does the dream become a nightmare that the Paks electricity surge will be bought by the German economy, but the Paks project will also ruin the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy for a long time. The giga loan, on the other hand, stays on our necks, on our children, on our grandchildren. And on your grandchildren, and with them no longer in government, it's gonna be harder to steal public procurement and make a living in the family. [[17.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone except the fidesz oligarchs around the project is paying for this business. And the country is falling back into the era of Soviet big investment. If that's the goal, then the Orbán government is on the right track. But if we want a sustainable future and economical energy production, we need to forget about the Paks expansion as a matter of urgency before the major losses. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2014-06-11-161	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2014-06-11-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A lot of criticism has been expressed about the presentation and the case itself. I would like to congratulate the Minister and Mr Csenger-Zalán on the fact that they have said two sincere sentences, which are key to the assessment of the matter. Minister said from there about the pulpit, so it will be included in the record: the cost of building is not included in the price of electricity, because it is the government debt. This is where one of Mr Aradski's mistakes is that interest rates should be compared to the levels of interest on public debt rather than to the level of interest on the investment loan. Because, as has been rightly said in the Minister's exposé, this is an interstate loan contract for captive use, which will therefore form part of the public debt. I don't have time to explain that in two minutes, and then in my normal comment, why you're being ridiculous, that it doesn't fall into the price of electricity. But here I would like to convert to the honest sentence of Mr Csenger-Zalán, which said that the dominant part of the use of the loan after 2020 is current due to the timetable for construction, and then the Hungarian debt path will be at such a positive stage that a certain constitutional limit will not arise. This is what it is said to say, not in places as serious as the Hungarian Parliament, that Viktor Orbán has drawn a card to 19. Because based on the experience of the government debt development over the past four years, what assurance is there that this debt path will really be so positive? I would like to comment on these two frank sentences in my normal comment. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, Member of the LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-06-11-164	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before a longer speech, I wanted to respond in two minutes to some of the things that were said. First of all, I didn't think there would come a time when I would agree with Szabó Timea on something, but the content of his comment, I must say, I fully share. I think you have summarized very well the problems that we need to address at the moment. On the contrary, however, I am very sad that I have to rephrase my opposition here in the opposition. Congressman Kepli said about the pulpit that a political force with responsibility cannot say no to nuclear energy. I have a very honest belief that a responsible political force can only say no to nuclear energy, nothing else. Gentlemen. I respect your good intentions, and I believe you mean well, but you want to buy a vinyl record player at the age of mp3. The time has passed, and the age has proven that they are not suitable for the purpose you wish to achieve. We need to look at the possibilities that are already ahead of us. We need to look at the possibility of energy supply for small regional and small community opportunities, and we need to look at where natural resources are available, adapted to the landscape. In the southern part of Hungary, where the number of sunny hours is over 2000, where can we actually look at the use of solar energy? What makes it possible that in the last four years, wind energy has not actually increased in the country and has not been allowed to spread at all? Why is it that, as has already been said by Congressman Bertalan Tóth, the mention of Reykjavík is that we do not want to use our geothermal energy supply with the efficiency that Iceland does? Why is it that we do not want to develop into technology that would give us the opportunity to move forward? So it's an outdated record, and I don't think it's the future. I think responsible politicians can only say no to Paks. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-165	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech will be held by Mr Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group.
u2014-06-11-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not know who of the opposition representatives has read the law that we have here. Apart from a few refreshing exceptions, no one was talking about the credit agreement, but there are various energy policy discussions, or we have witnessed them. Here, Mr Kepli indicated that this was really the case, but that was not what he was talking about either. It was my colleague, Józsa, who spoke about the loan agreement before us and asked what the guarantee was for that 60% by 2020. Let me say that the responsible planning, the responsible planning and the course that has been achieved here in the last four years. Here, between the walls of Parliament, we have heard nothing but voodoo-economic policy, and there is no basis for anything, week after week, month after month, year after year. And today, if we look at all the indicators that we predicted, the growth has started, inflation is at a very low level, and, yes, precisely because of the growth that has started, it will be around 60 percent. And that is precisely why it is important that this loan itself, the whole scheme, is such that it will be really needed when it can be done. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-167	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán that, on the one hand, he is right that the topics we have mentioned have approached the subject of this agenda in a slightly broader sense. But in fact, we did this in a completely house-based manner, because the field of the general debate is to get a slightly broader overview of the Hungarian energy policy, why it was necessary at all to mention the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant at all, and how we got to the conclusion of this ominous agreement. The other one, Mr Róbert Sallai, is my fellow Member Benedek, although I feel that there is no contradiction between us as much as he thinks, because in the things he has said that should be improved, we agree perfectly. But what we're saying is that right now, we can't trigger nuclear power. So let's face it, Hungary produces 50 percent of its electricity from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. These blocks, right, between 2032 and 2037 if I remember correctly, will stop, scheduled, and from then on it is obvious that we should replace this 2000 megawatt with something. But at this point, it does not seem to be possible to make up for such capacity at an approximate price, such as renewable energy. We support the expansion of the nuclear power plant so that we can gain time again and have a few more decades to fully resolve Hungary's energy independence and to ensure that we base Hungary's energy supply on renewable energies and solutions that fit better with nature. So I'm talking more about an emergency. Once again, I stressed that responsible politicians can, of course, throw renewable energies, and we love them very much, but at the moment this is not a realistic alternative to nuclear energy. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-11-169	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga for a two-minute speech. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2014-06-11-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to point out, too, that Congressman Csenger-Zalán has preceded me by the fact that this is a financial contract. So we're a little distracted here. Of course, you can talk about everything. It can be said that nuclear power is an outdated plate, only then should we answer why, let's say, Britain is building nuclear power plants, Finland is building new blocks now, Saudi Arabia, which is abundant in oil reserves and gas reserves, why is it building 16 nuclear power blocks now by 2030. So, Congressman, the use of nuclear power and nuclear power is also progressing with the world, we are no longer talking about second-third-generation power plants, but fourth-generation power plants. You should also notice that renewable energies have challenges, shale gas, nuclear energy has taken the edge off these energies. [[17 .30]] And you don't talk about how Hungary could finance the renewable energy, I don't know, power plants or resources that the country should operate after the nuclear power stations have shut down our existing blocks. I must also note that in the contract there is a possibility of early repayment at any time, so Hungary does not have to pay back for 30 years. If the economy is in the same condition as we did with EU and IMF loans, we can make early repayments with lower interest rates. [[Dr. István Józsa: A month and a half before that.]] Dear Congressman Joshua, You should know this, you never paid back, you always took out loans, you brought a lot of debt to the country; there is a government that makes early payments at times... [[Dr. István Józsa: Bank loan.]] Congressman! I've listened to you. I know you're tense. [[Dr. István Józsa: Me?]] I'm asking you to listen to me. And last but not least, I would also like to note that this is an international treaty. So you are very kind, but I do not know that if this were an amendment that we would accept now, we would have to go back to Moscow and renegotiate the treaty. This would be completely unusual from Parliament's practice, and Parliament's vote on an international treaty, which was the case now, even five years ago or ten years ago. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-11-171	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The statements announced will be followed by... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Independent Member Szabó Timea has applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First, I would say to Minister Varga that we are actually talking about the credit agreement, although, as has been said here before, this is a bigger issue than that. However, I mentioned it, others mentioned it, not only our views on the investment in Paks and on energy policy, but precisely that - and I subpoenaed the legislative law adopted in September 2010 17. In addition, I think we also mentioned the very serious maladministration in relation to the loan agreement. Counter-examples can also be given: if Austria and Germany have decided to cut down nuclear energy and invest in renewable energies over the next ten years, I do not believe that these two countries are a bad example. In Britain, it was proved precisely after the construction of the nuclear power plant that the price of electricity after the nuclear power plant was twice as high as before. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Kepli, that in his speech, the first, he mentioned that counter-examples could also be brought to nuclear disasters. I'm not sure what that means. And here, I think, as I understand it, you're the one who mixed up the extension with the expansion. So I think that no one doubts that it really needs to be extended here, because it is not possible to replace that 40 percent power supply from renewables overnight, but that there is no need for a new block, no need for a new nuclear power plant, I think - and I will join my fellow Members - that all responsible politicians will confess. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-173	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2014-06-11-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to forward to my responsible pro-government fellow Members, both of them, one from the Fidesz side, one from the KDNP side, and to Minister Mihály Varga, who is also equally responsible, that I will be strictly on the path of professional evaluation, and I would very much ask you not to involve the emotions you unleashed in the election campaign in this parliamentary debate. I don't want to be any more specific, you'll know when I refer to those populist, only part of the reality, I say, highly campaign-like comments. You know that. I don't think he's worthy of you. Let me just say, neither do I. So I'm gonna stay away from these. As Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán pointed out in his speech by the lead speaker and in his two-minute speech, this is an interstate agreement, an international treaty, a credit facility for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. It is a real question that the Minister has removed from you how much this decision is based on energy. You are sending this back to an earlier resolution, not with an 85 per cent consensus, but with a 96 per cent consensus in Parliament, which was rightly expressed by Mrs Timea Szabó and by Bertalan Tóth, that was not the case. So it was about planning preparations and the extension of the existing Paks four blocks. So there's already a professional slip on your part. The other thing I am not going to get too involved in is the credit agreement, but there is no energyist, not in this country, or anywhere else, who would agree with you that this decision on the side of energy prognosis could be made today. No one knows what energy needs will be after 2025, especially what energy needs will be after 2032. The current Paks block I operates until 2032 and every two years thereafter there is the current shutdown, which, for technical reasons, may not be necessary, because the world has experience, renovation technologies that show with reference values that the current four Paks block can run not only with this currently authorised and renewed 20 years of additional operating time, it is possible that in the case of renovation at that time, this 2000 megawatt could run for another 10-15 years after 2030, which is currently in operation. So there is no prognosis, no energy prognosis that can support the fact that, from 2025 onwards, the current 2000 megawatt nuclear performance, complemented by this precisely unknown, but at least 2,300-2500 megawatts of new nuclear power, is needed by Hungary on a market basis. Let us say, on the basis of a force policy that you are also beginning to introduce in energy policy, so that all the others die, and then you will forcely beat prices, it is only possible that its impact on competitiveness is in question. Several times, the Prime Minister argued that cheap energy is a fundamental factor in industrialisation and competitiveness, and he has set the example of the United States. That's true. So cheap energy is a fundamental factor in industrial policy and industrialisation. The example, the example of the United States, is half-sided in that there was indeed a key element in the recovery after the crisis of cheap energy prices, based on the high gas price of the past, which led to the development of shale gas extraction technology. I am not saying now that shale gas extraction has a thousand environmental impacts, but the result is that it has provided a basis for the development of shale gas extraction technology for high US natural gas in the years after 2000. This has been the case, and from 2006-2007 onwards, the shale gas fields, as a result of which in the United States the energy mix has a very low energy price level at the level of electricity, but this is based on domestic resources. That's where it's mined. That's where it's grown. So it is difficult to compare Hungary with this, especially in a context - and here I would also like to explain the critical part of the Minister's sentence that the cost of construction is not included in the price of electricity, because it is part of the public debt. This Münchhausen effect, to have taxpayers pay the part of the debt repayment, disappears between the lines of the budget - you think, although it will be difficult to disappear due to its scale - and then, well, here will be the favourable electricity price. [[17.40]] What, then, is the price of that electricity? Just the cost of production, like today? Because today's Paks Nuclear Power Plant is essentially zero. What is costed is the cost of maintenance, the cost of modernisation and the cost of operation, in which the most decisive is not so much the fuel price as it is currently. So the fact that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant can produce for approximately 12 HUF today is four blocks of the nuclear power plant that has already been paid. This regime change has been exploited so much that the Russian Federation was still in debt - remembering these ominous sovereign debt dismantling projects - so the Russians still owed Hungary, the nuclear power plant was paid for at the level of the interstate settlement. So by then, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant now operating was free of charge, the price of the electricity produced there is so low because it does not bear the cost of the investment. It can be said that the price was extracted during the 30-year period, but there was a more specific reason for this, which came from the issue of debt settlement at the time of the regime change. Returning to the hearing of the Minister-designate János Lázár, Minister-designate since then, he informed the European Affairs Committee that Brussels was being negotiated on three issues. One of the fundamental questions is whether Hungary had the right to conclude this contract. He raised this in such a tone that Brussels could doubt that Hungary would conclude such a treaty as a sovereign state, although, in the light of European competition law, this issue is not so evident without competitive competition. The Minister-designate said that this is what is being discussed with Brussels, one of the cardinal points. The other cardinal issue is sovereign debt, so is it not prohibited state aid or price support that the Hungarian party treats the investment as a public debt and does not intend to enforce it at the price of electricity? 'Cause from an economic point of view, it's not obvious at all. Someone said there's no contract like this anywhere. No! So investment on this scale, in such a broken-down construction, that the construction of the public debt, and then the cost of the product produced, is only included in the cost of operation, is not in the world. It may be possible in China, but even there they expect a return. And that's where I'd like to return to the presentation. If such a loan contract does not otherwise exclude the return calculations of the basic project, then how can it be assessed, Minister? So, when the government can't or won't present the preparatory documents for ten years, knowing the number of corners, the Regional Energy Research Centre, under the leadership of Kaderjak teacher - who led the energy office in your time, so it's hardly possible to blame for left-wing inclination - he said in this January period that this is an investment that will never return, because it will still remain, with fifty years' duration, if twice this electricity price is calculated, so that the current electricity price is 30 forints per kilowatt hour, and that is far from the 12 forints you are trying to present to public opinion, this investment will not be refunded, it will still remain 100 billion forints, which will not be refunded after fifty years' time. So, Minister, in such a way that you will not attempt to present to the Hungarian Parliament the return on the investment covered by it, not to mention the Hungarian public opinion, this suggests that what you say is responsible planning, that the result of this responsible planning will be the sovereign debt path below 60 per cent after 2020, to what extent it can be believed. Out of opposition judgment - although you've been trying to hustle things around here about me [[Mihály Varga: Facts.]] - as a responsible opposition, I can say that I would like to see the return prognosis of this project along the time horizon. It's kind of talkative or telltale that you guys don't want to come up with that by any chance. Let me tell you a few things about the greatness of the credit agreement. In international contracts with this scale, compensation always arises, so 100% compensation is the starting point, let's say that the Russian party would buy, for example, Hungarian agricultural products or manufacturing products to this extent. Press reports reported that the Korean nuclear power plant building company was thinking about 120 percent compensation, so it wanted to invest in South Korea up to 120 percent of the value of the purchased nuclear power plant. This does not even arise in relation to the assessment of the credit agreement. The other is the interest rate level. With this contract, the entire loan contract will be placed at the level of interest on the Russian government debt instead of the levels of interest available by Europe and Hungary. The presentation appeared on Russian-language portals before it could be read to anyone in Hungarian. It's no secret, I have friends of Hungarian experts who understand Russian well, and I knew from them what the relationship of this contract was, and they informed me that this is an extremely one-sided contract: the guarantees are on the Russian side without exception, so they are there, the sanctions, the obligations are here without exception. The possibility of repayment at the same time is a very nice thing, but the truth is, it shows that the Russians are basically trying to build and not look at the financial part. The only thing about the loan is that it's half at this level, so 2.2% is the comparative value of nearly 4 percent of you, compared to 3.95 percent, and on the other hand, it's unparalleled that there's no law governing it. Both Russia and Hungary are members of the WTO, so take this into account and at least correct that there is a right to settle disputes. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2014-06-11-175	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-06-11-176	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Again, I wanted to respond to some of the things that have been said. First of all, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán asked how many of the opposition's ranks have read this proposal; the question is absolutely right. I will also ask how many of the Fidesz's ranks have read the framework strategy for national sustainable development, which the Orbán government has adopted, has been adopted with your vote, and it is clearly a question of taking responsibility for future generations, of preventing the country from being indebted, and of such things, which is completely contrary to the current credit agreement. I know that these framework strategies have nothing to do with government work, it is sad enough to be so, but I can tell you that knowledge of it is just as relevant as the issue of the current credit agreement. I would also like to thank Minister Mihály Varga for giving me enlightening answers, and he mentioned British and Finnish examples of current development. I would ask you, Minister, because you are certainly more informed about this than I am, how much of this is made of Russian credit, how much is made of Russian raw material, how much is supplied by Rosatom. So they're using the same technology? Are they using the same sources? [[17.50]] They're calling our attention to talking about this loan. If we're talking about a loan, let's see if they're doing it from such sources, if they're willing to take on such a loan, if that's how they're doing it. At the same time, he says we're in the fourth generation. Then why don't we wait till the fifth floor? Couldn't that be better? Couldn't that be more modern? Isn't there another technology worth waiting for while we're talking about it? Then you asked yourself that we can easily talk about renewable energy sources, but what, what can be made of, what can be made of, what can be done to make that large-scale development. It's like you're saying that the only reason we're doing nuclear energy is because we got a loan for it. Based on such a principle, if there is money for this now, because they give us a loan to spend it with them, this is not a strong argument that this development is needed. One last thought, I see, my time is up, all you could say was that you should go back...
u2014-06-11-177	Congressman, your time has not expired, I have given you the floor within a 15-minute time frame. I even called in 15 minutes.
u2014-06-11-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, then I don't have to talk, it's a big help to me, thank you very much, and it's not that big, but I'm not. You were saying as an argument that you have to go back to renegotiating. If that's what it takes, I think we're gonna put that plane ticket together, and Mr. Lazarus will surely know a cheap hotel, and we'll have to go back and renegotiate. So we need to look at the opportunity to create better conditions for using, say, the same money for renewable energy sources. In the same way, I would like to say to Mr Kepli that I am pleased that we do not speak very contrary things. Believe me, Congressman, I am also a committed believer in our country's energy independence. But the thinking that now gives rise to nuclear energy is about as if we were on the express train from Nyíregyháza to Győr towards the back of the train, and we think that it can be reached Nyíregyháza. No, you have to get off the train! As long as the resources and resources available are used for a bad purpose, of course, there is no exit. Of course we don't have a choice. You just have to get off this train, it's gonna take us the wrong way. There are countless examples of this in the world. You have an absolute belief in technology, an unconditional belief that it cannot be corrupted or destroyed. I apologize, but I don't have that faith. It's not because I'm very fond of reading Murphy, but I know that what could go wrong will go wrong. There have not been one or two examples of this in the world, with a much higher price. When we calculate costs, I read such amazing amounts that after Fukushima, the economic loss was estimated to be between 250 billion and 500 billion dollars, and the cost of concrete recovery exceeded 300 billion dollars. We're not gonna get any credit in this if there's any restoration. But let's not paint the devil on the wall, and let's not talk about it, but let's get to what we've been asked to do, talk about this loan, the EUR 10 billion loan. If I understand correctly, this is a foreign exchange loan, the exchange rate risks are borne by Hungary. For the past four years, I think this government has spoken relatively much about how to escape the trap of foreign currency credit. Compared to this, we are now taking on a loan that we have paid for practically the same period of decades, with the share of capital, interest and, as yet, unknown exchange rate, so that it is determined in advance that 70 percent of the loan can be used by Russian companies. So we take out a loan, we give back 60 percent of it, and all by questioning why we have concerns. Congressman András Aradski asked us why we are so suspicious and why we ask what is behind this, why we come up with this. Technically, before the elections, this news was announced as a completely unexpected event. It was like Fidesz was a little scared of losing the election, and before that, he wanted to do something big. Why couldn't you think of that more? Why couldn't you just go through this and look at alternative options? Why didn't we think about what would serve the nation's long-term aspirations for self-preservation, which the Fidesz government is supposed to have? Energy independence? Energy independence can be built from resources available in the Carpathian Basin. A system in which we will be forever addicted to raw material, which has external environmental effects, which we do not have a proper plan to manage, we do not know the scale of its increasing costs, it certainly does not help economic self-sustainability. It is very, very long to talk about Chernobyl, but I do not want to make that mistake, I think, that this was the case between Parliament's walls before I came here. It was explained how it happened that 160,000 square kilometers of radiation were affected. I think it has already been mentioned how anti-evolutionary antagonism can endanger the heritage material at any level. The basic evolutionary needs of all species, the success of the species, and which can cause damage to DNA, which in thyroid cancer systems can, in practice, cause cancers after birth that we do not have a shot at treating, these are risks that cannot be ignored. Honestly, I don't think of myself as an explicit green politician, and I don't just want to say environmental aspects, but at the same time, it's historical irresponsible what we're doing here. Using a resource that has a big, heavy burden on the next generation, using it for a purpose that has a big, big mistake, creating big, big problems for many social and economic problems in the future, I think it's a very, very big mistake. Mr András Aradszki said in his comments that we need this development because the current government here in Hungary has dreamed of a work-based society, work-based development. But if a significant part of the resources goes to improvements that do not necessarily create jobs, they cannot be realised. I have listened very patiently to this hooligan law when there was a conversation about access systems and I have had a lot of fun in the comments of my better fellow Members. At the same time, it never occurs to me who's going to go to these stadiums. How many kids in the country can go to games? How many people will have jobs to use that energy? What will our economy be like? Will that be necessary? Because if necessary, we will take into account the innovation opportunity from which we have taken funds in recent years. In recent years - and I have been talking about the past ten years - resources have consistently been removed from science, research and innovation. It did not create a condition for society to use its ability to examine the possibilities of how to be better, how to achieve much less. We're gonna cut back on gas, we're gonna have gas? It's the reduction of the overhead that we don't use energy that we don't need. Are we past the fact that we have replaced Hungary with all its public lighting? Are we past looking at the potential for local renewable energy use for all major energy users? Did we put substantial energy into this? Would we have made it possible, with a substantial source, not 30 per cent government support, or EU support, which slightly exceeds the amount of VAT, the thermal insulation of family homes in rural settlements, and the development of building engineering, to transform this energy in substance so that we do not use it? At this age, when all technology has given us a significant reduction in our energy dependency, our energy demand, is that when we begin to increase our energy production? Wouldn't it improve the economy if we didn't develop a major development locally, but carried it to regions, settlements, as many Hungarian settlements as possible, the possibility of reducing energy demand through building modernisation, building engineering and insulation? Wouldn't it create more jobs all over the country if we went in this direction? The same question: have we considered the alternatives in substance? Was there a long thought in Parliament to look at the path to achieving energy independence? What is the path that takes you in this direction? I think with complete conviction that nuclear power is not the way. Have we looked at the alternative options, good examples, bad examples that create the opportunity for each region to look for its own path, have we looked at all the alternatives that exist in the world right now? I do not like the use of biomass in principle, but there are still a lot of opportunities in the country to model it even at a sub-regional level. I am not a fan of wind power, but at the same time there are still landscapes where energy can be produced without destroying the landscape so that it can be utilized. And for the past four years, there hasn't been any meaningful government effort. At the same time, I fully see that the " cheaper electricity " clause cannot be achieved from an economic point of view. How can it be realized if we really don't want to include the sources of development in the price? How can this happen if we have to fund it from government resources, public money? We also have to pay for this, and we could use this resource for a purpose, a direction which, in line with Mr Kepli's wishes and mine, leads to energy independence, which gives small regions the opportunity to think about their own energy supply systems. [[18.00]] Because I am convinced that this is the future, not the development of a nuclear reactor or two nuclear reactors in the country. Overall, I would still respond to Mr Aradski, don't I, I will always return to his thoughts, because he said such things, that he practically reacted to how much credit was taken up during the governance of the MSZP, and why it hurt now that this small loan will be taken up. Worse than that, who took on the bigger loan, the humiliating approach that the other one was even worse, I can't imagine! Surely the MSZP has learned how to farm, and here it has learned the damage in recent years about how to use those 8 years - and Fidesz? Is that your argument that now it's a smaller loan and a better condition? So I can't accept this argument system. It's a good loan. I would like to know that if the Hungarian government expects each Hungarian candidate to conduct a simplified procurement procedure or a procurement procedure for the simplest procurements, where are the documents showing that this was indeed the best offer. Where are all the offers in which you can see that this is really the cheapest technology, this is the best technology, this is the state-of-the-art, we have the comparative results of how many more development opportunities we would have had? And if, for some reason, the government is, to me, unacceptably committed to nuclear power, has it considered at least the development opportunities there, in all cases, how many places, how can it be obtained, how can this be guaranteed on the credit issue? This is a clear way for me to understand that any level of acceptance and support of a credit agreement that will have an adverse effect on Hungarian society for the next 20-30-40 years, and I am not talking about whether or not it could be a nuclear accident, but I am talking about it, that 20 years later, 30 years later, when our children become adults, they can still take home 30 and 40 out of every 100 HUF they receive, because Hungarian employers and workers will still be burdened with public burdens that encourage them to finance irresponsible commitments of this kind? So, in my opinion, this is what is unacceptable, and the surprise to me is that in Fidesz government ranks, this has received any support. The strange thing is that the government that is committed to reducing public debt is able to take on a completely irresponsible development of a loan that has undetectable consequences, all from Putin or Putin, whose conflict management solutions mostly cover either a threat to the shutdown of the gas tap or to maintain different military practices along the border. So these are basically the reasons why I think that the LMP faction will not be able to support this treaty in any way, and these are the reasons why I would ask all Members of the respected Fidesz faction, not just those who are here, but even those who are not here today, so that they might reconsider, do not support this, and do not conclude this treaty. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-11-179	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2014-06-11-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of only one of the Members present, but also the Minister is a Fidesz and a Member, to three numbers in order to shape responsible planning and the debt path. In nominal terms, you managed to increase the nominal value of the government debt by more than HUF 3 000 billion over your four years in HUF, below 20 000 billion, and at present it was well over 23 000 billion, but even at the end of 2013. So here's a nominally $3,000 billion that's been added. Also 3,000 billion from private pension fund assets, I'm not saying it was abducted because it was used for budget purposes, but it was consumed by a $3,000 billion reserve. And here's the next 3,000 billion, the Paks II. a loan agreement. So if we add this up, your contribution to the debt path - it's true, this will come up later - is an extra 9 thousand billion to the value of less than 20,000 billion at the time of the government change in 2010. That's part of it. The other one. The low energy price is indeed a competitive advantage, if it is really low; to 30 HUF/ kilowattto, which is the real cost and electricity cost of this Paks II, is not so much anymore. Saving energy is the real saving. So if we were to use it in such a thousand billion-dollar scale, for example, for building renovation, equipment modernisation, it would provide less energy use in the long run for ever. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-11-181	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, the LMP Group.
u2014-06-11-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing whether Hungary should take a loan of EUR 10 billion, or HUF 3 000 billion from Russia. Meanwhile, for decades debt has been one of Hungary's most serious problems; while many families are unable to get out of the credit trap, the country's elected representatives, in particular most of them, are preparing to engage in another gigantic loan. I do not think that the idea can be avoided, when there is a growing consensus that foreign currency credit is a defective product, this is also true of the euro loan to be taken out of Russia. Yes, the Paks loan is a faulty product, primarily because it is unpredictable and creates unilateral conditions for Hungary. It may not be a coincidence that no one from the government has spoken and informed me about the details of the agreement and the Paks enlargement in general. I think you know that this is a bad agreement, the worst deal of the century, and that is why you are trying to hide every detail from the Hungarian people and the Members of Parliament for as long as possible. In response to government secrecy, LMP turned to the players of the Paks expansion with a large number of public interest data requests. The party has requested and subsequently sues the impact studies that underpin the enlargement against both the Ministry of National Development and the MVM project companies set up for the Paks expansion. Similarly, the LMP is in a lawsuit to learn about the operation of enlargement or to map astronomical legal orders in connection with enlargement. If all this information is made public [[The President shall ring the bell to indicate the end of the speaking time.]] you would be aware that the negotiation of the credit agreement would not take place in these circumstances. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Member János Volner, Jobbik Group.
u2014-06-11-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government side, as my opposition colleagues have already indicated, has been severely depleted, only two of their representatives have remained in the Chamber, which I consider to be a very thin result, because it is a credit agreement that was born about the biggest order for the Hungarian economy, and only two Fidesz Members are interested in this. For the record, they are also ex officio, since they must speak to this bill on their own initiative, not because the others would be particularly interested. What concerns us, 30 percent were previously designated as a Hungarian supplier's share, and now it has increased to 40 percent, and 40 percent of the nuclear power plant investment is expected from Hungarian suppliers. I took the trouble and visited the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, spoke there with the responsible engineer, who was responsible for enlargement, who had international experience in this field, and asked how we were doing with the catching up and technological partnership of Hungarian companies. After all, it is clear that since the change of regime, in no small part, the Hungarian industry has deteriorated due to the joint government activities of the socialists and Fidesz, our industrial capacities have failed. How will the 40 percent, but even the 30 percent, of Hungarian suppliers come together? I asked Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here in Parliament to mention to me, please, the only law since his entry into office that the government has dealt with industrial policy. The Prime Minister couldn't mention any of them. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that there are all the components of this agreement, and the only thing that is missing is the strengthening of Hungarian businesses and the development of their abilities. This is an important issue that should be considered, since their share of suppliers exceeds the thousand billion forints as planned by the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]] [[18.10]]
u2014-06-11-185	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. I'll give you the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-06-11-186	Thank you, Mr. President. I am saying this to the pro-government Members, because you have made this decision alone, covered by two-thirds of the mandate at the end of the term. Yet, this decision seems to have been made in haste and unprepared. This decision was taken sneaking around without agreement, leaving the professionals, the settlements of the region, the majority of the parliamentary parties out of the decision. Let's just agree that this is not a very elegant and not a very democratic decision. Form. When you took over government, if you thought seriously and responsibly that you wanted to create opportunities for Hungarian businesses, you would have started this expansion, then you could have started negotiations with civilians, professional organisations, preparing the region and entrepreneurs already in 2010. Professionals, engineers and qualified skilled workers would have started training in time, because, you know, fellow Members, there are not 500-600 engineers with domestic professional experience everywhere, thousands of qualified professional workers in Hungary. The lack of preparation is indicated by the fact that even their own mayor of Fidesz Paks said, after the decision was made, that his concerned self was overcome, he does not know whether we can meet the task. You know, gentlemen and ladies, democracy, negotiations, entrepreneurial forums must not only be coaxed, but these inevitable processes must be treated seriously as a professional issue. Paksians, Paks professionals and Hungarian professionals are rightfully proud of their professional skills, which they do not want to squander. Thus, if, in the wake of your hasty decisions, 40 percent Hungarian suppliers and contractors' participation in the declaration of intent of the Russian party cannot be achieved, it will be your fault. There won't be a way out of this. You have done nothing to prepare Hungarian businesses and the region. Pakson must be the first professional, because this decision is not a one-cycle decision, it will continue to be implemented even after your government, four years from now. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is not a crate factory, it is a plant that requires considerable preparedness and professional knowledge. The Paksians, Hungarian professionals, not only want to accommodate and feed foreign professionals, they want to participate in the professional work. The profession must create jobs, not law firms and language schools. This is your responsibility to ensure that if this investment starts, Hungarian professional companies will be able to ensure 40 percent of Hungarian entrepreneurial participation. If we don't take advantage of this opportunity and we lose a lot of jobs, that would be a huge sin. We'll follow their steps. Thank you.
u2014-06-11-187	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be held by László Kiss, the MSZP Group. Normal speech, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-11-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I mean, there are fewer and fewer of us, but I guess it's not a bad thing to bump into the positions we can tell each other. I agree with everyone who has said here that people want cheap electricity, but that is not what this proposal provides. It is right to say that this does not work as if this investment did not happen, as if a special situation had created this power plant, and that this investment should not be repaid to anyone. One way or another, the price of this investment will be built into both electricity and people's daily lives. It's a shame to argue with that. If not directly, this will happen indirectly. It is also a pity to argue that the loan is expensive or cheap, because while, obviously, we compare it with an interest rate that is not for this type of loan, then, of course, this loan may be cheap, but it is actually about the fact that the interest rate on this loan is about 2 percent more expensive than if we would take it in a different way, and this is a lot of money. I'd like to go down a little bit to the common people's scale, because I think that might be a better way to understand this issue. If I want to run a flame oven in Frog County, then it's obvious that I'm doing an impact study on whether it's worth it: do people like this product, will they buy it from me, will I need it, will I make a living? Every entrepreneur in Hungary does this. That's what a flamer does. When my fellow Members ask me where the pre-calculations are, where are the background calculations on the return of the project, this is not the devil's idea. It's based on common sense when someone asks for it. I already apologize if I run a flame oven like this, if I start a business like this, then I think that an investment of this size should at least be expected to know what the Parliament or the nationalist is talking about. Of course, it is possible to accuse my fellow opposition Members of not arguing about point 3/b of the Treaty, but in fact everyone who is here knows that this is not just a question of whether the comma is in the right place on page 6 or not. You have to see that, while the countries of the planet, on this planet, almost everyone is trying to create energy independence by reducing their energy consumption, while we are starting an adventure that we cannot see the end of. No one should receive an economic Nobel Prize if they consider the one small thing that energy independence can not only be created as an increase in the amount of domestic energy produced at home, but also as a reduction in consumption. While energy policy is the direction of energy policy everywhere in order to reduce energy consumption, taking into account the responsible energy consumption, so that real consumption is what determines the energy consumption, Hungary is preparing not to carry out such processes here, but to remain constant in energy consumption. I think it would be worth going in the direction of what would happen if this 2000 watts, which will be produced by Pakson, were supposedly later, were not needed. What if the Hungarian energy policy were so modern that it would go in the direction of reducing, reducing our energy dependency by reducing the use of energy? People were not asked about this loan agreement, they did not ask whether everyone wanted to be indebted to the Russian party by HUF 300,000. I think if I asked that question like this, let's say we have the III. In the district, I'm not sure the majority would say yes, I'd like to be indebted to the Russian party by HUF 300,000. I sincerely doubt that consensus could otherwise be reached. But, of course, that's the question I think you should ask. Yeah, it's a little psychic to talk about what you could do with that kind of money. Because it's a lot of things. But I think it is not from the devil to talk about the fact that there are renewable energy sources other than this resource. Please, I live in a city that has almost unprecedented renewable energy sources in Europe. This city is called Budapest. I live in a city where there is virtually nothing to prevent the use of geothermal energy, except the intention, because the government's intention to do so in terms of Budapest has never really been. Miracles could be done. Miracles could be done with the heating of dwellings, miracles could be done with the heating of condos in relation to the use of geothermal energy. We are not talking about an insignificant city: Budapest. I think that if the resources were to point in the direction that those of renewable energy sources, which are truly usable, which are a real solution to the country, would certainly be better off in this direction. These resources are a lot of money. We're talking huge, almost opaque amounts of money. It can be said that a fraction of this amount could be used to make improvements that would actually reduce Hungary's dependence on energy. [[18.20]] If we look at whether a government measure has actually taken place, is there really an intention to reduce our dependence on energy by developing renewable energy sources, we should say that in the last few years we have not seen very serious directions for this, and we have not seen very much investment. Hungary is constantly driving in the use of renewable energy sources. And it's not about doing miracles. It is not about replacing nuclear energy or fossil energy immediately. It is a matter of moving in a different direction, of taking a different approach. This other approach is to reduce energy consumption and promote research into renewable energy sources that generally reduces the country's energy dependency. I think that this would be the direction that Hungarian energy investments should serve, but it seems that with this project, this direction will disappear. But obviously everyone can also feel that if this investment is implemented, if this contract is concluded, then such an investment in energy will not happen, so we have practically checked our energy policy. Everyone can face the fact that it is a good thing that Hungarian energy policy will be equal to an unconditional increase in nuclear power. I can't take a pro and a versus a stand, and I'm not willing to say that one energy carrier is good and the other energy carrier is bad, because it's logical that you can't channel nuclear energy overnight. However, the issue here is that until 2030, Paks' operation has been resolved. It is a matter of not having such a commitment for a very long time. If, on the other hand, this is the reality, then everyone rightly asks the question of why this is the direction. Why, though, should the government choose one of the many options that it can choose? What is the reason for this? I am one of those who believe that the main reason for this is that in the election campaign they made an agreement which had no or no public background in Hungarian public thinking, Hungarian political dialogue, and this is the Russian-Hungarian agreement that you wanted to use to increase their advantage in the election campaign by up to 1, up to 2 percent, this is how it now appears in Hungarian energy policy. However, we feel that such an increase in volume is disproportionate with the bombing of a political goal of talm. That's not how it's supposed to be done. In order for you to be the subject of the media that you already control during the election for a week, it is a shame to bring such an investment here. There has been a lot of talk about the impossibility of this project. I do not wish to repeat what has already been said to me by my fellow Members, who have spoken about how unprecedented the amount is, how unprecedented the interest rate is, how difficult these conditions are, which are being imposed on us. But it's obvious that if it was a foreign currency loan that could be taken out to buy the panel apartment, they wouldn't be hiring it. If such conditions could be concluded, no one would take this loan, and there would be no purchase of a flat from this loan. Then it is also very clear that, of course, it is an incredible advantage for the Hungarian party that it can pay off; everyone who is monitoring the Hungarian government's actions in relation to foreign exchange lenders falls in love with this expression, too. I sincerely wish to the Fidesz government, but also to Hungary that, say, within ten years, we should be in a position to cancel such a loan; so that we can cough up one of those 3000 billion forints immediately so that we are not dependent on the Russian state, but that we can pay it out of place. I sincerely wish we were in this situation. But if we look into each other's eyes, do we also ask how rational that is? So we can really be in this situation? We are glad that they were able to find some oil deposits in the area of Lake Balaton, which has not yet been, or diamond mines or platinum mines will open up in Hungary, but frankly, I am less optimistic about this. I think that this is such a risk for the Hungarian economy, and it makes the everyday life of Hungarian politics so difficult for the Russian party, which, I think, is unsuitable for an EU Member State and, by the way, for a sovereign country, for Hungary. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-11-189	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-11-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Perhaps I should start where my fellow Member Kiss left off: this is prepayment or final repayment, as he called it. I think that Hungary is in a position to do so if this is the preferred solution for the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian budget. He's done it before. Paying back a loan doesn't necessarily mean finding a diamond mine and paying it back. The point is that there are certain interest conditions in this loan agreement right now, and I said in my first speech that it makes sense to pay it back when interest rates are set in such a way that, in the next 10 to 20 years, it may be possible to apply more favourable conditions, it must be taken up and paid back. That's what we talked about. But since my fellow Member Kiss here has spoken about heating, Budapest and the fact that, of course, energy needs can not only be solved by building, but also by reducing consumption, of course, we agree to a certain degree. By the way, they don't really heat with electricity. The heating we are talking about here, which may be being helped by geothermal, including the waste heat of electricity generation, is in many cases used by district heating providers, at least that would be the ideal one. My fellow Member, Józsa, mentioned earlier how we knew it, but this was a broad topic of opposition, how the government knew what would happen in 20 and 30 years, because energy demand would decrease. One small thing is forgotten, my fellow Members, that in 20 to 30 years there will be significantly less petroleum or petroleum derivatives. It's obvious that today is the trend of switching from an explosive engine to a hybrid in transport. It is likely that in 20-30 years, when this nuclear power plant is going to start really full, we will probably have more or less electric cars, which, by the way, is obviously very fitting into green policy. A car engine we're using today is 100 kilowatts. It will take an incredible amount of electrical energy to replace the disappearing - thank God, if you will, disappear - fossil petroleum derivatives from transport. We have to make a statement, we can be quite sure of that. So I am convinced that there will be a substantial increase in the demand for electricity. Once again, what we are talking about is not really the subject of this, but I wanted to respond here. The reason for the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant was considered to be why the Russian party and, for example, why not the South Korean one. Here's a very good example, the story of subway 4. With Siemens control system, they're going to Alstom cars; a subway, a subway assembly. This coordination, its automation after major delays, has been very difficult to solve, even though it is a much simpler technical problem. [[18.30]] I guess I don't really have to explain what this is all about to Congressman Józsa. It is clear from the point of view of energy security and technical safety that this version had to be preferred. I'm also sorry, I'll tell you honestly, that Szabó Timea is no longer here, because he was an example of China. I would always think that the LMPs or ex-LMPs were very prepared for such green topics. We have heard from him that the share of renewable energy in China is now higher than the share of nuclear and coal use. I looked at it on the Internet, though, where I found 2012 data. Indeed, in Chinese energy production, water energy is relatively high and growing, 16 percent, wind energy is 2 which, by the way, is dramatically increasing, I could not find a number for the atom, but 75 percent is the coal power plant, which is one of the worst environmental aspects since it is one of the most dangerous because of greenhouse gases and CO2 emissions. My fellow Member Sallai pushed Lajos Kepli down a bit, who said that he believed that nuclear energy was still needed today. He asked me how to say that. I think we should forget these ex-cathedra statements quoting past MSZP-SZSZ times, who is absolutely right and who is not, and who might be of a different opinion, we will try to push them out of the story. I think if he thinks it is, and he believes it, then it's not that bad. That could happen, too. Speaking of Jobbik in this regard, our fellow Member Anita Heringes said that the two thirds had passed this law. I'd like to point out that it was voted not by two thirds, but by over 80 percent. All right, I could just say that it is a dwarf minority who opposes this, since then, many of these little dwarfs have become minor, even less minor, but of course I respect the opinion. This is a controversial story, so the right to debate is definitely there, and I just want us to stay at some level around the facts. Let us get back to the issue of credit very briefly. Here, many try to combine it with foreign currency credit, defective products and other rather populist arguments. It is a natural thing to say that a state takes credit in foreign currency on the world market. Forint loans on the world market are not very distributed at present. Our fellow Member Volner had at least one suggestion in this regard that a bond should be issued in Hungary and could then be financed from forints. The impact that this would have on Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises' access to credit, the growth potential and the growth potential of the entire Hungarian economy is another issue, because if we pulled 3000 billion out of the credit market, it would have consequences. With regard to energy security and Russian dependence, it is important to consider that from renewable energies, such as wind energy and so on, not going into the issue of how suitable Hungary is for this, how we have permanent wind, which could rotate power plants, wind turbines, how we could store energy, because it can be done in China, Switzerland and Austria, because wind energy pumps water up to high mountains, and from when there is a mountain procession - as they say - in energy demand, it can be regulated by hydro turbines, it works as a kind of battery, well this is not done in Hungary. But beyond that, wind power plants are not put into the system by sweeping the hummus aside, and then there are wind turbines. It's a very long time, and we can safely add that it's an incredible amount of money. With great respect, let me say - obviously you will not be surprised - that I am not very convinced by your arguments, especially with those arguments - I am now putting aside the various political wordings - that Hungary will not need electricity in twenty to thirty years' time. I'm very unconvinced. I am convinced that we will not need less, but much more, because fossil energy and fossil fuels will be significantly reduced. I'm gonna tell you one more time, think about the traffic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech.
u2014-06-11-192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I can think of a few things in court. Mr László Kiss, as he began to tell me the details of the loan and I began to look at the presentation, I immediately began to wonder how secure it was to carry out it. I wondered how many improvements in Hungary in the last 13 years have been made from Metro 4 to the motorways, which cost as much as was planned. How long has it taken to get ready as planned, what is it when we actually did it? At the same time, I see that in 12 years, the loan received between 2014 and 2025 will have to be repaid in 21 years, and the repayment will have to start in 2026 even if V and VI are not ready. Bloc. We commit ourselves to an obligation that we have no guarantee of. We are full of questions that basically question feasibility in the form of whether it is able to do so. I don't get a lot of details in the contract. On behalf of the Member, the criticism of how much we talk about credit has been raised. Obviously, yes, because basically I'm talking about whether it's justified to take this credit, and I'm saying it's not justified. Forgive me, with all due respect, you didn't convince me that this was a legitimate loan, nor that it was a good investment. That way, we can respect each other's opinions that it is a good conviction if I think that I would not take such a loan if it were not for nuclear energy. Overall, there are a lot of questions: it is not clear what the 0,25 percent availability fee is to be understood in all of this. It doesn't come out clearly. For the amount not used as final accounts at the end of the year, per day or for the whole year? Does this call for savings? So, in my opinion, this is not a lucky and good loan, even if it were not for the wrong purpose. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-11-193	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group has applied. I would like to point out to Mr President that you will then have a normal comment, so now, according to the Rules of the House, the two minutes and the normal timeframe will be combined with you in a 17-minute time frame.
u2014-06-11-194	Please, Mr. President, don't put this together, because I'd like to speak in a different genre in two minutes...
u2014-06-11-195	Excuse me, I'm gonna need a second. I'm gonna count the time. You can decide to give your comment in two minutes, sit down, and I'll give you the floor again. If that pleases you, then do so.
u2014-06-11-196	That's how I do it, because it's two different genres. Then reboot the clock, please. Or will you add half a minute, Mr. President? That's good, too. [[18.40]] So I didn't want to convince Mr. Chenger-Zalan of the nonsense that in 20 years there would be no need for electricity. Don't even think about it. But you couldn't convince me that what you're doing right now wasn't a leap into the dark. This jumps into the dark in any professional way, because you do not really know, taking into account these transport projections, what you will do with the additional capacity of 2,5 thousand megawatts between 2026 and 2032. He does not know what experts know that it will not be 12 HUF/kilowatt-hour current, it will not be 15 HUF/kilowatt-hour current, but 30 HUF/kilowatt-hour electricity at the general government level. So what you're saying is that it's going to be a cheap electricity and it's going to be wrapped up in the subject of a reduction in overhead. That's still going on today, and then, when the power plant's ready and we have to pay the rent, we can't do it anymore. About the electric car: of course, we will need cheap electricity, but what Hungary has not yet mined is geothermal energy, the earth's heat. And I'm not talking about heat pumps, but there are fourth generation hydroelectric power plants that can generate 1,000 megawatts of electricity, and five times as much heat and heating energy can also be gained. What you were referring to, my fellow Member, is that there is a volcanic fault in the vicinity of Budapest, where you can find this layer of high enthalpy at a depth of 3-4 thousand metres, so you referred to Iceland, Reykjavík, to produce this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-11-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will be a speech in the normal timeframe, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-06-11-198	Thank you, Mr. President, the house rules gave me the opportunity. In my normal comment, I would actually like to refer to some of the foreign policy implications of the Treaty. Thus, representatives who are responsible on the opposition side, we believe that this decision by the Orbán Government, which is part of this proposal, is particularly risky in foreign policy too. It is a serious mistake that both you and the government consider this to be a private matter of Fidesz and the moonyard, and they even invented a kind of confused philosophy to support Viktor Orbán's sudden Russian friendship. Of course, according to the Orbán-Putin pact, what one Russian news portal wrote is that if Russia has a real European sister, it is actually Hungary. That's what they honestly wrote, and they honestly see it that way. But what we need to see is that the person who builds on the small country-large patron-brother relationship, which embodies the centre-periphery relationship, instead of a European Union based on multicentrum and network cooperation, will already bring the country into a subordinate role. It's all the more weird because we're not under any decision-making obligation right now. In fact, I have already explained this in my first comment, and we are not in a decision-making position regarding the professional merits of the expansion of the nuclear power plant. Not only do we, not only professional public life, but the public opinion of the country expect you to at least replace this professional foundation, but not just tohuvabohu as a reason for enlargement. As I said, the current blocks can still function until 2032-2037, and so this decision, which you have now made, is not met by the terms of the 2009 joint parliamentary decision to complete the professional preparation, should actually be taken in 2018-2019. So there is another 5-6 years, during which a fourth generation hydroelectric power plant of 600 megawatts was installed in several locations in the world, for example in Turkey, last year. In Italy, there has been an 800 megawatt electricity power plant in operation for decades. I'm not taking the Icelandic example because it's special and extreme. But geologists know that there are three places where the earth's crust is as thin as under Hungary, Iceland and certain special areas of China. So we can't use this gift to live in a country that is practically blessed with geothermal properties, and that, I've already referred to the American shale gas example, they're using their own energy supply, our own domestic energy supply is the earth heat that is below us and can be produced in large quantities. The other is that you see this loan as something that doesn't have to be included in the price of electricity. There is a source where investment in the construction of alternative energy sources really does not have to be included in the price of electricity, because it is supported by the Union on the investment side as a support for green energy. So, we do not take advantage of the potential of land heating in Hungary, we do not take advantage of this innovation, for which our talents are extremely good, the source of energy is within our borders, and overall, it is the same scale as this expansion of the nuclear power plant, not taking advantage of the 5-6 years that we have until the decision is made, we say that there is a lack of responsible thinking. Because what you now know about the 20 years later prognosis and what we see here is these very unfavourable financial conditions, because don't believe what's in the government referral: the loan guaranteed by this state is half that much interest. And I am sorry that Congressman Csenger-Zalán has, to some extent, been conflicted with the prepayment, because, as an example, the IMF loan brought forward by 6 weeks was due to the final repayment, which the industry is well aware of, as a result of a bond issue at twice the rate of interest, the amount of the repayment from which it was repaid was available. So this experience, as you have outlined here, does not anticipate the later projected thing that, when it becomes cheaper than Russian interest, we will replace it. Why should we get it when they see that our agreement is already there? So it's a bit of a lame loan; it's not a lame loan, it's a lame argument. So, professionally, you really shouldn't come up with that. I'd like to make another quote from your prime minister. Not so long ago he said, in the region of 2007, when he argued that he said this to the public, so it is documented that " Russian reason is not market-based, but state-based, political mindset, in which not the acceptance of competition, but the pursuit of monopoly situations is natural. " At that time, Viktor Orbán considered it a special Russian concept that energy companies should be state-owned in the strongest dependence. At that time, Viktor Orbán warned against the Russian dependence on Hungary's energy supply, which he said in comparison with the Nabucco conference and the South Stream. Now, although it is true that oil consumption is in a slump after a few decades, the trend of gas consumption is already decreasing, so the modern combined cycle gas power plants are not functioning because of price problems, E.ON has closed its power plant in Debrecen, interrupting the operation of the new 400 megawatt power plant in Gönyü due to gas price problems, so you are right about that. [[18.50]] But the solution now is not a very expensive nuclear power plant, it is not an electricity price for a total of 30 HUF/kilowatt, but rather an innovation based on earth's heat mining. I agree with you that the wind is not always blowing and not too windy Hungary; there are some areas, but wind wheels have already been built there. It is also true that the number of sunny hours in southern Portugal is 1.5 times higher than in the best Röszke region of Hungary, so these can only be complementary, additional energy sources; so can biomass. However, it should not be forgotten that small local biomass plants serving village communities, for example, can be a significant source of local employment, rural job opportunities and thus of conservation capacity. But on such a scale as Paks II. It means energy, electricity, earth heat mining will compete, and if the innovative steps in this regard - to say so - disappear now, in our opinion, because of a slightly premature Paks decision, it will surely damage the country. So András Aradszki is right in that - I don't know whether he was speaking here as a Member or as a State Secretary, here on behalf of the KDNP - that, in the 20-year perspective, we are really talking about replacing 10,000 megawatts of capacity. He's a little involved in this, not exactly what he said, but that's what I mean with good intentions. But if we accept this professionally, then we also need to know that there is a need for a continuous use of the earth's thermal power plant, which is truly independent of any external impact, in addition to the additional 2500 megawatts and 4000-4500 megawatts nuclear capacity. And in addition to saying that this is feasible here in Budapest, district heating of the capital can also be ensured by geothermal, which is much cheaper than gas or biomass; it is not possible to find a competitive energy source for the thermal power plant that produces electricity and five times as much heating energy. So I would like to use this debate to do so because, as you can see, Minister, Member, who is also dealing with the policy aspects of this - as Minister said - is involved in this issue, because it is very right for a Member to try to understand something; this is more an advantage than a disadvantage - so that they do not neglect, develop the MEDAR, the renewable energy support system as soon as possible, and start using EU funds as soon as possible, because there is no EU funding for nuclear energy, in fact, even the EIB credit mentioned by Mr András Aradszki cannot be obtained as a comparison, and there is no EBRD credit, so the banks of the European Union do not finance nuclear investment, so the Russian credit agreement is understandable in this sense. But in order for this fiasco, which means the return of the matter, to be compensated at a national level, Hungary must in any case build up significant renewable power plant capacities, using EU support, and the best comparable area on this scale is the mining of earth's heat, mining from a deep depth, i.e. more than 2500 metres, for the purpose of mining earth's heat, electricity generation, which will allow us to drive our cars, the construction of a storage plant, with which the electricity produced at night by the continuously operating geothermal power plant and the electricity generated by Paks nuclear five blocks at night, in some way, with some loss, according to current professional experience, is about 20-25 percent lost, but it can be stored, and then it can really be a working energy mix against a unilateral nuclear dependency. And to the desired aspect of Hungary's energy independence, let's say, in the perspective of a lifetime, at least we can see that these developments going beyond nuclear energy and alternative power plant developments contribute to that. And while you said that building renovation does not belong to energy, because low electricity is used for heating, overall, what we use for upgrading is not only building insulation, but also the modernisation of equipment, because if a building, including lighting equipment, is also worth renovating, durable electrical items, it can result in a relatively more favourable use of electricity. For this part of the energy programme, I wish the Fidesz Members good luck. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2014-06-11-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's any other speakers. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, not in two minutes, because members of the government can speak in an unlimited timeframe. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-06-11-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was going to ask if I can say the closing word before the vote, or if I have to do it now. But then I will be able to say that before the vote on the amendments - if there is an amendment to it, but there is no, right.
u2014-06-11-201	Minister, there will be a second reading, but you can still say the closing word. It's up to you to decide when to do it.
u2014-06-11-202	Thank you very much, I'll tell you later. I would now respond to Mr Józsa's suggestion in two minutes, briefly.
u2014-06-11-203	You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-11-204	It is also just one aspect of it, because basically I think that it was certainly worth considering the context of the Hungarian energy policy, and obviously all the responsible representatives must think about it when it comes to energy issues. I did not want to respond to this right now, but to a statement that affected external relations and the foreign policy part of this treaty. Honourable Congressman, There is no need to look into a financial agreement, necessarily what you have said here, because that is not the case. This is a loan agreement between two states in essence. The Hungarian government has discussed this. I also added in parentheses that this was not a simple negotiation, if I remember correctly, we discussed it from September to December, we thought that we would end this at the end of last year, we could not do that, but we could only accept the financial agreement at the end of February. I also believe that we have negotiated a good financial agreement. Hungary would not be able to obtain credit under such conditions today. We have the opportunity to emphasize once again that we will be wiped out at any time. The interest rate level is 3.95 per cent, and now think back to the fact that the latest Eurobond issuance was at 5.5 per cent, so we were able to source it at a much cheaper rate than that. By the way, I am very confident that, in the course of construction and investment, it will not be necessary to call off the total amount of the loan. I think it is wrong to look into this now at some unwarranted Russian friendship of the Hungarian government. I would point out that the Prime Minister's statement on membership of the European Union on the night after the elections was clear and clear. [[19.00]] As it was clear that Hungary had made a resolution on the recent events in Ukraine. So I think that the points you raised were unjustified. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-11-205	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, Member of the LMP Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-06-11-206	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Your words inspired me to think again. [[Mihály Varga: I'm glad to inspire you.]] Yes, thank you for your inspiration and your activity as a muse, because I once again thought that you would tell me that this is a good loan, that we should believe that you were born in good circumstances. But I still want to talk about whether this loan is necessary, so it will really be a necessary development to help the economy, whether we really need to borrow it now. But if you don't want to talk about it because you say, with a majority principle, that yes, there is a need for credit, then I'm still wondering if all the other risks, liability insurance costs, ancillary costs, didn't count construction costs, everything was included. I still think that more efficient use of renewable energy sources around the world, savings and efficiency are in focus, and I see that Hungary, my beloved country, is completely opposed to this, and is still in a completely opposite direction, with high capacity, low probability, but extremely risky, in the long term, trying to invest in such a huge investment, which consumes at least 12 percent of GDP, a non-existent resource, an unproduced resource, which is indeed a long-term risk for future generations. The question of Hungary's commitment to renewable energy by 2020 could also affect the Minister of National Economy. If we invest this huge resource now, will we have the other source to fulfill our commitments? So will we be able to fulfil our international obligations to ensure that the share of renewable energy use is as much as we have undertaken? If so, how do you think we can do that? So there are very, very many questions, and we always go back to the same place as to whether we need this loan, whether we need this investment. [[Mihály Varga: Yes.]] We don't think so. [[Mihály Varga: We think so.]]
u2014-06-11-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Minister Mihály Varga indicated that he wished to respond at the end of the second reading debate. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Further amendments may be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. To speak after today's agenda, MEP Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group said: " Why are the background settlements in Balaton stepchildren? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-11-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, With the last weekend of Pentecost, the summer season really started at Lake Balaton, and all the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton were waiting for this, obviously the municipalities and local entrepreneurs, because a significant part of the revenue is generated in these few months, and this is when they have to prepare for the more needy winter months, when, in the absence of tourism, there is no revenue for workers in this sector. Luckily, settlements with their own shores and shores in Balaton, and the difference between settlements with and without shores in Lake Balaton, are becoming more visible, and the scissors are opening up more and more. After all, people are obviously looking for the settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, spending their money there, going there to bathe, beach and other services. In addition, there is a clear advantage for cities easily accessible by the motorway and the main roads on the shore of Lake Balaton, which are located along the motorway M7 or the main road 71, since most of the tourist traffic comes mainly from Budapest and larger cities, and easy access is a great advantage. But what about the background settlements that are often only a few kilometers away, up to four or less kilometers away from the lake, but fall away from tourism revenues? Many obstacles make it difficult or impossible for them to benefit from either these development resources or tourism revenues. People living in this settlement are also having a hard time living their daily lives, because the development is delayed, they find it more difficult to work, and bad traffic is also surprisingly affecting them: although their settlement is only a few kilometers away from this frequented tourist center, they are still in a much more disadvantaged position. There are two settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton, at least if you look at the eastern basin of Lake Balaton: Siófok and Balatonfüred, which have far more development and tender resources than any surrounding settlement or even the surrounding settlements. Of course, in addition to the need for improvements in these two settlements, these two cities too, it has become very striking, and it is also indicative for the people living there that development resources flow almost exclusively to these two settlements. As I was also the mayor of the town of Balatonfüred in the constituency of Balatonfüred, the previous individual parliamentary representative of the constituency was also the mayor of Balatonfüred, and this also made it clear that some of the other thirty-one settlements of Balatonfüred suffer from the disadvantage of their constituency. Now it is necessary to pay attention to these smaller settlements and background settlements, as there are equal Hungarian people and voters living there, who also gave their individual representative a mandate, but still have a disadvantage in everyday life. We cannot call the need for background settlements excessive, because they do not want resources for luxury hotels, but for basic needs such as road development, so that they can build a few kilometers of roads, or that they can be involved in some way in the Balaton Beach blood circulation, either by bicycle routes or by improving public transport, so that they can come up from the shore of Lake Balaton and spend their money, whether they can use accommodation in these often more relaxed and relaxing towns or drink a glass of Balaton wine. Thus, the lives of the inhabitants of these settlements are also affected by the catastrophic state of public transport, many of them are affected by the disappearance of the railway wing lines, and although these settlements are located in a more developed region of the country, it is often as if we were walking in the more remote regions of Eastern Hungary or the South Great Plain, we encounter such conditions. Public transport is one of the basic conditions for living, one of the most important means of going to work in these regions, and yet no decision is taken to facilitate the situation of those living there. Making settlements more integrated into the Balaton blood circulation, providing new investments for them or providing additional resources would put jobs in place, make life easier for people living in the settlement. We see that there are very many problems in this area. I would like to ask the government to pay more attention to these settlements, and to begin to compensate for the ever-increasing difference between the larger settlements on the shore of Lake Balaton and smaller background settlements, and to ensure a more even distribution of the funding for the whole region in the future. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-11-209	Thank you, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that next week's Parliament meeting will be set at the next meeting of the House Committee. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 7:08 p.m.]]
