u2014-06-19-0	Dear Parliament, The first session of the Parliament's extraordinary summer session is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and József Attila Móring will be attending the meeting to help me. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi, Member of Parliament, informed me that the conflict of interest identified at the time of the mandate certificate had been terminated on 10 June. I declare that you will be able to exercise your representatives' rights from this deadline, and you will be entitled to a fee. The National Assembly can decide on its membership of the Committee today. Dear House, On June 19, 1991, the last Soviet soldier left Hungary. On the same day, the Parliament passed the law on the importance of regaining the country's freedom and on the day of Hungarian freedom, which we remember today. Hungary's sovereignty and the freedom of Hungarians are set out in Annex XX. For almost fifty years, he was reduced and restricted by foreign military occupation. On March 19, 1944, Nazi Germany and, from 1945, the Communist Soviet Union invaded Hungary militaryly. The military presence of this latter power ceased more than a year after the first free elections in Hungary. The centuries-old desire of Hungarian generations could have been fulfilled by 23 years ago: the foreign military force that repressed Hungarian freedom has left the country. It was realized that many people were willing to sacrifice their lives. The poet Jenő Heltai says: " It is not a gift. They don't give this for free, / Where there's no sacrifice, there's no freedom. / It is only where they can die and live for it, understanding its word. " We Hungarians today, dare to live for our struggled freedom, thus giving satisfaction to those who come before us, and hope and chance to the next. Protect the XXI. Between the new challenges and dangers of the century. May God grant that we and our offspring no longer have to die for this freedom, but to live steadfastly and wisely for it and for it. [[Ancient Novak: Remove the Soviet Memorial of Liberty Square!]] Dear Parliament, I declare that on behalf of the Government and the Fidesz fraction, Mr.Antal Rogán Group leader of the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. On 19 June 2014, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting. They have indicated in an annex to their letters all the proposals which they are seeking to discuss. You can find these on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is responsible for the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 38. In accordance with the provisions of Section 2 of the Act on the Autumn Session, you will also be able to get to know it on the website. Dear House, President János Áder sent the Parliament his transcripts of the appointment of State Secretarys. I would like to ask Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck and Mr. József Attila Móring to publish the transcripts of the President of the Republic.
u2014-06-19-1	" To Mr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. Pursuant to Article 2 of the Act, Miklós Zsolt Kis, Dr. Zoltán Kovács, László L. Simon, László Németh, Árpád János Potápi, Dr. Balázs Sonkodi, Zsigmondné dr. Zsigmondné as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 15 June 2014; Mr Károly Kontrat, Tibor Pogácsás, László Tasnádi, State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior with effect from 15 June 2014; Mr Károly Czibere, Dr. Judit Bertalan, Dr. Péter Hoppál, Dr. Bencé Rétvári, Dr. István Simicskó, Miklós Soltész, Katalin Veresné Novák with effect from 15 June 2014; and Mr. Gábor Zombor as State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources with effect from 24 June 2014, Dr. Márton Örsöt Bitay, György Czerván, Dr. István Nagy, Zsolt V. Németh, Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture with effect from 15 June 2014; Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence with effect from 15 June 2014; Dr. Barna Berke, Dr. Gergely Sándor Patyi with effect from 16 June 2014 and Mr. Répássy Róbert as State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 15 June 2014; Mr Monika Balatoni, Enikő Győri, dr. István Mikola, dr. László Szabó, Péter Szijjártó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade with effect from 15 June 2014; Bánai Péter Benőt, Dr. Sándor Czomba, Gábor Orbán, Dr. Balázs Rákossy, András Tállai with effect from 15 June 2014 and Béla Glattfelder as State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy with effect from 2 July 2014; Dr. Andras Aradszki, Dr. János Fónagy, Sára Hegmanné Nemes, Zsolt Szabó with effect from 15 June 2014 and László Tasó as State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development with effect from 1 July 2014. Budapest, 11 June 2014 Greetings: János Áder "
u2014-06-19-2	" To Mr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Law 215 Pursuant to paragraph 2 of the Section, Dr. Marcell Biró of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Dr. Gábor Czepek of the Ministry of National Development, Dr. Zoltán Molnár of Justice, Dr. Attila István Simon was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Árpád Vidoven of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 15 June 2014. Budapest, 11 June 2014 Greetings: János Áder "
u2014-06-19-3	Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the State Secretarys effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear House, I declare that, in the light of Mr. Tibor Pogácsás's term of office as Secretary of State, he resigned as notary on 18 June. I would like to thank the notary for his work, on behalf of Parliament and myself, for his new assignment, and I wish him every success. I would like to inform you that the KDNP Group has elected Mr László Szászfalvi as Deputy Group Leader. I wish him good luck in his work, too. Dear House, It is now time for the speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda today, András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, asked: " How long is the government stalling? " The title is given below. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-4	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, On Monday, the Curia's Civilian Law Unit decision of 2/2014 was made. In this context, a number of things have become clear about the currency credit crisis that has been going on for the past 12 years. In the first instance, it should be said that exchange rate risk in a consumer credit agreement should not be required. And it is important to point out one more circumstance that the Curia has not examined: these foreign exchange credit contracts can not only be concluded on a civil basis, there is no doubt that such transactions did not interfere with the credit institution law in force at the time 78. § (1) which otherwise required banks to examine the burden-bearing capacity of debtors. Not only banks, the governments of the last ten years, have something to account for. This whole construction, this defective product, has crippled two million people, destroyed thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, frozen the credit market and pushed the Hungarian national economy to zero growth careers. [[9.50]] The whole story started with a government decree, 88/2001. a government decree signed by Viktor Orbán. Later, the Medgyessy and the first Gyurcsány governments established the economic policy of over-use, which could only be financed from foreign sources, and, with the greatest cynicism possible, shifted the exchange rate risk in the source to the least burdensome population. Their economic policy gave rise to a false impression of growth, while the growth was only driven by consumption. After that, the Bajnai government, which serves foreign capital normally, tried to sweep the problem under the rug with a voluntary banking code of conduct. They are also responsible for central bank management, since around 2006-2007 the Swiss central bank warned the countries of Central and Eastern Europe about the risks inherent in the transactions. After that, the Poles went to the Swiss central bank, entered into a specialised transaction and led out this defective product. The Czechs and the Croatians did the same. The Járai Zsigmond central bank management and later Simor's central bank management ignored the warning of the Swiss bank. The Orbán government was rightly expected to provide a solution after May 2010. Three measures should be highlighted. One is the end-payment, which was not available to 77 percent of foreign exchange lenders. It didn't help those who fell deepest into this trap. The exchange rate barrier was not used by those who had been more than 90 days behind, until November 2013, so the government did not help debtors in a really critical situation for three and a half years. Finally, the asset manager was an assetless asset manager without any material resources. In the meantime, the Possibly Other Politics has also made five proposals, which would have helped this situation in substance, not only in the case of credit victims, but also in the Hungarian national economy. In the autumn of 2011, we presented our proposal for a national real estate fund, which would have used the bank tax to address this crisis and could have laid the basis for a community rental, a Community rental development programme. We also suggested that the Hungarian National Bank should immediately open negotiations with the Swiss Central Bank and the European Central Bank in order to ensure the source of the commercial banking system. In 2013 and at the beginning of this year, my fellow Members, Katalin Ertsey and Gábor Vágó, presented proposals to stop implementing anyone's house by circumventing the judicial path. Fidesz rejected it, sided with the banks. We also proposed that the Civil Code prohibit such transactions, and we also suggested that banks should not transfer their claims arising from foreign exchange credit to firms with questionable backgrounds. These proposals were last swept off the table by Fidesz two weeks ago, and he did not want to help people because he was afraid of the Bank Alliance. Finally, in the hours following the decision, we presented this week a bill which would oblige banks to repay profits from an unfair exchange rate gap. There's no time, no time to wait, the government has to act. Consider our proposals again. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-5	Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2014-06-19-6	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His speech before the agenda is entitled " How Long Will the Government Hold? " I believe that in 2010, after the change of government, the Fidesz-KDNP government did not delay anything, did not wait a minute to start solving the huge social problem of foreign exchange lenders. However, it is important to know that the first Orbán government has nothing to do with the development of the situation, as the problem of foreign exchange lenders actually started from 2005 and started from 2005, so I do not understand how the 2001 Government Decree and the responsibility of Viktor Orbán were brought here. The greater the responsibility of the Fidesz government is that in 2010 it stopped further mortgage lending in foreign currency and started to solve this very big problem internationally, as we agree that this has caused and is causing problems for hundreds of thousands of families and millions of people in everyday life. We also disagree that what the Fidesz government has done - three significant measures - with the design of end-payments, exchange rate barriers and asset management systems - has not been an effective problem, as this has been a definitive solution for nearly half of those involved. It is true that hundreds of thousands of people are still waiting for a solution. We believe that the decision of the Curia has removed the legal obstacles that the government and the Parliament will find a definitive, comprehensive and responsible solution that will enable this society to be permanently dealt with, foreign exchange loans can be removed from the Hungarian market. However, before we do this, I think that first we need to think about a fair solution, a just solution that society can accept. For example, those who are in debt in forints can't do any worse than those who used the currency loan. This solution must be both legally and economically final and incontrovertible, and there is no way to choose a solution that may represent a series of new lawsuits for the parties concerned, which is not a solution, but a lengthy, costly legal procedure. We need to find a definitive solution in economic and financial terms, because Hungary's financial security cannot be threatened by the solution, it cannot be that the future bill that the government will present to Parliament in the autumn, which will not solve the problem, but trigger a series of problems. Indeed, the Curia's decision drew attention to three fundamental problems. Here it is expected that compensation will be paid to those affected by the banks that have committed lawlessness. It is clear that the government does not want to resolve this either by bringing legal litigation to those involved, but the law itself will allow these compensations to be made available to those concerned. As far as the LMP's proposals are concerned, we cannot support one which seeks to encourage debtors to sue. We believe that the solution that stands before the government is the thorough and responsible creation of the bill and its dissemination to Parliament. This bill will solve the problem for more than a decade, and this bill must be delivered to the satisfaction of people in distress and its implementation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what you're gonna want. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-7	Next, Jobbik's representative, Tamás Sneider, is "The Time of Experiments Is Over. " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-8	Mr President, Dear House, Why did I give this title to the speech before today's agenda? Because, going back a bit in time, in October 2010, we discussed the possibility of introducing a family tax reduction. At that time, Jobbik pointed out in the debate that only about 8 percent of families with three children would be able to make full use of the family tax relief. We have drawn attention to the fact that this will actually be a serious opportunity for the most efficient, for middle-class, middle-class or low-income people, this form of support will mean little. [[10.00]] It was already proposed that families with two children should have a much higher rate of tax relief, which you did not accept at the time, and since then this family tax allowance will still amount to HUF 20,000 for two children; whereas for three children it is already HUF 100,000. We also suggested introducing the scheme for the family tax relief supplement, precisely so that this mistake, which you made at the time, could be corrected. None of our requests were accepted then. Well, this mistake was also acknowledged by Minister Zoltán Balog recently at the ministerial hearing. I quote: " We started with an income bar in the family tax relief that was really not available in the lower incomes. " In our opinion, it was irresponsible thinking, because there is no time for experimentation in the current demographic context. It took them three years to find out about this mistake, and thank God, last January, there was a discount on contributions. The situation has improved, but it is far from sufficient. Well, Jobbik's position is that families with two children need much more support, a family tax relief supplement. Honourable Members, Families are counting every day in Hungary at the moment. It is clear that in recent years there has been a huge rate of poverty in families with children. A number of statistics have already shown this. The 2013 life minimum calculation of KSH described that HUF 87 500 is the minimum living in Hungary today, while the net of a minimum wage is HUF 64 200. That is, a person living on a minimum wage is missing 23 300 forints to reach the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, Think of young families, young people who make such a living, and unfortunately there are hundreds of thousands of them, almost one million in Hungary, wondering how they will have children. How do they undertake the first or second child? Obviously, it doesn't, because it's impossible to take. So, as I said, the current children are worth HUF 20,000 for two children, and we would like this to be raised by the current government to a much higher amount, because that was our initiative four years ago. And let's take a look at one or two more data: 88,700 births dropped in 2013. According to the 2011 census, the number of families with one child decreased by 45 thousand compared to the 2001 figures, by 130 thousand the number of families with two children and by 8 thousand the number of families with three or more children. What's this about? Over the last ten years, the number of families with two children has fallen dramatically. That is precisely why we say that it is necessary to give greater support to the two children in order to enable the third or fourth child to take on. Minister Zoltán Balog also said at the hearing that mental change is needed to shape demographic processes. You're probably right about that, but without life-security, I'm sure there won't be any mental change. At the moment, as we can see, population loss has not been stopped, but migration has been increased to a huge extent. As you can see, the minimum wage is higher than the minimum wage. Hundreds of thousands of people are trapped in a foreign exchange trap, there are unfortunately no real production jobs in the country, and indeed the issue of security is very questionable in the countryside, because in many villages it is almost impossible to go out into the street during the day, let alone at night. That's all, but it's not life safety. Well, that's why we're saying that we should stop counting and experimenting and remove the obstacles to having children. That is why I ask the government not to delay increasing support for families with two children. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-9	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-19-10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is clear that, contrary to Mr President's statements, one of the most favoured groups in the government policy of the last four years was the families, the families. While income and living standards have increased by 7.3 percent for average workers, this is much higher for family members, with 12.8 percent. I think it is clear to everyone, because we can see that, after all, the budgets of the last few years show that it is 540 billion HUF that we left with family members in 2011-2012-2013. After all, we said that those who take on work and who have children at the same time are the best interests of the nation in the short and long term. Therefore, precisely the obstacles, the difficulties they have faced with having children in which they were part of the state, to which the State was involved, because in many cases childbearing also meant taking on poverty, well, these obstacles must be removed, these disadvantages must be eliminated. Childbearing cannot in any way be a disadvantage to anyone when it comes to public services. Therefore, it is important to improve and renovate nursery and nursery spaces, but this has affected 6,000 seats. Therefore, it is important not only in tax policy, but also in other areas, for example in the labour law rules, in the job protection action plan, that a lot of mothers can now go back to work under preferential conditions, precisely to make it more attractive for them to go back to work and be more attractive for the employer if they want to go back to work after, say, the age of the child. But I could also say the other employment guarantee that made it clear that if someone wants to go back to work with only four hours, six hours, in addition to the increased education of the young child, they can now do so under the labour law guarantee. I would therefore like to give a few examples here, Mr President, that, contrary to your claims, there was a package of measures for all sectors of government, covering all areas of the government, and the result has been. The fertility rate in this age group, even slightly, has improved in the last year. So the number of children per mother of childbearing age has improved in recent years, although we are still far from the goal we originally set. One part of this was the family-type tax benefit, which we have introduced gradually, because first it was only possible to use it for personal income tax, but then, when we saw that it was important for the expansion of the lower middle class to extend this benefit to those who want to get in from the bottom, not just to personal income tax. It is also clear that we are trying to introduce more and more widespread benefits. You can see and calculate that in the case of a family with average earnings or a little above average earning, if there are three children, then essentially no taxes or contributions are paid, the net and gross wages coincide. I think that a greater advantage than the fact that the payment paper has the same value for everyone in the net line and in the gross line, so the system of public burden-sharing, let's say, a family with a average income of three children, contributes to raising children and spending those money not on their own consumption, but on someone else, on their own child, well, if we have created this system, a more favourable tax and contribution system, including, of course, the benefits of family mothers in the job protection action plan, the benefits of their contributions can not be set up very well. As far as long-term family planning is concerned, obviously no one has a family under one or two or three years of tax laws. First of all, he's a family based on values. But the most important thing on the part of the state is to ensure stability, security; to let someone see that the guarantees that a Fidesz-KDNP government now gives us are not abolished by a next government, as it was in 2002 when the socialist took over. Therefore, it is important that we now have a two-thirds, fundamental law on the system of family allowances that family members can receive. So they can plan in the long term, because as long as Fidesz-KDNP has at least one third in this Parliament, they cannot be abolished. Until then, these various benefits, this support system, will remain for everyone. So it was a family policy based on values laid down in the Fundamental Law that helped with this higher fertility rate, a stability-bearing fundamental law and the widest benefit that has ever been appropriate for families in Europe and since the change of regime. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-11	On behalf of Mr József Tóbias, on behalf of the MSZP, he also applied for a speech before the agenda: "Do our nation's large entrepreneurs take on more responsibility? " with the title " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-12	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, " It is our understanding that those who have extra high income must take on more of the public burden. It's not coercion. It's justice. " The statements made by the Prime Minister in recent weeks, both sentences have been made in connection with the advertising tax, that is to say that advertising tax must be introduced not because of budgetary constraints, not because of economic considerations, but because of justice alone. [[10.10]] This truth is false after the submission and adoption of a law that punishes one of the commercial televisions and puts the other in an exceptional position. Well, if we're talking about the truth, we need to ask you a very simple question: is it fair that the owners of companies that sell in public procurements only pay pennies in the common register of which they grab the money with two handfuls. We don't think that's fair, because if you make a living together, let's make a decent profit. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in Hungary, companies whose majority of their turnover comes from taxpayers' money are supported by us Hungarians. If these companies achieve extra profit, they contacted us Hungarians. We all know that these companies, which have recently won almost every public procurement - whether it is a state, be it a municipal investment - are the ones who are only participating in an apparent competition, but we all know who it is. Ladies and gentlemen, Ask yourself who believes in Hungary today that companies such as Közép, Lajos Simicska and Lőrinc Mészáros will win because of better work or lower prices and not because of government relations. Who believes that their efficiency allows them to gain up to 10-20 percent profit from their owners and not because of their extra-profit prices? In addition, the owners of these companies, which are increasing from municipal orders, pay only the standard rate after the extra profit, just like the workers who earn between HUF 60 and 70 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that it is fair and fair that the owners of these companies and companies producing extra profit for fattening from public money take a greater share of the public burden. It is a roaring injustice that while private assets and corporate empires are being built from our tax forints, while the government is describing in its convergence programme that the following year intends to save some HUF 600 billion on social benefits, i.e. in Hungarian: pensioners, children, parents, mothers, sick, fallen people. A man who makes a living together should have a decent profit. The truth demands that all companies that gain unfair profits from community funds pay 75% tax on their dividends. Believe me, my fellow Members, there is something to it, because only in recent weeks the Simicska Empire has taken out more than HUF 22 billion in dividends last year. But MET Zrt., which belongs to the interests of István Garancsi, is famous in the offshore gas business. It also produces over 54 billion dividends for its owners behind offshore companies. In a year and a half, Lőrinc Mészáros became a dividend of HUF 2 billion. If we just count, that is 78 billion forints of dividends, honourable Members. One might say that each hundred million-dollar dividend is evidence of how expensive these companies were. Some of them got 20 percent extra profit. The message of every billionaire's profit: that's what we made on you, Hungarians. Both social justice and economic rationality dictate that if, over the past four years, you have failed to spread Community funds among the economic operators of our society, so that there are companies in each region, there are groups of companies that raise the labour market in that region, then now is the moment when, with this decision, you can decide by law where the truth is. Who do you support? Do you support having a budget line in Hungary where they want to use not only EU funds to eradicate child hunger, but also from domestic sources, or decide whether they only think about multinationals, but not their own? Thank you for your attention.
u2014-06-19-13	Once again, Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-19-14	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As if the world had turned upside down, I have a feeling that, at the time of your administration, they were indeed engaged in a completely different economic policy and, let's face it, tax policy, but also a completely different system of support. Moreover, the results of public procurement are quite different from those of the Fidesz-KDNP government. Other economic policies were pursued because the European Union expects only foreign companies to gain large investments, motorway constructions and the construction of public institutions in Hungary. Other economic policies were pursued because foreign-owned energy suppliers were able to increase the prices of gas, electricity and services at their convenience. And they had a different system of support, because, at your time, multinational companies, large agricultural companies, former actors, were the first to receive the aid. And they also transferred the public service companies into foreign property to benefit them with regulations that produced extra profit. And other tax policies have also been pursued, since you have just benefited multinational companies, have not reduced personal income tax, have not reduced labour costs. Let's see what policy the Fidesz government has on you. First of all, I did not hear any foreigner, only Hungarian names. These Hungarian companies, these Hungarian people, who are shown to be negative, employ Hungarian people and give jobs to Hungarian people. The government is also pursuing a different policy in the field of energy policy, as you do not like the reduction of the rent, but you can see that it is possible to create in Hungary that the price of gas is not increasing, but is decreasing, that the price of electricity is not increasing, but is decreasing, and the price of district heating is not increasing, but is decreasing, and the charges for other services are also favourable to the population, not to the multinational company providing the service. But perhaps what is most outstanding and best characterised by the tax policy of the current government is the introduction of bank tax and sectoral tax. This reduces taxes on foreign-owned, extra-profit-producing, pick-up companies, financial companies and significantly increases the burden on the budget. But you have also developed a completely different system of support for EU funds, as you created the condition that only 16 percent of EU funds were created and developed by businesses in the period 2007-2013. At the same time, the Fidesz government stated that between 2014 and 2020, 60 percent of EU funds should serve the support system for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, job creation, strengthening jobs, development and progress. I think you forget to say that during the last four years of the government's activity in Hungary, the rate of tax burden within GDP has decreased by 2 percent, from 41 percent to 39 percent; and that the Hungarian government supports the Hungarian small business sector that employs approximately two thirds of the Hungarian workforce. I believe that the government is on the right track, and that has been confirmed by the people, the voters, in the elections this year. We believe that the Hungarian economy will be strengthened if tax policy has been proven in recent years, and EU subsidies will also be transformed as they have said, because it will benefit the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-15	On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann asked for the floor: "New perspectives for teachers. " Here you go, Congresswoman. [[10.20]]
u2014-06-19-16	Dear Parliament, A good twenty-five years ago, when the breeze of freedom touched Hungary, the most diverse civil society organisations, including teachers, were formed. A total of about 160. Initially, they quickly and very actively became advocates of both teaching and teaching society, temporarily overshadowing some of the organizations that the party state had previously allowed or tolerated. As time progressed, however, many of them faded or ceased to work actively for public affairs, while the remaining few of them only dealt with isolated sections of public education or were heavily politicised. In the latter, one of the leading trade unions, which, although represented and represented only a strong minority of the teaching society today, has heard his voice " in the name of teachers," both louder and without channeling the opinion of the majority into his resolutions. Just like some of the so-called professional organizations. This imbalance has increased enormously during the government cycle that began in 2010. At the same time, the education and public education government has consistently sought to take into account the opinion of the whole pedagogical society, i.e. the whole profession, for its actions. This is why it has become necessary to create an organisation that involves a large majority to become a worthy partner. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] the relevant public education managers in the decision-making process. This recognition was born last summer by law in the National Teacher's Faculty. At the same time, even by the name of the Chamber of Pedagogists, the organisation of the faculty was announced in the educational programme of the Christian Democratic People's Party School, Morals, Knowledge, adopted in 2009. The National Pedagogical Faculty is therefore not the result of a sudden political idea, but of four years of preparatory work, which was crowned with success last Saturday, 14 June. As a result of further extensive preparatory and organizational work, the first assembly of delegates elected as a result of a secret vote by electronic means met. As we know, all teachers working in public education institutions are automatically members of the National Faculty of Education by virtue of the law. It is therefore foolish to proclaim boycotts against him, or to claim that it is compulsory, therefore humiliating, bound up, and so forth. Like citizens' s suffrage, automatic membership gives all teachers the opportunity to actively participate in the opinion, preparation of decisions and proposals on professional matters for the benefit of the public. But he doesn't force anyone to do anything. Thus, the protests in opposition statements, with agitprop tone, show at least ignorance. For the first elections, more than 15,000 teachers registered themselves. This is not a small rate, given the campaign-like counterpropaganda and the general slowness of reaction time. There will be and there will be many more. The 125 delegates left the scene knowing that there was an educational history for the educator society. The perspectives of the completion of their profession, their professional and public role have been opened to them. The success was not exhausted in enthusiasm, but with clever suggestions they had already begun to complete the faculty. From here, too, I congratulate the democratic, secretly elected President Péter Horváth, who is a high-ranking director of one of the leading high schools in Győr. We wish both him and the other elected officials to work tirelessly on the greater appreciation of the teaching profession, as this is one of the essential prerequisites for making education more effective and for Hungary's rise. Thank you for the new deputy in charge of public education Secretary of State that he was among the first to welcome the Faculty of Pedagogism, thus ensuring the continuation of the case. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-17	I give the floor to Secretary Judit Czunyiné Bertalan.
u2014-06-19-18	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The establishment and establishment of the National Pedagogist Faculty is indeed a great step forward in the life of the Hungarian pedagogical society, and it really carries all the elements of positive vision for the future that it referred to in its pre- Agenda contribution. This topic is particularly important today when, thanks to opposition hooting propaganda, this Faculty of Pedagogism had to be created at a moment and in such a way that it received only an attack and opened up an attack platform for the pedagogical society, who, within the framework of this Faculty of Pedagogism, will, in the future, be given the opportunity, within the framework of a substantive professional work, professional proposal and the law, to genuinely fill the work of managing public education with professional content. The legitimacy of the faculty is wide-ranging, unlike any contrary propaganda, as it is a member of all state-owned public education institutions. The election and the election of delegates and officials took place in a transparent manner, as teachers could do this voluntarily by electronic voting. Following the electronic registration, the application of the volunteer candidates, the candidature took place, among them could and had to elect the delegates of the inaugural assembly as well as the officials. For information only, no appeal has been received for the electoral process, so the participants considered this procedure to be absolutely adequate and good in an electronic and otherwise transparent manner. After the establishment of the faculty, he organizes his professional departments, regional and county bodies, and through them he will be able, through supporting proposals and professional arguments, to make the opinion, proposal, professional position of all teachers in Hungary for amendments to the Public Education Act or for professional proposals that must be completed and made in accordance with the content framework of the Public Education Act. Such widely represented comments, the possibility of proposing the Hungarian pedagogical society had not been able to do so before. And, as my fellow Member has said, the presence of such professional chambers and professional bodies is not unconventional. Indeed, it is also true that over the past decades, trade unions have seemed to have been a little out of shape, and, in the course of labour law enforcement, they have tried to express their views in a professional way, a little bit of abuse of their capacity to represent their interests. However, this opinion did not reflect the professional opinion of the whole educator society, its position on the changes affecting the current public education system or their professional content. We expect the opinion of the faculty and its cooperation in matters of public education. This deficiency organisation will be able to represent the professional interests of Hungarian teachers and their intentions to improve Hungarian public education and to renew the content of Hungarian public education, providing professional proposals for the management of public education and the role of teachers on important issues. We need genuine and professionally-based meaningful cooperation, and on behalf of the State Secretariat, I have indeed entered into an original and genuine partnership at the inaugural meeting of the National Pedagogist Faculty. I would also like to congratulate the elected officials from this place, wish them good work, and look forward to good and trust-based cooperation with the Hungarian National Teacher Faculty. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-19	We now have a speech before today's final agenda on the part of Mr Antal Rogán: "Our common affairs. " [[10.30]]
u2014-06-19-20	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of this week, the Curia decided on the issue of foreign exchange lenders, and I think that this decision is a turning point, since the Supreme Court stated in its legal unit decision for the first time in Hungary that banks acted unfairly against hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange lenders. This has never been done before. In the past, we have heard for years that while foreign exchange lenders are victims of foreign exchange credit, banks have acted in accordance with the contract, banks have behaved fairly, the only question is how the burden of otherwise unforeseen risks should be shared between foreign exchange lenders and banks. This is why the Curia's decision, which made it clear to all of us that the banks had deliberately resorted to unfair procedures against hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials. The position of the Fidesz parliamentary group in this area is very clear. To whom they acted unfairly, to whom they took money unfairly, all that was taken from him unfairly comes back. Ladies and gentlemen, Accordingly, we are working on a law which must be before the Parliament at the latest in autumn. But before we get to this point, we have to ask why if banks have acted unfairly against hundreds of thousands of customers, the governments who did this at the time did not notice this. Until autumn 2010, there was only an opportunity in Hungary for banks to unilaterally amend contracts or apply a price gap. You may remember that it was one of the first laws of the autumn session in autumn 2010, which I and my colleague Lajos Kósa submitted together. In this law, at the initiative of the Fidesz parliamentary group, we prohibited the use of the exchange rate gap, forbade banks to make a profit on customers even if they were selling currency and buying currency, while there was no such thing in any way, and we also prohibited the unlimited possibility of unilateral amendment of the contract, subject to strict conditions which, of course, they could not live with in the majority of cases. However, before autumn 2010, it was possible for the banks to do so for years, honourable Members. The big question is why left-wing Members who are sitting in this Chamber today, whether they are fellow Members of Bajnai Gordon, or fellow Members of Ferenc Gyurcsány, or the Socialist Group, did not notice or refuse to notice until the autumn of 2010, that there is indeed an unfair procedure open here, which, by the way, we closed as the first measure of the new government cycle. We had to wait for years for the Curia to determine this, although in the autumn of 2010, Parliament, in essence, stated that it had changed the practice by submitting a law with my fellow Member, Lajos Kósa. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Let us recall that in 2009 the then MSZP-SZDSZ government on the issue of foreign exchange lenders used to adopt a code of conduct for banks, no binding rules. There was no such thing as a ban on unilateral amendment to the contract, and even the possibility of extending it, if possible, was not raised by any authority against the banks. The period in Hungary started in autumn 2010 when Parliament and the government were first on the side of foreign exchange lenders. We've done this in several steps in a row. For the first time in the autumn of 2010, the possibility of unilateral amendment of the contract and the use of the exchange rate gap were banned. In 2011, we made use of the possibility of final repayment. Let us not forget that the vast majority of left-wing Members in this Parliament did not vote in favour of that law. After that, ladies and gentlemen, we have introduced the exchange rate barrier and helped those around 25 thousand families who have not been able to pay their repayments, and now the moment has come, after the Curia has created unity in the legal situation, to decide and finally solve the problem that the problem of foreign exchange loans created during the MSZP-SZDSZ governments and left behind to us. Ladies and gentlemen, To do so, however, Parliament must make a decisive decision. You sided with the banks every time before 2010. All I would like to ask now is that, once the Fidesz parliamentary group has passed a law that provides justice to Parliament, for once, stand next to the clients instead of the banks. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-21	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to answer on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-19-22	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think that one of the most important, far-reaching tasks of the four years ahead of us and affecting one of the most troubled people, which we will now be able to do by law, according to the Curia's decision. Of course, the government is counting on the support of the faction, counting on the group's proposals, because we need to develop a legislative solution that is a comprehensive, responsible and definitive solution for foreign exchange lenders. We cannot put a half-solution before Parliament. It is not possible to come up with a solution that is unenforceable, it is not possible to find a solution that leaves out a single person in distress, it is not possible to come up with a bill and then a law that will not legally end the matter in the long term. And it is not possible to make a bill that does not close the issue of foreign exchange lenders financially, i.e. does not remove the possibility of foreign exchange credit and its institution from the Hungarian money market. So the task is very, very big and our responsibility, because we will have to put an end to the biggest social problem of the last decade. It is true that the responsibility of the government before us, the Socialist Government, on this issue, is inevitable. However, political responsibility has already been said by people in 2010: the solution to irresponsible lending to people, creating the idea that everything in the country is okay, that is a solution that people cannot accept in the long term. It is Fidesz's responsibility and responsibility that this huge problem, a social problem, and the problem of foreign exchange credentials that threatens the social crisis, will now be finally closed and resolved in the autumn. The Curia's decision is indeed historic, for it has finally stated that the banks are also largely responsible for this social problem. In principle, the Curia expressed its views on three issues: the unfairness of the different exchange rates used in the payment of foreign exchange loans and repayments, since there is no direct service to consumers here, so instead of replacing the sales and purchase rates, the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank should be used in the contracts, and this caused damage to foreign exchange lenders, which should be reimbursed to those involved. It also established liability for exchange rate risk in the event that the client was not properly informed and that the level of risk was not clear to the consumer. The Curia also called the possibility of a unilateral amendment of the contract unfair, so the solution will also have to mention in the bill that those who are affected by this - and almost all consumers and service users - who have been affected by this - by unilaterally raising the bank's interest rates - who have suffered damage in this case too - are entitled to claim compensation. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think that the government, together with the faction, will be able to present a solution to Parliament in the near future, during the autumn, with which we can finally say that we have closed the problem of foreign exchange lenders in Hungary and led the institution of foreign currency credit out of the Hungarian financial system. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[10.40]]
u2014-06-19-23	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sándor Szabó, MSZP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István, LMP; Vágó Sebestyén, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. Dear Parliament, By withdrawing the Government's earlier emergency motion, it initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the T/311 amendment of certain laws relating to educational subjects. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government proposes that amendments be submitted on 20 June at 14 a.m.; the consolidated debate, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote be held on 30 June. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if you'll accept T/311. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 123 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our adopted decision, amendments can be submitted on 20 June at 14:00, the draft bill will be consolidated, the summary amendment proposal will be decided and the final vote will take place on 30 June. Dear Parliament, As rapporteur, Mr Font Sándor initiated, by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures, that the Parliament would discuss in an exceptional procedure the T/357 on the amendment of certain land laws. Bill No. 1. On the basis of what was said today at the House Committee's meeting, the Member has clarified the deadline for submitting amendments. The Member therefore initiated the possibility of submitting the amendments by 2 p.m. tomorrow; the consolidated debate should take place on Monday 23 June; the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place at our meeting on 4 July. Dear Parliament, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, have to vote in favour in order to order an exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/357 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 124 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, it is possible to submit the amendments by 2 p.m. tomorrow. The consolidated debate on the bill will take place on Monday 23 June, and the final vote will take place at the meeting on 4 July. The Fidesz Group proposed that the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Act XXXIII of 1992 on the status of civil servants T/196 amending Act No. The general discussion of the legislative proposal No.3 should not take place until the end of the day at today's sitting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the T/56 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Kuwait on the visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic, service and special passports be published. The final vote on the legislative proposal No 1 should not take place at today's sitting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. I ask the faction leaders to ensure the necessary quorum. As far as I can tell, it's okay. Dear Parliament, We're about to discuss the immunity and the decision. The immunity committee is H/254. The Parliament shall not suspend the immunity of the Member of Parliament of Szabó Timea in the case concerned by the request of the Central District Court of Pesti. I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, who wishes to justify the committee's proposal orally in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Pest Central District Court 20.B10.248/2014.6. In his transcript No.3 he proposed the suspension of the immunity of the MP Szabó Timea on the basis of the complaint by Csaba Pétermann. According to the report, Szabó Timea published several reports in the national media at the end of August and early September 2013, and gave a briefing on matters related to the Pető Institute, the head of the financial institution. Among these, his statement in ATV on 4 September 2013 entitled Straight Speech is outstanding, in which he mentions the reporter by name, and in connection with his activities in Pető Institute, he has also made several false statements and expressions that could be used to undermine the indictor's honour. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 10 June 2014. As regards his immunity, Szabó Timea asked the committee and the Parliament to proceed according to the 24-year practice in private immunity cases. In the absence of powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act. The practice of maintaining immunity unbroken immunity in private cases aims to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth work of the Parliament and Members of Parliament. In view of this, the immunity committee proposes to Parliament, with 3 yeses and 2 no votes, not to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Szabó Timea in the case in question. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-25	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó is not in the Chamber, so she probably does not want to undertake a response. Dear Parliament, It's up to you to make a decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Parliamentary Member of Szabó Timea. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament does not suspend the immunity of Szabó Timea by 22 votes in favour, 152 against, without abstention. [[10.50]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/362. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In this he initiates the election of Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member of Parliament, to the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Zsuzsanna Szelényi as a member of the committee by 174 votes in favour, without vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. It's 10:50 now. We continue our work with interpellations. [[It's a lot of noise.]] Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats. During the interpellation, you must take your seats in the Chamber. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: "Is it true that a robber becomes the best pandur? " The title is given below. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-06-19-26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the Minister has passed away, and I wanted to arrange the interpellation for him. Robbery becomes the best pandur, says the saying, that is, people who have been through certain experiences and come out of it know the most about a situation. Minister, it is quite a strange entrance that a candidate for a minister, and the candidate for a minister responsible for national wealth policy, at his first Commission hearing, is forced to explain his relations with former lawyers and businessmen in relation to offshore relations. At the Minister's hearing, several people asked him about his previous involvement in companies with various offshore backgrounds in the Economic Committee and the Committee on Budgets. It is enough to refer to the EnterNet case, the Ramaris case or the press report on the Oxygen Wellness case. Minister, you rejected these rumours and stated that you are not an offshore knight, since Cyprus is not an offshore location. In fact, Minister went on and said: "... the government's intention is clear: offshore companies cannot obtain public money. " I mean: "... offshore background, I would stress, offshore background - that is, the Man Islands and Panamanian - a company with no real ownership, no nominal property, no ownership background, no public order, no public money. I also support this 100%, and the government has taken a clear position on this issue. " I agree with and agree with the above sentences said by the Minister. Companies with offshore backgrounds can't get public money, they can't get government orders. However, the practice of the Orbán government so far and your previous activities show otherwise. In the previous cycle, as a member of the Economic and IT Committee, you expressly supported the possibility for companies in the Cayman Islands, Singapore, Malta, Cyprus, Switzerland to do business and obtain state orders with settlement government bonds in Hungary. The Orbán government explicitly allowed public companies to deal with offshore companies, allowing them to obtain state orders and contracts through the MVM Partner, with a background in Belize, the Cayman Islands, but in fact István Garancsi, a personal acquaintance of Viktor Orbán, is also available through the MVM Partner. If the Minister is serious about what he said at his candidate for minister's hearing, then answer the questions: when will he submit to Parliament a bill prohibiting a public company from doing business with an offshore company, concluding a contract with such a company? As a practitioner of ownership rights over state assets, when do you instruct state companies to terminate their contracts with offshore companies? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-27	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-19-28	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Over the past four years, the government has achieved significant results in the creation of transparent, clear wealth management, new laws and laws in order in previous chaos. The government's measures have enabled increased protection of national assets, greater transparency in asset management and public procurement. A number of steps have been taken to ensure transparency and anti-corruption of the EU application system, and public and EU support for companies with questionable backgrounds will be almost impossible in the future. This is also prepared by the investigation launched in February, which aims to explore the potential offshore background of some 45 thousand private companies that successfully apply for EU aid between 2007 and 2013. Companies which have been or have been found to be companies established in offshore tax havens or have an interest in them shall not apply for the EU budget period 2014-2020. Before I answer your specific question, allow me to say a few words about the offshore concept that you have discussed. Offshore is not a legal term, but a term used in everyday language. The common language usually refers to those companies that do not pay a penny in the home countries for their incomes not coming from there. However, in general, any company which does not carry out economic activities in the country of registration is considered to be offshore and is therefore considered foreign on the basis of its business activity. However, the reason for setting up the offshore company in normal and legal cases is not by tax exemption through the rescue of assets, but, for example, the simpler, faster, cheaper administration. Therefore, there is a need to distinguish between the average offshore companies registered in different countries of the Union and those established in offshore tax havens. Tax havens are states or economically independent but politically dependent areas which provide tax legislation that is particularly favourable to the establishment of offshore companies and in many cases tax exemptions. A company with a real ownership background registered in a Member State of the European Union, such as Cyprus, is not a company established in offshore paradise, since EU legislation does not allow such exemption. Honourable Congressman, You are obviously aware that according to Article 39 of the Fundamental Law, payments from the central budget may only be made to an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activities for the use of the aid are transparent and transparent. The Public Finance Act also states that offshore companies cannot obtain public funds. Since 1 January 2012, the National Property Act provides, as far as possible, the most precise definition of transparent entities that can be distinguished from offshore enterprises. On this basis, we do not see the point and purpose of proposing a bill which prohibits a public company from doing business with a company with an unclear background or concluding a contract, since it is no longer possible. Based on all of this, I ask you to answer [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please consider and accept. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-29	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Now we know there's good offshore and bad offshore. It's the good offshore that's close to Fidesz, the bad that we don't know the background of. But here we do know offshore companies, I think about offshore companies that have come up in connection with the sale of cheap gas, MET Zrt. has such opaque offshore companies in their contractual relationship to this day, that we believe that such opaque structures cannot be behind the management of Hungarian assets or companies contracted with the Hungarian state. [[11.00]] I cannot accept the answer, and I would like to point out that if the government does not submit such a law, we, the MSZP fraction, will make such a proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-31	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the answer, and I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 94 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " How should the Paks Nuclear Power Plant be financed? " The title is given below. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2014-06-19-32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In February this year, in the last parliamentary term, I submitted to Parliament a proposal for a resolution, in which I proposed that the state set up a capital fund capable of channeling the population's savings of HUF 6-7 thousand billion currently in bank deposits and using this savings for some key investments in the national economy. This is, of course, voluntary on the part of the population, just as the State is currently competing for savings in bank deposits in the sovereign debt market. In my case, the state competes, offering conditions in return that some of the savings in bank deposits are transferred to sovereign debt, which is what we would like to do now on the Western sample. That's what our proposal for a resolution meant. For example, it would be possible to build on these savings, or at least make a significant contribution to the financing of the national own contribution, because if people saw the government set up a financial fund that would provide investors with a capital-protected and return guarantee, then I am convinced that the Hungarian population would not keep its savings in bank deposits that currently produce zero real returns, but would invest in this state fund and would thus be able to avoid Hungary being indebted to foreign countries to the same extent as it is now in debt on the basis of the agreement on the financing of the EUR 10 billion Paks nuclear power plant contract concluded by the government. What would we achieve with the better proposal? The Hungarian population could become the owner of an investment of major national importance in their own country by its own decision; the money and savings of the Hungarian population could cover the national share; people could get real returns in a well-functioning capital investment. On the other hand, the government has chosen a step that will actually deliver Hungary, which will be indebted to a foreign state, where appropriate, Russia. It is particularly interesting that Jobbik, which is accused of representing or embracing Russian interests, was the only parliamentary party to submit a proposal of national interest on this issue, one that prevents Hungary from being indebted. On the other hand, the government's proposal results in Hungary being indebted to Russia. The other opposition parties did not address the issue with noble simplicity. I ask you, Minister, to answer what you think about this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-33	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-19-34	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As promised by the government, immediately after the establishment of the new Parliament, the bill on the announcement of a loan agreement between the Hungarian and Russian States was submitted. This is the full text of the agreement and it clearly shows the benefits of the interstate loan agreement with the Russian party for Hungary. I would like to point out that the loan agreement has been concluded for a very long period of thirty years, and that the repayment of capital will only have to start after the new blocks have been put into operation. During the initial period prior to the repayment of the capital, interest increased by 3.95 per cent and then by a band, was also more favourable than market interest. Under these conditions, the loan is in line with the financing capabilities of the Hungarian budget and also complies with the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law. The Hungarian-Russian framework agreement already approved by the Parliament also ensures the construction of new nuclear power plant blocks, the safe dismantling of existing installations, the supply of fuel to the power plant, and the transport of spent fuel. A solution has therefore been found to cover all the details of the renewal of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. Honourable Congressman, The creation of the state capital fund proposed by you does not solve the problem, and the claims you make are not true, for example, to prevent Hungary from being indebted, and that Hungarian residents become owners in this way. Hungarian residents are now owners, as they will be owned by the Hungarian State. And remember, the financing and ownership issues are unrelated. You're trying to put the two together politically... [[The display is malfunctioning, the clock shows 175 minutes. Interviews from Jobbik: Time! Forever Novak: We've been listening to this for hours!]] - I listened to you - the two things don't relate. This is just how the Hungarian population becomes the owner. However, your creation of a capital base is not economically sound either, since the creation of such a capital base to make it more favourable to the general public than the bonds adopted by the current state. [[Interview from Fidesz: Time! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] , to this end a substantially higher interest rate must be secured. So, basically, this capital fund is the one that's costing up the current retail fund. By the way, I would like to point out that the Fidesz government has been very successful in raising capital for the population, as it was only 700 billion in 2010 and now it is 2200 billion. But you also did not take into account the fact that the population's funding is for a maximum of six years and that such a large amount of investment funding cannot be financed on an alternative basis by the capital market opportunities offered to the population. Therefore, neither in terms of cost nor in terms of economics, your intention to set up a capital base is entirely unfounded. Moreover, it is not true that there is an international example of this in the European Union, since these capital funds only finance investments in the competitive market. Paks expansion is not entirely a profit-based investment, and you know it best. Taking all this into account, your creation of a capital base is not a solution in terms of cost, economics or maturity, but a much more costly solution. I suggest that Jobbik change the slogan in the future, say we say it, but we're not gonna solve the problem. 'Cause that proves it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-35	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-19-36	Of course we can't accept it, Mr. Secretary. In recent moments, you have demonstrated that you can read better than answer a question. Jobbik submitted an independent proposal that would have been able to put people's money from household savings in the hope of higher returns into a financial fund that would build the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which would provide cover for this huge investment. You have not responded substantially to these claims, and you have put forward a success propaganda for the government in order to sign a contract that will indebte Hungary worth HUF 3 000 billion. And I would remind you once again that the only party who put a proposal for national self-interest on the table was Jobbik who was suspected of Russian influence, a proposal that wanted to solve the expansion of the Paks nuclear power plant from domestic sources, not the way the government did with foreign money. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-19-37	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstention. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interview to the Prime Minister's Office: "If it's EU money, then no matter where it goes? " The title is given below. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2014-06-19-38	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, In Physics, Chemistry and Biology, the number of graduate students is alarmingly low, and the lack of teachers endangers the socio-economic development of the country. It cannot be a complete solution to the problem, yet the so-called Öveges programme was welcome, where a hundred percent of them were able to create chemistry and physics classrooms from European sources in the building of certain secondary schools. It was also intended to modernise the curriculum. However, it seems that there have been serious delays in achieving these goals again, and that individual interests have once again triumphed over the public interest. For example, the establishment of the I. Béla High School in Szekszárd cost HUF 45 million, but it paid HUF 155 million during the entire project. For public procurement advice, 6.3 million feasibility studies were spent on 6 million software, 15 million rooms, 15 million for project management and 15 million forints for publicity. For the latter amount, an average-earning educator works for about 8 years. Looks like payments from Szekszárd are just the tip of the iceberg. According to our data, 20-20 workbooks containing a description of about 300 experiments were written in at least eight cities with EU money for an average of 30 million, although it is hard to imagine that the reactions of zinc and hydrochloric acid, for example, have to be presented differently in Kisvárdán than in Zalaegerszeg. The editing of these workbooks was applied for separately in each city, 20-20 workbooks for an average of 15 million forints, and they were all published in a study for an average of 25 million forints. In addition to these outstanding items, there are still a number of cases where overpriced purchases are suspected. Compared with the data of some 130 public procurements, there is a reasonable suspicion that, in an organised way, like Mr Zuschlag's method, business networks have obtained unfair money. Mr. Secretary. My first question is whether you agree with these amounts, or you believe that these items do not serve our objectives for the European Union, improving science education, but rather individual interests. My second question is whether you agree with the Fidesz President of the Humanitarian Commission of the Municipality of Szekszárd, who replied to Ákos Hadházy's interpellation, because they are [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] 100 percent of EU funding, it is not a problem if you put it in unnecessary places. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-06-19-39	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-06-19-40	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the Commissioner for bringing this matter to Parliament. I consider it fair that a specific inquiry into the specific issue of the Szekszárd proposal will be launched, and I will inform you in writing or orally, whether in Parliament or directly. On the other hand, his comments concerned not only the Szekszárd case, but also the implementation of the Belts programme in the country. As an individual constituencies representative, I have found that the implementation of this programme has been in order in several places, but I cannot dispute your claims, so I am ready to order a detailed investigation into the complexity of the Belts programme. The Prime Minister's Office has all the powers and powers to carry out these investigations and legality checks in the context of the coordination nature. As far as payments are concerned, I would like to note that in many cases the government and the beneficiaries of the tenders are on a forced course, as, due to delays and deadlines, all the European Union applications that were available to us between 2007 and 2013 will have to be paid by the end of May 2015. This does not mean that even an inch of legality could be given up, it does not mean that we should give up rationality, but in many cases it had to make decisions by the Parliament, the government or the applicants when they did not have the opportunity to discuss or challenge the merits of the 2006 tender in a meaningful way. I say this because after 2010, we did not have a chance to change the directions for proposals. It is therefore in Hungary's interest today that Hungary should pay all HUF 8200 billion by the end of 2015 without discussing the correct or incorrect targets set in 2006. With regard to HUF 8200 billion, let me note that 15 percent of my estimates, according to my calculations, went to the questions listed by you: project preparation, tendering, tender writing, public procurement advice, publicity. This means that people in Hungary have made HUF 1250 billion in the last seven years, according to our estimates, by participating in the running of applications. That is why the shocking situation is that complications cost more than the execution itself. With this practice, we would like to break up once and for all for the next seven years, so in the public sector there will be no possibility and no possibility of a public tender system in the public sector, there will be no way to use tender advisors, public procurement consultants, no way to finance communication and public funding. In the corporate sector, we will substantially reduce these spending opportunities, possibly a fraction of what is available today, of course ensuring that an entrepreneurial expert can be involved. So our ideas, which are about to be discussed in society, are about all the soft costs - let's call these costs, perhaps - to write down all these costs and to reduce them significantly. Once again, I estimate an average of 15 percent for a programme that has been paid for this kind of payment. If you talk to developers at local level, they tell you - if you have such friends, acquaintances, or mayor's work - that you can't make any profit today, but if you are a project manager, you can do your job with a terrible benefit. A special business and industry was built for this. The Prime Minister has given me the task of eliminating this professionally and as soon as possible. I will do this work, and I will inform the Parliament and the country of the conditions under which we consider it appropriate, while at the same time highlighting the transparency aspect, the application system can be implemented or reduced, because we would like to introduce a normative procedure in the corporate sector as well as public companies. In English: in case of larger amount [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] , up to EUR 2 million, do not have to submit a tender, provide support to entrepreneurs. I'm asking you to at least appreciate my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-41	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2014-06-19-42	Thank you very much. I certainly appreciate the Minister's reply. I had two questions, I think, for the first time, if we see the result of this investigation, I can accept this half, but the other half has not been answered, Minister, how to make it stronger for responsible leaders to take the use of EU funds seriously.
u2014-06-19-43	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 102 votes to 32 with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: " Competitive prices for a competitive economy - the reduction of overhead costs continues! " with the title " Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2014-06-19-44	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The past nearly one and a half years have been about reducing public burdens and lowering public service prices to average European standards. The socialist-free democrat governments have increased the prices of residential gas, electricity and other public services to multiples during their eight-year leadership. In 2010, the first measures of the newly formed Orbán government included the permanent freezing of overhead prices, since at the time Hungarian families paid for Europe's highest energy prices. While the inheritance left to us by socialist governments has been kept in order, the government has prepared a comprehensive reduction in public service costs. [[11.20]] As of 1 January 2013, the prices of residential gas, electricity and district heating have been reduced several times, which is almost a third lower due to the cuts in electricity and district heating in 2014. I should also mention a minimum 10% reduction in the costs of transporting water, sewers, sniffed sewage, chimney sweeps, bottled gas and waste. Dear Secretary of State, In addition to reducing the burden on the general public, we should also not forget to reduce the burden on businesses. Our country can be truly competitive in Europe and can only be a stable and firm partner with regional competitors if they have the possibility of dynamic development and expansion at home. If you like, jobs, free enterprise and competitive advantage are provided by cheap energy. For this reason, we have heard several times in recent years about reducing business costs. In the near future, I think it is important that a possible reduction in the costs of the overhead costs for businesses should indeed be given priority, which, of course, should also be preceded by a detailed and comprehensive impact assessment. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I would like to ask you how the government plans to significantly reduce entrepreneurship through the reduction of costs, thereby strengthening their domestic and international position. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-45	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-19-46	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The bulk of the utility and energy sector was owned by foreign multinational companies as a result of the privatisation carried out by the Horn government in the 1990s. Due to the privatization of the current government, which severely restricts the leeway of the current government, which served as a momentary budgetary interest, the State was much less able to influence the burden on families. The retail and industrial energy prices increased steadily beyond the increase in purchasing prices, the Hungarians were forced to bear disproportionate extra burdens, and the increase in charges affecting domestic businesses became a barrier to economic growth. The government, as you mentioned, frozen energy prices in 2010, decided at the end of 2012 to reduce retail electricity, gas and district heating charges. In the spring of 2013, the Parliament adopted the first regulatory law on the basis of which from 1 July 2013 the reduction of the rent included additional services: water utility, waste, chimney sweeping, sewage, LPG and the rest. Later laws further reduced the charges for electricity, natural gas and district heating. Over the past four years, the State has played an increasing role in strategic sectors that have a fundamental impact on the economy, particularly in the field of energy. We have achieved remarkable results with the integration of the service sector in the water utility sector and in the waste sector in the area of ongoing restructuring. The draft law on general rules for the provision of certain public services, which the government has already discussed at first reading, serves to achieve high quality and safe public services and to fulfil consumer interests. Building on this, a new regulatory environment for the promotion of non-profit utility services and the reduction of industrial costs can be developed. The Government's aim is to establish a public service structure on the base of state-owned companies in which the non-profit public tasks to be operated in the form of companies are delimited under uniform management. By doing so, the State will be a decisive and unavoidable factor in the public and economic utility provision. The non-profit public service and the underlying public engagement ensure the long-term maintenance of the retail reduction, the introduction of industrial reduction, the reduction of Hungary's energy dependency and the associated market conditions. My answer is therefore a firm yes: the government plans to further reduce entrepreneurship, continue to reduce the cost of the rent, and will implement it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-47	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The April and May elections had the stakes of continuing the reduction of the rent and extending the reduction to domestic entrepreneurs. I am pleased to hear that the government continues to maintain its promise and clearly sees that the reduction of the rent can have not only a social aspect, but also very serious labour market and economic consequences, if you like, to create a competitive advantage for Hungarian entrepreneurs, and this competitive advantage can be coupled with large-scale job creation. I accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister: " Will the government protect the Zsolnay brand as a hungaricum from a foreign investor? " with the title " Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2014-06-19-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the last few days, several press reports have been published that Swiss Art Kft. is a foreign owner of the Zsolnay factory. has obtained trademark protection for the brand name Zsolnay in the European Union and the US offices and authorities. If this is the case, he has violated the syndicate contract that he concluded with the municipality of Pécs, which simply records that anyone can do so only with the consent of the municipality of Pécs County. In 2005, the Hungarian National Asset Manager handed over Zsolnay to the municipality of Pécs County with commitments in the government decision, and the foreign investor recognised the obligations in the government decision as binding on himself. I would quote from this decision: any member of a group of companies may not transfer, transfer, transfer, transfer, lease or otherwise transfer to permanent use, hold no liability, bind as collateral, intellectual property rights, use of trademarks, brand name, business name, designation of origin, know-how, patent law, other intellectual rights, free of charge or liability. This is the government decision that should have been implemented. trademark registration is a long process. A long process in which certain authorities, official bodies, had to be sought on several occasions, to make comments to them, to submit submissions, to send feedback. The requests appear in official online notifications, and they do so precisely because they are public-credit notices, so that anyone who still has the right to comment or who wishes to object can do so in time. The continuous monitoring of these records - especially if the brand is such property, almost the whole property, is of such value - I think that it is more than expected of those who operate and supervise the Zsolnay factory. If it is true press news, it is almost incomprehensible how the trademark protection of a Hungaricum could be recorded in complete secrecy. If it was not only an almost incomprehensible degree of negligence, unfortunately, the situation is even sadder than that. a government decision also imposes obligations on the Government to monitor the fulfilment of a decision on an ongoing basis. After news of the fact that the foreign investor has repeatedly violated his contractual obligation, I ask the Minister or Minister of State whether the annual reports provided for in the Government Decision have been evaluated, whether any checks have been carried out. If they have been officially notified [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Is that a trademark that's in the hands of a foreigner? [[The president's ringing again.]] If it's in foreign hands, what do you want to do to get it back? Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-51	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[11.30]]
u2014-06-19-52	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In advance, the government will do everything in its power to keep Žilnay with its original defenses. The facts we know, which are in many respects identical to what you have said, are as follows. In 2005, the government decided to dispose of the State-owned shares of the Zsolnay Group to the municipality of Pécs free of charge. In accordance with the Government's decision, the municipality agreed to do everything it could to preserve the Zsolnay tradition, the intellectual heritage, when supplying the products with the Zsolnay trademark. It undertook that any member of the group of companies may not transfer the rights of property specified in the Annex to the contract to the benefit of another entity, shall not alienate the use of the trade mark, brand name or other intellectual property rights, may not transfer them free of charge or charge them on a return basis. In autumn 2012, the municipality issued a tender for the sale of the company's majority stock package. The application was won by an individual citizen of Syrian origin. According to the results of the tender, the municipality concluded sales, syndicates and other connecting contracts. In the syndicated contract, the parties stated that the buyer fully acknowledges the obligations and sanctions specified in the government decision and confirms their retention by signing the contract. In view of the fact that the Hungarian National Asset Manager is solely related to the municipality, it may ask the municipality to fulfil the obligations of the government decision, or only the municipality to disclose the information when verifying the fulfilment of the obligations, not the private party. Compliance with the syndicated contract may be verified by the municipality. According to our knowledge, the municipality had no knowledge of Zsolnay's word mark Swiss Art Kft. by foreign registration. According to the municipality's information, as soon as the press heard about it, they immediately contacted the company, its President, in order to clarify the matter. The municipality has informed the company that it considers only the cancellation of the trademark or the free transfer of Zsolnay to the Porcelain Manufacture to be an acceptable solution. The MNV shall monitor the fulfilment of the obligations on an ongoing basis. If there is no agreement between the municipality and the party, the Hungarian National Asset Manager will use all available legal means to enforce the state interests that you emphasize. Since the EU Office for the Registration of Community Trade Marks has not contacted MNV Zrt. or the Hungarian State or the National Intellectual Property Office, MNV Zrt. has not been aware of the registration procedure. In view of the fact that the Hungarikum Committee has recently included Zsolnay porcelain and ceramics in the Hungarikum Collection, MNV Zrt. monitor compliance with the obligations of the contract in particular, continuously consult the local government on issues relating to the operation of the company, and I repeat, do all that is expected of it in order to save the outstanding industrial history of Zsolnay and guarantee the rights of the trade mark. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I ask you to accept my answer by saying that, if necessary, we will be ready to come back to this later. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-53	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-06-19-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We heard the government was doing everything they could. At the ministerial hearing, your minister, Mr Secretary of State, said that he comes from business, has a very large legal practice, and knows exactly what the value of these rights is. You know exactly how to get this back, but you also need to know how to keep it. What Mr. Secretary of State said that MNV Zrt. was unaware of this is very simple: it is necessary to subscribe to a very simple online notification system. It is not worth saving, because such disputes, information received so late, could have been saved. I am pleased that the Government will do everything in its power to get the Zsolnay back, because I think it is in our best interests, but it could have been prevented, and therefore I cannot accept the Secretary of State's reply. Protect Pécs's values, protect Hungary's interests! Thank you.
u2014-06-19-55	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 37 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " How long must we wait on the side of the road? " The title is given below. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2014-06-19-56	Mr President, Dear House, For more than a year now, the government has set new deadlines for the settlement of the so-called foreign exchange credit issue. First he waits for the Curia, then for the European Court of Justice, other decision-making bodies, now again for the Curia, and now, when the gates appear to open, he sets a time limit for autumn, with the condition that he is first entitled to negotiate with the Banking Association, and when the Banking Association comes to something that appears to be a common solution, he will be entitled to present it to the Parliament. In the meantime, the Banking Federation is making such a statement that it expects - and I quote precisely - that it expects - that, taking into account the sensitivity of the banking system, this solution should be implemented, which in itself is outrageous, as we have seen in recent years that the more time the government sits down with the Banking Association for breakfast, the more the mood for action is waning. Therefore Jobbik calls for an immediate solution, not to discuss and wait until autumn, because every month hundreds of Hungarian families can have their lives on it, and you have been playing this "screw it, let it" game for years. After all, in four years, they have been unable to come up with a solution that would fully guarantee the safety of the people concerned, except for the only one that would benefit at least the lucky ones. On the other hand, they now stand very hard, rhetorically very hard in front of the cameras in the TV studios and claim that the last unwarranted forint should be taken back from this banking system. Now, this is the sentence Jobbik has been waiting for for over three years, because the reasons for our regularly submitted legislative proposals are in order. This is precisely why we are calling for the forinting of loans at the rate of admission, because this is the only solution to give back to people on the basis of the last unwarranted forint " the polluter pays'principle, and to reverse the troubles and damage to them, only to the banks concerned, but to those that caused them. What, on the other hand, is happening in reality? In front of the Justice Committee, the Fidesz majority rejected the right-wing motion that not only could we have created the foundations for the forinting, but, let's say, we would have guaranteed that no one would be able to throw their house, their apartment, in many cases, at just 30-40 percent of its value, by writing this off of the debt, so that the bank would come and demand another million, if any, tens of millions. So Jobbik put down a proposal that would literally guarantee the lives and safety of families. The fidesz majority swept him down, then stood in front of the cameras and said he'd take back the last forint, regroup it for the people. The only problem is that this is not what the action shows at all, because we have tabled our proposal aimed at the extraordinarily vulnerable people, our proposal aimed at exempting victims from the levy; we have been swept by the Fidesz-KDNP majority in order, one by one, and very often without justification, in the same way as in the previous cycle. So the question is: what is taking away the Fidesz-KDNP government's desire for action, why is it failing when action should be taken? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-57	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-19-58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The congressman submitted this interpellation on 4 June, and he obviously did not know the Curia's decision, because it was born on 16 June, so he did not say a word about his initial interpellation. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes!]] The big drum, he actually told me. The question you asked in writing has not been repeated orally [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Here it is!]] Rather, he lamented that Jobbik's proposals had not been accepted by the governing parties. Of course, I will answer the question, or rather respond, because life is proven. [[11.40]] It has been demonstrated that, on the one hand, the government has been responsible for the problem of foreign exchange creditors since 2010. It is true that the Socialist Government has been irresponsible, unthinkingly encouraging banks and the general public to secure their well-being from credit instead of real economic growth and an increase in income. But there's no free lunch. Unfortunately, it has come, after the start of the crisis, everyone must have realized that the time has come to pay them back in a big way. In 2010, the Fidesz government was no longer given the opportunity to promote itself to the public and to encourage new loans and to feel how good life is in Hungary, but to stop foreign exchange lending and start helping those in distress. You have said many times over the past four years that "I am pleased with any measures that can help a foreign exchange creditor. " I'll tell you three measures that have helped a total of 376 thousand, so you've enjoyed the government's decision 376 thousand times over the past four years. With the possibility of final repayment, 170,000 people lived, and HUF 980 billion were repaid. 35 percent of stakeholders, 181 000, have concluded a price barrier agreement, which is a partial solution, but this will also be resolved permanently. And in the end, 25,000 people bought property from the National Asset Manager. This is just 376 thousand debtors, who must have enjoyed this decision, along with you. But the final solution will come after this, because the Curia decision, not mentioned in your interpellation, has been taken, which creates the basis, both in legal and economic terms, for this serious social problem to be finally eliminated and solved by the government, together with Parliament. I believe that if Jobbik thinks consistently, then, after this bill is drawn up, which will be sufficiently thorough and sufficiently wide and will provide a definitive solution for foreign exchange creditors, it will consider and say that this is the solution that will permanently close this foreign exchange credit problem in Hungary, this ten-year difficulty, and will support the bill and will vote for it. And for a campaign tool and theme, you'll have to choose something new and different. So we are also looking forward to your support for the forthcoming bill, which will put an end to the problem of foreign exchange lenders. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-59	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take it. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The feeling that the Secretary of State didn't even read the question is priceless. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But that's not the problem. The main problem is that the answer you gave is not only that you do not answer the points, but you are actually in conflict with yourself. He says there's no free lunch. Indeed, that is what we say, that justified debts must be repaid until the last forint. The only problem is that you weren't in opposition anywhere until 2006-2007-2008, when everyone from the IMF to the Swiss central bank warned that there would be a problem with foreign exchange-linked products. However, your opposition amendments and combatant press releases are missing, but they are not found in the archives. And now you're talking about negotiating with the Banking Association and putting something on the table in the fall. And I say that Parliament will meet for at least another two weeks, but sit for three or four weeks, don't go on vacation, solve this problem right now. 'Cause that's what the electorate gave him the authority to do, not to try to put something on the table after a vacation, negotiating with the criminals, part of the criminals, and the Banking League. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Act immediately and immediately. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-61	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 30 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " In the summer, there are fewer children in need, or why only a fraction of children in need get a summer social meal? " with the title " Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2014-06-19-62	Dear Secretary of State, School year's over, and that's the end of kindergarten school meals. The more fortunate families can manage to feed their children, but the poorer families, in need, are in trouble. This situation was helped by the summer social catering introduced by the MSZP government. In 2002 we spent another HUF 200 million on it, but at the end of the cycle HUF 2.4 billion, of which 120 thousand children received support for the summer holiday for 54 days. However, Fidesz has not increased this amount in the last four years, only in 2014, with HUF 240 million during the campaign, which solves only 110 children's meals. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: 110?]] In addition, they made access to this aid more difficult by amending the law. In fact, conditions were imposed during the tendering procedure that many municipalities could not fulfil. The problem is that in 2010, 2400 settlements applied for the summer social catering, whereas in 2013, only 1170 settlements participated in the program. Yet the number of children in need did not decrease at all, but even increased. This is also confirmed by recent research showing that we are the second worst in the OECD countries in terms of child deprivation. It turned out that " every other family in the last year could not buy the necessary food for themselves and their families. It is worth mentioning how many children are affected during the year by the reduced meal itself, when children are supposed to have regular access to multiple meals per day. In 2009, around 370 thousand children were provided, while in February this year Miklós Soltész spoke of more than 560 thousand children, of whom 360,000 children receive full support for meals, 230 thousand children eat 50 percent, in nursery and kindergarten or school. A significant increase in the number of children in need also reflects the above-mentioned data on the significant poverty of society. Yet, during the course of the year, more than half a million children receive meals during the school year, and only 110,000 children during the summer holiday. You have refused to deal with this issue in substance over the past four years. It says a lot about Fidesz that in the summary section of the government referral on summer catering, where it should also be included, how the document relates to the government's programme, it says that the draft regulation is not directly related to the government's programme. Indeed, because the government does not have a programme, and in the previous four years there has been no question of child poverty or child hunger. [[Interview from Fidesz: Time! Time!]] In the spirit of " continuing, " the government does not now have any direct relationship with children's summer meals, with children's hunger being eradicated, or with the support of the poor. [[The president's ringing several times.]] Mr. Secretary. I ask what is being done to ensure that no child starves in Hungary today, why it is not possible for the summer social meals of children to be resolved.
u2014-06-19-63	Thank you, Congresswoman. Take a word of advice: first fix your time frame, because it went 30 seconds too far. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-19-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There is a discreet charm when the socialists themselves talk about the feeding of children and the eradication of child hunger, when their own programme manager, Zsuzsa Ferge, admitted their own failure at the time when they provided a budget of 80 billion, but only HUF 8 billion was actually used. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It's not true.]] Somehow, I see that the socialists in the opposition always have a good idea of what to do when they're on the government, then they always have an excuse for what they haven't done. This is no different in terms of child hunger. The situation of families has already been discussed today. You were here when we said that while people's average incomes have increased by 7% over the last four years, while inflation has basically ceased, family members have more than 12 percent. Thus, the income of those who have children has increased much more. We believe, for example, that this is a good way to combat child poverty. And it's more credible than when you're organizing a hunger march with a fellow Member with a hundred million bank accounts at the top of it. You are using poverty and poor people, not trying to solve their problems. [[11.50]] For some reason, the socialists believe that as long as there are poor people in this country, they have a political chance of staying in Parliament. However, we are really trying to act effectively on this. You wanted to tax the family allowance, we introduced the family tax relief system, you doubled unemployment, and we offered the job protection plan to the family mothers. If we look at the time when socialist governments raised the summer food subsidies, we can see that in the year of the elections, they were also more active. If we look at how he was a few years ago, say, 2006, 2007 or 2008, how the figures turned out around then, we can see that while the state spent 1.2 billion forints on this, now 2.64 billion forints. This means that we have indeed, as you have mentioned, increased this amount by 10 percent from last year to this year, and if I look at the previous years, the former socialist period, referred to by you, compared to that brigade, except for preparation for the campaign period, is 1.2 billion instead of 2.6 billion. In the same way, 120,000 children receive this kind of support through municipalities, but while there were 30 days in the previous period, now for a good few years there are 44-54 days when this kind of support is due to all families. So we can say that children are safer now. We have tried to create a system that not only helps children to eat and eat in the summer, but also puts local entrepreneurs in a position and can also give children healthier food during the summer. That is why, for example, we have increased the amount of food materials that can be spent each person for this purpose, since we have said that from now on children should not be given heated canned food, but that food materials should be obtained from a 40 km radius or from the neighbouring county, thus creating a livelihood for local farmers - not only for children but also for local farmers - and that should be processed in local cuisine. You obviously attacked this system, because you were the supporters of that system, the beneficiaries of it - I think you are primarily financial supporters - in which, in the case of large companies, whether owned by international companies, large suppliers placed the food, in large kitchens, even hundreds of kilometres of it, cooled, frozen, and then heated these cans for children on site. Now this is much healthier, and we can also say that the new system is capable of providing the most support for the most disadvantaged children in the different situation of the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-65	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-06-19-66	I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply. Once again, more than half of the settlements are out of funding because they can't apply, and I would like to remind you that the number of people living in extreme poverty has increased by 500,000. Today, 74.2 percent of families cannot finance an unexpected expense of HUF 50,000. 66.6 percent of families cannot finance a one-week domestic holiday, and 33 percent of families today cannot eat meat, vegetables, and fruit every two days. Mr Secretary, you have dealt with us for two minutes in your speech, which also indicates that you have not been able to say anything about the governance of the last four years, because you have nothing to say, because you have done nothing about poverty. And once again, I cannot accept your answer.
u2014-06-19-67	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 105 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 11:53 p.m., and we're moving on to the immediate questioning. My fellow Members, who are leaving the Chamber for an urgent public task, should do so as quickly and quietly as possible. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, After my fellow Members have taken their seats in the Chamber, we will continue our work. Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "The nation's great telephone theft case. " Mr. Minister has appointed Mr.László Tasnádi Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[On Dr. Tamás Bellozó's signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I welcome the secretary of state in the arena; I think he didn't think it would happen to him in the past either. Relax, Secretary of State, I will not ask you in my own case, as who would be interested in Hungary that the phone of an opposition Member under type C national security protection can be stolen here in Parliament at the annual hearing of the Minister of the Interior, in his personal presence, and for more than a year the police have not been able to achieve any results in this case. I will ask you my question in a far more important and apparently more important matter of public interest. As a matter of fact, cell phones disappeared at the Prime Minister's family party, the wedding of his daughter. According to the news, this petty theft case is being investigated by the National Bureau of Investigation, who, in addition to interrogations, took DNA samples from witnesses, if all is true, from dozens of them. If the news is true, the cost of the investigation is now millions of forints. So I ask the Secretary of State whose phones have disappeared on this wedding party, which justifies such a case being treated as such. Maybe a secure person's phone is missing, maybe a state chief's phone is missing, police or secret service chief's phone is missing that the National Bureau of Investigation has to deal with this? Exactly how much has the investigation cost so far? Exactly how many people did they buy - to clarify that - DNA samples during the investigation? Who, and exactly, is under what law, whose decision are they investigating this case? Namely, if you could find out which police chief is responsible for this investigation? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-19-69	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasnádi. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-19-70	Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you know, according to the Criminal Procedure Act, the investigating authority is obliged to carry out a full investigation of each crime and to investigate possible perpetrators. All the assets laid down by law are at the disposal of the investigating authority, and it is up to the investigating authority to decide on its own use. Such a case has indeed been in the case you have chosen for understandable reasons, but I must add that there are a very large number of cases where experts are employed by the police, and it really costs a lot of money. For example, the determination of the DNA profile, which is one of the possibilities of the new age that the investigating authority is using. It's an expensive procedure, but it's very effective to determine who the perpetrator might have been. I think a lot of cases that cost a lot of money could be highlighted. You've picked one of these. I think there was a reason for that. In the case, they've got a DNA profile from 26 people, and we're investigating it right now. I believe that the investigating authority, regardless of the identity, denomination, financial position or position of the victim, should always be free to consider the means it uses. I think legal certainty requires this in each case, not just in the case you raised. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-71	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2014-06-19-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll give you a case like this, Mr. Secretary. The case of the trench gang, where for two and a half years the court couldn't make a decision because the DNA couldn't be analyzed because of the lack of money from the expert institute. One or a few DNA samples. [[12.00]] Two, I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, and I'm asking you, who was the very serious person who caused the National Bureau of Investigation's Department to be chasing murderers today, but looking for a phone, because an average citizen has two options. Either they tell him that his phone is not worth 50,000 forints, or that the police are not investigating him, or that his phone will be shot at over 50,000 forints, and he will receive a termination order within two weeks or within a month. Feel free to ask your friends and family, in nine out of ten cases, this is what a Hungarian citizen receives, which is what the people you refer to a lot, while after such a larido they spend millions of forints on such a case, and they waste the state's resources on a case that we have not yet received an answer as to why. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-73	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-74	Honourable Congressman, I think if we don't pick some cases and criticize the head of the investigating authority, we're moving forward. I don't know how you know that. [[Lajos Korózs: Ministry of the Interior.]] But I believe that the division of cases is the responsibility of the current commander. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-75	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " Is the government willing to launch a free Internet after advertising tax? " with the title " Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman says yes, he'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We welcome the fact that Jobbik's proposal to introduce advertising tax, particularly for multi-company companies, has finally been adopted after several more votes have been voted out on this proposal in recent years. It was a bit painful that our amendment proposal to use this revenue to free the basic retail internet service had been swept off. The free internet, also proposed by Jobbik for a long time, would be extremely justified, so much so that even the author L. Simon László himself, the newest author of the advertising tax, gave me the truth about this, and, turning to the Minister of National Economy, he said that if the government does not change this process, Hungary will indeed face a very serious competitive disadvantage. I have also presented in the debate the data from the latest report by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority here in plenary during a night debate. According to this, the third lowest rate of mobile broadband penetration, i.e. the proportion of mobile broadband users on a regular basis, at least monthly, is the third in Hungary within the European Union. In addition, the gross median of access is more than twice the median price of the old Western Member States, and even if income conditions are taken into account, for example, in Denmark, the Hungarian price is more than 23 times the price there, so it is 2200 percent more expensive if income relations are taken into account. So we are not complaining that the Internet in Hungary is 10-20-30, but, where appropriate, up to 2,200 percent more expensive than, for example, in Denmark. However, the Internet today is as much a part of everyday living as other utilities. We therefore consider it appropriate to reduce internet prices and, in particular, to introduce a free basic internet. We look forward to the government's position on this. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-19-77	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-06-19-78	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, this is what the Parliament voted for. Your proposal was not supported. And what I can tell you right now is that the government doesn't support it either. Although it is true that the further expansion of the Internet is an important goal in Hungary, we agree on this, but not that this resource is not intended for this purpose by the government, but for other, more important social policy purposes, such as improving and developing educational infrastructure; renovating schools and building schools so that Hungarian young people, Hungarian students and Hungarian children can receive the basics of the educational service and learn to read and write in decent conditions. With all due respect, I'm asking you to understand that the government, the pro-government, has a different idea.
u2014-06-19-79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-19-80	I am sorry that the Secretary of State did not understand that the question now does not concern a voted-out proposal as to whether revenue from advertising tax can be used for it, but my question was exactly what Mr President read out whether the government is willing to launch the free internet after the advertising tax. So either from another source, but are they willing to do so, or, as I explained further, even to use other means to reduce the cost of using the Internet? School development is a beautiful thing, the free internet would also serve this, as teleworking and distance learning would also serve to boost, but the electronic administration could also be made more general, and the competitiveness of the entire Hungarian state could be improved. Access to information shall be subject to Article XXI. It is, however, as essential as heating or bathing water. This is why wider internet access should be introduced, for example in order to achieve balanced information, and a basic service should be provided to everyone under subject law, if the Internet is already a multiple of Western prices in Hungary. Does the government wish to change that? That's my main question. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-19-81	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-82	Thank you very much for accepting that the revenue from the advertising tax will not be used to spread the free internet, and I trust that this also means that you support the government's idea that we will expand the education infrastructure from this estimated HUF 8-9-10 billion. I think that your question beyond the advertising tax will come up again when the Parliament discusses next year's budget for 2015, as we will obviously take into account the proposal of the opposition representatives, as we have done, and of course, if you maintain it and see a place in the budget for next year's implementation, the government will naturally consider it. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-83	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Bencsik, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: " How does the state's takeover of gas reservoirs increase Hungary's energy security? " with the title " Minister János Fónagy has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Our country's gas supply is safe despite the current unstable situation in Ukraine, but it is important that the country is prepared for the situation if the Russian and Ukrainian parties do not fulfil their contractual obligation to supply gas. In the event of a reduction in transit transport, the only way to ensure a smooth supply is to ensure that the Hungarian government has taken a number of steps to increase regional energy security in recent years. Among these are the national ownership of gas storage capacity in Hungary and the construction of the Hungarian-Slovak gas interconnector, which contribute to ensuring the smooth supply of gas. At the same time, the situation in Ukraine has made it more urgent than ever to invest in providing new transport routes and access to new sources. Due to Hungary's geographical circumstances, it is a country which needs energy imports and therefore has an interest in increasing the share of energy available in Hungary and ensuring diversification of sources of imports. Recognizing this, we have been able to buy back a number of instruments in the previous cycle, especially gas storage, which have been privatised by socialist governments. As a result, the citizens of Hungary can now feel more secure in terms of the amount of energy supply and the price to be paid for it. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State how the government is preparing and preparing for any interruption in Ukrainian transit, and how Hungary's energy security will be contributed to the state's ownership of gas reservoirs.
u2014-06-19-85	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. [[12.10]]
u2014-06-19-86	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I strongly confirm what you have said. At present, gas supplies are continuous towards Hungary. Russian disagreements with Ukraine do not yet affect distribution to Europe or Hungary. Because of its currentity, I say that the failure of the Ukrainian gas pipeline exploded on Tuesday did not cause any problems, the Ukrainian party redirected the transport from the section concerned to a spare pipeline and ensured continuity. In order to prepare for the winter period, the supply of gas reservoirs in Hungary is ongoing and the quantity necessary for long-term safe supply is still available in the Hungarian storage facilities. This is partly due to the entry into storage and, I would add, to market-trade relations. As you have pointed out, gas storage stores bought back or purchased by the Hungarian State in recent years are one of the most important means of enabling Hungary to participate in the gas business, not only as a consumer but also as a participant in gas trade in Central and Eastern Europe, as we currently have the most important storage capacity in Central Europe, and in this, both our own safe supply interests, our commercial interests and the supply of the countries around us will play a role and play a role. Of course, this requires a system of interconnectors, as you mentioned, so that a network for reverse transport is available to countries. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-87	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-88	Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answer. I would like to draw your attention to this, and our group is clearly committed to this direction, so that, in addition to affordability, security of supply is at least as important a aspect of government energy policy as it was when it comes to reducing costs. Even because the share of Community ownership in the energy sector needs to be increased, both in terms of production, network distribution and wholesale and retail. In addition, I would like to point out that the increase in domestic production in terms of hydrocarbons and natural gas can only be ensured if we pay even more attention to the research and preparation of existing domestic occurrences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-89	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State does not wish to use the possibility of rejoinder. [[Dr. János Fónagy says no.]] Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " What about the young people? " with the title " The Minister appointed Mr Sándor Czomba as State Secretary for his response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for the answer personally. [[On Dr. Wind Bernadett's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-19-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One of Hungary's biggest and most pressing problems is the future of young Hungarians. The situation of young people in this country is more difficult than that of their parents, and it is responsible for every government in the last 25 years that has not been able to detect and resolve this situation. I could say that all governments have lived for today in recent decades, and that the current political gain has always been more important to you. That's exactly what young people are drinking today! I'm dead, and I'm gonna draw attention to that. Without them, there'll be nothing in this country. If these young people have no job, they can't start a family, they can't stay home, they don't pay taxes, they don't take care of their parents; we lose them. According to Tarki's research, for years, every second member of the 19-28 age group has been thinking about going abroad. When we look around, we all see more and more young people leaving the country, going abroad. At the ministerial hearing of Minister Mihály Varga, I have faced the fact that you have no comprehensive strategy on how to resolve this situation. I understand that Fidesz cannot provide a solution to this problem, but there is a current issue. Teaching ends now, and many young people start looking for work in this country. In summer cucumber season, they'll have even harder things to do than they did during the months of the year. You guys had a summer schoolwork program last year. This worked with state aid and young people were able to work in the municipalities. I ask the Secretary of State what their purpose is, what their plan is now with this programme, whether it will start this year, whether it will be possible for young people to do so, and if it starts, why have they not taken the necessary measures earlier. It was precisely Minister of State Czomba who announced this programme much earlier last year in order to enable the municipalities to prepare themselves, knowing that the municipalities in this programme must ensure their own involvement.
u2014-06-19-91	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-06-19-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have some good news, and partly I agree with your first sentence. Indeed, the situation of young people and young people is not only a crucial issue in Hungary, but also in Europe as a whole, and there are Member States with a unemployment rate above 50 percent for those under the age of 25. Based on the latest figures, this is now below 20 percent in Hungary, which is a huge achievement, I think, and not by chance. Allow me to draw your attention to some of the programmes that the Hungarian Government has taken over the past four years. In the context of the Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs, we have promoted the employment of some 140 thousand young people under the age of 25. With experience support, training programmes, 130 thousand young people were partly supported by training and partly by work experience. We helped young people become entrepreneurs for HUF 8.5 billion, this program is running at the moment and is in the second stage of implementation. He mentioned the summer schoolwork. Indeed, it was a huge success last year, in the order of 1.5 billion forints, some 16,000 students were able to participate. Good news, we announced today at 11:00 a.m. during a press conference that we will continue this program this year. About the same magnitude, we want to address 8500 young people worth 1.5 billion HUF. This figure is so modest because we are counting two months, but last year also showed that young people were usually employed for one month, so this number is likely to be around 16,000 this year as well. And the local authorities aren't late for anything, the students aren't late for anything. I dare say that to you. They are in a ready-to-go state based on last year's experience, they look forward to submitting their labour needs, and students in an area of interest. So let's get this program started. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-94	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State Czomba, but it would be premature to be happy here, because it was the Ombudsman who made a strong criticism of the programme precisely. After all, there was a settlement in which almost exclusively the relatives of municipal representatives or civil servants were employed in the programme. I very much hope that the continuation of this practice is not ready for this year as well. That is why I think that if you were preparing for a government, you should have been prepared to launch this programme, in such a way that you can correct the parts of the Ombudsman's objection. I will be very observant about the implementation of this programme. I very much hope that after the end of the summer, we will not return to what mistakes have been repeated year after year. I have one more question about the Youth Guarantee Programme. You have undertaken to give young people under the age of 25 a job, education or practice within four months. I've asked you for the action plan, and it says that you've got different packages for young people. I ask you, Mr Secretary, how are these packages in the framework of the Youth Guarantee Programme? What exactly are they up to, when and how, within the framework of this guarantee programme, in the next period?
u2014-06-19-95	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-96	In fact, there was an ombudsman's report on student work, which said that there was one where he took the close relative out. Four out of the 16,000 people, write and say, this happened for 4 people in two settlements. I would just like to note this in parentheses, so that wasn't typical. By the way, in the current circular, we call to the attention of the local authorities, with a taxative description, so that the statements of the Ombudsman's report can be taken into account in the spirit of equal opportunities in the involvement of the next programme. Youth guarantee: It has been said many times that the Hungarian government is standing idly and watching the situation. On 5 December, we submitted our ideas on the Youth Guarantee Programme to the appropriate location of the European Union. We're basically at the point where the program is accepted. We just said that a total of HUF 15 billion is available for seven years, which the EU gives to the four most disadvantaged regions. [[12.20]] Well, that's quite a drop in the sea, to put it mildly. To do this, we will add HUF 205 billion in the next seven years, and we plan to add 180 thousand. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We will help young people in this way. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-97	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Varga and Nándor Gúr, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Attorney General an immediate question entitled "The Prosecutor's Office sets different standards. " I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2014-06-19-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, On May 20, 2014, the court finally acquitted former Socialist Mayor Gyula Molnár of New Buda, restoring his honor, ending a witch hunt, but obviously this judgment cannot restore the situation that, in a manner that influenced the 2010 parliamentary and mayor elections, the witch-hunt of the prosecutor's office influenced his fate. I am saying this because in March 2011, the mayor of Miskolc, the Fidesz Kriza Ákos, filed a complaint against unknown unsubs in several cases. I am talking about March 2011, and since then, in more than three years there has been virtually no evidence of anything happening. 74 complaints were filed, detailed hearings, expert involvement, hearing of witnesses took place, cases were closed several times, and they were always restarted. As opposed to this, if opposition or left-wing announcements, reports are made, the investigation is superficial, there is no expert involvement, potential suspects are asked whether there has been a crime - obviously their claim that they are not - and their objection to the complaint is rejected without justification by the fact that they are not involved. The country's publicity has also shown that they have not been as hasty about traffikmuty as they have been in some cases involving opposition politicians. Yesterday, however, an exemplary decision was made: for the fifth time, the former holding director was told in Miskolc that he had not committed a crime in a specific case. The investigating authority closed this once after an in-depth investigation, the D.A. reopened it, examined it, and closed the investigation again. You've been extra-privateed by the mayor, filed with a law firm in the capital. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Then he appealed when he was acquitted. [[The president's ringing again.]] So there's a continuous acquittal, yet we see you guys running a witch hunt. So I'm asking you, is there always a level playing field with the D.A.'s office? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-99	Thank you. I'll count your time frame, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Attorney General Péter Polt. Here you go, Attorney General.
u2014-06-19-100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You asked with your fellow Member whether the D.A.'s office had different standards. What I can tell you is that identical cases are the same standards, and different cases are different compared to the way, let's say, differences measure them. This corresponds not only to the Aristotelian principle of justice, but also to the laws in force. So I assure the Member that all matters are dealt with legally and in accordance with the regulations. You've brought up more cases, specific cases. I do not wish to address all of these specifically, but I can tell you that there are cases in which the court once acquitted, condemned, and once acquitted the same person in the absence of evidence. The last thing you said was that your private life had been broken is obviously not the prosecution's case anymore, because the D.A.'s office had previously expressed its opinion in this case. If there is an objection to any specific matter, I can also promise that we will investigate and answer them in general in the spirit of legality and equality. All in all, I can say that over 900 thousand cases arrived last year are dealt with quickly by the D.A. as far as possible, in any event within the legal deadline and in accordance with objective truth. In addition, last year, the indictment was again more than 96 percent, which shows the attitude and effectiveness of the prosecutor's office. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-101	I thank the Attorney General for his reply. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga in return. [[Nándor Gúr: Thank you very much...]] In return, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. That is why I asked what the answer would be, and I was told that Congressman Varga would answer. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Fidesz, according to my judgment, is using the D.A.'s office as an element of the election campaign, that's how I see it. That's how I see it, because the regime appeared as a postman at the time, in terms of, say, the case of Gyula Molnár. Looks like Fidesz' extended hand is the D.A.'s office, and it's not right. This is not good in the specific Miskolc cases mentioned, where it rejects one side and reheats stories on the other side. I think that measuring the same standards here should be an essential story. Obviously, the D.A. and the D.A. can't abuse their duties, duties, or even leak them. It is not good for the Attorney General, let us say, to speak only to pro-government politicians within the walls of Parliament when it comes to concrete matters. It would be good to have a measurement of the same standards and to have everyone act accordingly. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It is not the power to be served by those who must be dealt with. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-103	Thank you. The Attorney General is entitled to a rebuttal answer. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I would be happy to talk to you about professional matters within my powers and within the limits of the laws, as well as with other Members. I note that there are a lot of written questions from the opposition side, and we will answer them. It's not up to me, and it's not up to the D.A. to figure out who, when and what he's coming to us with. I can assure you that we will give everyone the right answer, just as it is prescribed. And let me just say that, in my opinion, it's not just appearances, it's reality that's against the prosecution's standards. Pretending can be built, but the underlying reality can never be changed. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-105	I thank the Attorney General for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Egyed, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: " When will they stop using double standards? ' The title is given below. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. The congressman accepts the identity of the responder, and you have the floor.
u2014-06-19-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Through the Calvary of an Ózd family, I would like to demonstrate what is going on in reality, what is being done by the police, what is the extent to which the intimidation of Hungarians has taken place, and where is the racism of the Roma. In Somsály, a part of Ozd's city with a glorious past, there is a Hungarian family of six children, who are terrorized every day by the Gypsy family living next door. Their last action was to throw a Molotov cocktail at the family's car, fortunately not hit it, but before that, there was a similar attempt: the mother was stabbed, the spear was thrown into her leg when she accompanied her two little children on the road, tried to run her over, there was a group armed attack, and every day there were scoldings starting with the " Hungarian " prefix. In this case, nothing will happen, and the perpetrators will be brought in for a few hours at most, and then they'll be out again shortly, and then the Ozd Police Commissioner will visit the family just to ask what the betterman wanted there. Well, Mr. Secretary, help the family feel they're not alone. Think of it if, in reverse, you do not give'god, such an attack would be the victim of a gypsy family; then the apology of the defenders would not make the country clear, but unfortunately, because it was a Hungarian family, so it is quiet. At the same time, with renant and incompatible families living in municipal properties in Somsály, they did not pay rent, they accumulated millions of debts to the city, the city administration simply doesn't want to do anything. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you think it's okay. And I would also like to ask how incompatible members of the minority are sanctioned, their attacks on the Hungarian people, their racist manifestations. When will they stop using double standards? When a man of Hungarian origin receives powers and treatment in his own country [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In front of the law, like the Roma? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.30]]
u2014-06-19-107	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-19-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The democratic rule of law is based on the fact that no one is above the law. This principle of constitutional law is followed by the Hungarian authorities in their daily work. The Hungarian police act against everyone who violates the law, regardless of their racial, ethnic or religious affiliation; and they provide everyone with the right to life and property security and protection. In all cases, criminal proceedings are initiated, conducted and carried out in accordance with the law, and any legal action is carried out, acting against everyone on the basis of the zero tolerance principle. So far, no double standards have been applied and no double standards have been applied in Ozd or in any other settlement in the country. The police shall take the necessary measures to prevent, interrupt, detect and apprehend the perpetrators, regardless of the origin of the perpetrators or victims. With regard to the specific case, the specific case, I would like to inform you that there are still several criminal proceedings in progress, which is why the Member's claim that the police do not act against the perpetrators of crime is not correct. I shall also inform you that the decision to order a preliminary arrest falls within the jurisdiction of the court. In order to facilitate the rapid settlement of conflicts between the victim and neighbouring families and to ensure peace in the place you asked, the police contacted the president of the Roma minority municipality of Ozd, the mayor of Ozd, and the deputy mayor of Ozd, as well as a permanent 24-hour on-site police presence in the victim's residential environment, which continues and lasts as long as necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-110	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I have a completely different experience in Borsod County than what you claim in Parliament. I find that a significant part of the police force's personnel are speeding around on the road as buckslapping cars, but people who live in places don't get any protection, no security. We also talked a lot about topics similar to those of the Secretary of State during the previous term. I think it would be elegant for the Secretary of State to finally accept the opportunity I have suggested to you. I'll rent you an apartment in Somsály or Camp Seven or Hollow Valley. Move there for a week, because believe me, Mr. Secretary, personal experience is priceless. And I think that if you take on this, you will be able to perform your role as Secretary of State much better afterwards, because you see what Hungarian reality is. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-111	Thank you. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-112	Honourable Congressman, It's another party that rents apartments and uses political marketing tools to show the troubles of others. However, I would like to say that we are aware of the situation, we are aware that more needs to be done in order to ensure safety and security in all Hungarian settlements, for all Hungarian citizens, regardless of their racial, religious and ethnic origin. The government, the Home Office and the police are determined to do this. And I am asking, honourable Member, that the legislative proposals that we are putting before this House, which aim to ensure and support this order, security for all. After all, I remember you asking for order in the previous term, but most of the billings did not support it. We hope that we can ensure order and security for all Hungarian citizens both in Ozdon and in all the settlements of the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-113	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " How did the job protection action plan contribute to improving employment? " with the title " Minister Sándor Czomba has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-06-19-114	Yeah.
u2014-06-19-115	Yeah. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-116	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In order to increase the predictability of the tax system, to strengthen the role of simplicity and to protect jobs, an action plan was set up to protect jobs. One of the three pillars of the measure helps employers to retain their employees and employ new workers through tax incentives. Within the framework of the second pillar, two new taxes that did not exist previously, the specific taxes on small-scale taxpayers and the small-scale tax that made the economy white and businesses easier to declare their income. Finally, the third pillar of the action plan helped to facilitate business administration. The benefits and opportunities of the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs clearly help to give priority to people under 25 years of age with less than the EU average, to people over 55 years of age, to unskilled people, to long-term job seekers and to workers with small children. Dear Secretary of State, How will the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs contribute to further reducing unemployment and economic recovery in 2014? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-06-19-117	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-06-19-118	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, there are times when the economy is pulling and employment is about to grow automatically, as economic operators are putting labour needs in order, and there are times when there is also a need to devote considerable energy to preserving jobs. We came out of a period of severe crisis around 2010-11-12. Despite the stagnation of the economy, employment has not only been maintained but also increased in the competitive sector. Different measures had to be used for this. One of the most important, the most significant was the action plan for the protection of jobs, as the problem is not only that there is high unemployment and low employment in Hungary, but also that there are age-related features where there is more trouble than usual. For many decades, we have seen the unemployment rates of people under 25, those over 55 and those without qualifications are much higher than those of others. This is why the Hungarian government has decided to provide effective, effective assistance here. This meant not reducing contributions by 1-2 percentage points, but drastic - we split the charges - and we try, I say, to glue people to their workplaces; it may be figurative, but it is effective. Thank God, this was successful, because if you look at how many people have been used in the past, I can give you data from April 2014: after 839 thousand employers used this type of support, and only in 2013 did employers have 115 billion HUF left with the help of this action plan. Obviously, it cannot be quantified that if this action plan were not, how many people would have been dismissed, but that we could not boast that employment would continue to grow without this action plan, I am quite certain. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-120	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. I believe that the figures also show that the job protection action plan is one of the most important and successful government programmes in recent years. In my own constituencies, many companies and many businesses have used this opportunity, thus keeping many, many jobs. I trust that the government will not merely preserve it in the coming period, but also further develop and perhaps broaden this programme. Of course, the Christian Democrats support the government in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-121	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-06-19-122	Honourable Congressman, Of course, we will continue the program and even expand it. In recent years, we have already taken a very important step in the past year, as we have said that businesses that take up new numbers and wish to employ long-term unemployed people under the age of 25, beginners, we give support for 2+1 years, and not half-sochos, so we do not split it, but pay zero for 2 years, and half-sochos for the third year. [[12.40]] In Hungarian: this program also helps to create new jobs - we talk less about it - 70-80 thousand people found their jobs in the last year and a half. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " What does the agricultural portfolio do to adapt the forestry sector to climate change? " with the title " The Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-06-19-124	Yeah.
u2014-06-19-125	Yeah. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-19-126	Mr President, Dear House, In the last decade and a half, the damage caused by wind storms has increased in our forests. In May 2010, in the Transdanubian Mountains and Nyíres, the cyclon, Zsófia, struck a gross half a million cubic metres of wood, which was close to 10 percent of our country's annual logging. In the spring of 2014, the Mediterranean cyclone Yvette in the Kőszegi Mountains took out 33,000 cubic metres of wood in Bükk and Mátra. In areas affected by storm damage, the typical forms of damage are the splintered, often shattered pieces of wood, the stumps of wood, the woodlings that were damaged under the forest stock, which were crushed by the wooden crowns that fell on them. The number of increased damage is linked to climate change and the natural preservation of forests. Based on the projected climate change trends in Hungary, which may result in an increase in extreme weather conditions, we should expect more frequent and serious damage in the Hungarian forests. At the same time, forest stocks serving the needs of cutting forest management have a simple composition, a low racial diversity, and an age-old forest with a lower environmental stress capacity than natural forests with diverse species and age groups. My question is what specific measures and resources the Ministry of Agriculture is planning in the sector to facilitate the adaptation of our forests to climate change.
u2014-06-19-127	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-06-19-128	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, Thank you for giving us the opportunity to address government efforts in relation to the very important section of the complex climate change issue, the role and adaptation potential of forestry before the Parliament. The old truth is that the land was only borrowed from our grandchildren, and it is the responsibility of the present age to preserve it. That's our job right now. First of all, allow me to point out that the Forest Act declares in its introductory provisions that it will contribute to reducing the effects of climate change by regulating the relationship between forest and society, in particular by setting conditions for sustainable forest management. The conditions for sustainable forest management activities are provided by the State by issuing a so-called forest plan regulation and by drawing up a long-term district forest plan for at least 10 years. The requirements for adaptation to climate change in district forest planning will be developed with the involvement of relevant forest managers, authorities, bodies responsible for managing protected areas, local authorities and civil society organisations established for forestry or nature conservation purposes. The forestry measures of the current, but also of the 2014-20 rural development programme provide the opportunity for the Hungarian forestry sector and our forests to be prepared for the challenges of climate change. Preparing for the impacts of climate change means changing, innovation and supporting investment in farming. Let me also say a few words about targeted interventions in the rural development programme. Forest planting, forest restructuring, restoration of damaged forests, and the forest-environment programme have a key role to play in the long-term capture of greenhouse gases, in mitigating the effects of climate change. What is new in the period 2014-20 is the emergence of interactive innovation cooperation between farmers and research and development workshops, giving even greater scope to exploit the latest scientific results. And we'll continue.
u2014-06-19-129	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2014-06-19-130	Thank you very much. I appreciate the planned measures of the agricultural portfolio, but it does not reveal to me, to us, whether these planned steps can really respond to the damage caused by increased extreme weather conditions. I have not heard from the answer any more concrete plans for the preservation of organic services, so I cannot accept the answer now. Thank you.
u2014-06-19-131	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-132	Allow me to continue, for all the responsibility that today has for the future is on us and, of course, we have in common. As a background institution of the Ministry of Agriculture, the most important priority research area of the Institute of Forestry Science under the National Centre for Agricultural Research and Innovation is the analysis of the impact of climate change on forests, the reduction of adverse impacts, the increase of forest adaptation as far as possible, the development of recommendations on the management of reproductive material and forestry at practical technological level. As a result, the regional extension system, which takes into account the potential impacts of climate change, will be operational in autumn, and will also help agriculture, will be a spatial information-based decision support system. This programme can indicate the expected effects, the necessary measures. The extension of the system at national level is also underway. So we'll work together to work this out as soon as possible. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-133	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Bellozó, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: " Meggy or not sour? " The title is given below. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Gábor István bellozó nods.]] Yeah. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2014-06-19-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In Szabolcs, the purchase of the cherry started at a price of HUF 40-90, which does not even cover the cost of picking. In many places the crops are no longer taken over, so thousands of small farmers cannot sell their crops. Some people say there's no reason for such a low price - carteling. Others say last year's harvest is still in stock, so there's no demand. In addition, size problems also make it difficult to get a good price. One Commissioner, Mr Secretary, that if something does not happen, a significant part of the crop will remain in the tree. Secretary of State, we need to help the farmers now. Get the processors to the negotiating table, start an intervention buy-in if the market has to move. Gyula Budai and President Gyula Budai organized a protest at a price of 150 forints even in the Magos era. Since then Gyula Budai has continued to talk about putting small farmers in position, but instead we see that he has succeeded in destroying and putting friends in position; while there is no real producer protection, the producers have no bargaining power, since the end of the act, a large number of relatively low-powered producers have competed with each other instead of joining forces and acting unitedly on the market. There is insufficient marketing, no market analysis, no proper competition monitoring, no information, and there are no tripartite framework agreements with which a normal price can be fixed before the supermarket chain agreements. Mr State Secretary, it is clear that the players in the market are unable to do so on their own, that the Ministry should do something about this, and that cooperation, the alliances that can otherwise make prosperous family economies in Western Europe competitive.
u2014-06-19-135	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-136	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It is probably also known to you that in Hungary cherry crops account for almost 10 percent of the total fruit production. The production area of the cherry is about 14 thousand hectares, the main production areas are located in Bács-Kiskun, Pest and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county. Due to the favourable weather conditions, there will be an extremely large cherry crop in 2014, which, according to preliminary data, can reach 80-83,000 tonnes. This amount exceeds the 2013 crop by 17 percent and the average of the last five years by around 22 percent and 15-20 thousand tonnes. In addition, the hot weather causes the cherry to mature earlier and in a shorter period, so the product for processing will be constrained in time, which will test the capacities of producers and processors. [[12.50]] All of this has led to the problem that we are now facing. Indeed, you're right, this is the most urgent task the wallet has to solve right now. Of course, increased production volume and other circumstances in market conditions have an impact on producer prices, in particular on the large reduction in sour cherries intended for food processing. According to the current unofficial information, the producer price of the industrial cherry is less than half of the price above 200 HUF/kg last year, between 70 and 100 HUF/kg in the coming weeks. This price covers only part of the cost between HUF 100 and HUF 120, which is why producers are expected to lose money. The reason for the unfavourable price is that, in addition to the high production volume, retail chains and foreign wholesalers' price-cutting strategies are included on the other side as difficulties, which also greatly reduces the room for manoeuvre of domestic processors. We find that while production is cheap and practically expensive for producers, our fellow consumers who want to buy consider the price to be high. There's obviously a need to intervene between the two. I'd be happy to respond to the detailed plan of the wallet in rejoinder. Thank you.
u2014-06-19-137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-06-19-138	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, the problem may be that there are no representatives in the Fidesz fraction who are involved in the cultivation of cherries, because they have been able to overcome the situation of the melon industry. But if we do not want this issue to come forward year after year, then there really should be something to be done about the organisation of producers. And, you know, Secretary of State, we should not be thinking about moving a centralized Ministry, deprived of development resources to Debrecen, but rather thinking about what structure could be used to build those regional centres alongside agricultural universities in Debrecen, Kaposvár or Mosonmagyaróvár, where these centres would be able to organise producers, so that they could have an appropriate representation, so that they themselves could enforce their interests against the prices against purchasers, and that there would be some catching up in the countryside, rather than an increase in employment, rather than this vulnerable situation. Of course, I cannot appreciate your reply.
u2014-06-19-139	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-140	Honourable Congressman, In the last few days, the agricultural portfolio - in view of the situation - has conducted several consultations with the representatives of producers, processors and interest organisations, the National Chamber of Agriculture and interbranch organisations. On the basis of the consultations, a solution for dealing with market tensions seems to be useful in advance, allowing the main part of the surplus production to be temporarily withdrawn from the market in the form of a finished product, mainly a glazed cherry. The solution, while complying with strict quality standards for the finished product, will allow an adequate basis for finding new, mainly eastern markets, establishing a sustainable future market presence, as well as for expanding the export market, which has so far been a one-channel German relationship. The Ministry of Agriculture, without prejudice to natural market conditions and processes, will use the available means to address the disturbances on each product track and to mitigate their consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " Do you consider the nearly six months of delays acceptable in the practice of the Prime Minister's Office? Are you not afraid that the practice of breaching the law will appear at all levels of public administration, as a result of the bad example of the Prime Minister's Office? " with the title " The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to his urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is asking the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-06-19-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the latest issue of the Hungarian Gazette, this decision of the Prime Minister of 48/2014 was published on the dismissal of the Chairman of the Implementation Operational Programme Monitoring Committee and on the appointment of a new President. The decision includes the following: Mr Péter Huba was relieved of the chair of the monitoring committee for the operational programme of implementation with effect from 31 December 2013. I appoint Mr Vera Hebrew, Head of the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme of Implementation, Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme of Implementation with effect from 1 January 2014. In view of the above and of the fact that the decision was published on 3 June 2014 more than five months later than its deadlines, I would like to ask you about the following. Firstly, what legal authority gives anyone the power to terminate or establish any post with retroactive effect? What is the particular reason why the decision in question was delayed for more than five months? Has Péter Huba Bence published any documents as chairman of the monitoring committee for the operational programme of implementation after 1 January 2014? Did the Monitoring Committee meet between 1 January 2014 and 2 June 2014 and, if so, who called it up? After 1 January 2014, did Péter Huba Bence receive any kind of allowance or reimbursement under the current decision, as of his previous position? Did Vera Hebrew receive any money from 1 January 2014 to 2 June 2014 for the performance of her mandate, or did she do any work as Chair of the Monitoring Committee for the Operational Programme of Implementation? I'm asking if they think it's normal, that five months later, they're acquitted, and five months later, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'm being appointed. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-143	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-144	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The implementation of the operational programme monitoring committee's tasks as chairman was ensured during the period from 1 January 2014 to 2 June 2014. The monitoring committee did not hold a meeting during this period and therefore, in the context of its operation, only technical tasks were incurred, which were fully carried out by Vera Hebrew as Deputy Chairman of the previous Monitoring Committee for the operational programme of implementation. Furthermore, the Rules of Procedure of the Implementation Operational Programme Monitoring Committee are 4/9. According to point 2 of the Annex, the co-chair of the Monitoring Committee is the Head of the Managing Authority, which has also been responsible for the management of Vera Hebrew since January 2014. During the period until the appointment of the new President, the tasks were essentially carried out in communication with the members, such as information on the institutional changes and the progress of the implementation operational programme was sent to the members of the Monitoring Committee on 26 March 2014 and on 23 May 2014 the members were invited to the Committee meeting on 13 June 2014 in addition to the necessary preparation. As Chairman of the Monitoring Committee for the Operational Programme of Implementation, Vera Hebrew took action at the first Monitoring Committee meeting on 13 June 2014 and received no allowance for or in connection with the performance of his post or reimbursement of expenses. As Chairman of the Monitoring Committee for the Operational Programme of Implementation, and in connection with this function, he received neither an allowance nor a reimbursement of documents not published after 1 January 2014. Regarding the question of whether this institutional system is performing better, I can say for sure that it is better than the previous bureaucratic system of the NFU. As regards the period 2014-20 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] We are at the forefront of Europe - I think in the second place - in terms of per capita subsidies. Thank you.
u2014-06-19-145	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in return. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am sure that you will appoint people who have special skills for these positions, since, if I understand your reply correctly, Vera Hebrew has performed from January the tasks that she could not have known, as the Gazette shows, since she was only appointed for this post on 3 June 2014, so she started to work here in advance from January onwards, and may have been active, it is true that she did not do much meaningful work then, but she already knew in advance that she would be appointed in June, and that this June appointment entitles her to do her job from January onwards. In fact, Bence Huba could have been this far-sighted, because he had not performed any activity since January, although he was supposedly only relieved of his duties in June, then he became official and appeared in the Gazette, so he knew in advance that he would be exonerated in June. I feel like this is a little confusing for me. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] But I'm sure you think it's normal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.00]]
u2014-06-19-147	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-148	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, It would be a violation if someone had issued me in that position when he was not in that position. That didn't happen. Everyone was expending and taking action when he was in office. And the fact that he did certain communication tasks is a good and natural thing. So one thing we can say for sure is that there was no violation of the law. And by the way, I can only thank you if Congressman draws attention to anomalies. As you can see, we're trying to investigate all of this. But I must stress that there was no violation of the law. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-149	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 13 o'clock, we've reached the end of the immediate questions. We're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: " Has there really been an increase in workers' poverty, millions earn less than six years ago? " with the title " Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2014-06-19-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The situation of people living on wages has deteriorated over the past four years. Their financial situation has become more critical. You can show any statistical sequences here, say gross, gross, how, how - no, no. Net and purchasing power, what's in hand, that's what's important. The minimum living amount is 87,500 forints per person. Let's see where the minimum wage is at 66,500 forints. But the value of this purchasing power compared to 2010 is about 10 percent lower than it was then, worth some HUF 53-54,000. So people who earn minimum wages or those around them are worse off than they were before. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If we look only at the part of micro-enterprises that employ more than five people, then we have the view that, while 18 percent of them made less than the minimum wage before 2010, 25 percent of them today, and then we do not take into account employees under five, it is much worse; APEH statements confirm that around one third of people are looking around the minimum wage. At the time, the OÉT sought to narrow the scissors between the minimum wage net and the minimum wage. The fact is that today a public employee earns 51,000 forints, the minimum living is 87 thousand, 36 thousand. That was 18,000 - it was still a lot - four years ago, but now 36,000. This is what the Orbán government brought. That's the minimum wage. Public employment is not enough to make a decent living. But not only they, but also the civil servants: 4 percent of those who made less than the minimum living before 2010 are now fourfold, and 16 percent of them earn less than the minimum living. It is no coincidence that I attempted to offer Viktor Orbán the opportunity to try to earn a minimum wage of 66 500 forints, because it would result in... I have three simple questions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When will the minimum wage and the minimum wage be minimised? When's the public service salary increase? And when will workers' poverty be eradicated? Mr President, thank you for your grace.
u2014-06-19-151	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-06-19-152	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Let me start with a figure: over the four years between 2007 and 2010, the real value of the net minimum wage decreased every year, with a drop of around 10 percent throughout the cycle. It is a very important step forward that the purchasing power of the minimum wage has already increased in 2013 and 2014 without any family discount, with a family discount of 13 per cent in 2014 for one dependent child and 27 per cent for two dependent children compared to 2010. There is no doubt that the gap between the minimum wage and the minimum wage increased between 2007 and 2012, but it was different between 2007 and 2010, and it was different between 2010 and 2012-2013, when the Hungarian government had to bring the economy out of a crisis and much more, and the catch-up was really slow. But starting in 2013, and I think it is worth concentrating here, there has been a positive turnaround and the catch-up has begun. If nothing else, I'd like to recommend today's KSH data to your attention. Today's KSH says that it has increased by 6.5 percent in the national economy, 5.2 percent in the competition sector, 10 percent in the budget area and 8.4 percent in the non-profit sector. He's asking when he's going to grow in the public sector. There has been a significant increase in the salaries of teachers, the salaries of healthcare workers, the social sector allowance, so in line with our strength, we are trying to do what we do; we know that the minimum wage is low, but we do not want to make the mistake that you have made, that you have grown from credit, and that the minimum wage has actually increased without economic performance, the result of which we saw around 2010. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: " Did Fidesz cheat a country? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-154	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, [[His mic's not working.]]
u2014-06-19-155	Excuse me, and I would like to write your name out to Congressman Zoltán Magyar. [[It's happening.]] There he is. We'll start over. You have the floor.
u2014-06-19-156	Is that okay? [[For signal:]] Now it's good. Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Contrary to those previously communicated, Fidesz practically took on the responsibilities of local earth committees. Among the few forward-looking measures of the Land Traffic Act that I have criticised was the fact that these Land Committees certainly have powers in the case of land change, although these committees may not decide in the same terms and quality as Jobbik would have wanted, but there is no doubt that local farmers could receive powers through the committees. At the same time, the suspicion was confirmed, and at the beginning of the year, the rush within the agricultural chambers made sense - from the district of Mr. Secretary of State, in dozens of settlements, these committees were formed in extremely suspicious circumstances, practically informing only a narrow inner circle when these committees were established - it became clear that Fidesz was not in the mind to entrust the fate of the land to the will of the locals. Jobbik has already drawn attention to the fact that, at government level, they may even speak of the fact that these land committees can be taken seriously if the committees formed under the aegis of the Chamber of Agriculture were not to represent the fake goals which you otherwise communicated. Here I am thinking that, when we raised this problem, why these committees within the Chamber of Agriculture are formed, for example, we have received such ridiculous answers that the cock-cracking must continue to be protected in the countryside, and then these committees will signal to you the problem if they want to silence these cocks somewhere. It has now become clear that the real goal was to bring the decision to the hands of the loyal minority to Fidesz about land change. That is why I ask the Secretary of State when they intend to ensure the operation of the Land Committees under the conditions laid down by law. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-157	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-06-19-158	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, There's a time for everything, everything's coming in its own time. According to the provisions of the Land Traffic Act, farmers, farmers' organisations and other natural and legal persons using land in the administrative territory of the municipality form a local farming community per municipality. The representative body of the local farming community is the local land committee elected from among the members of the community, the establishment and operation of which is not governed by the law, but by a separate government decree. The local land committee shall examine the ownership of the land covered by the law in the administrative area of the municipality in order to pursue the interests of the local farming community in accordance with the land-ownership policy objectives. The rejection decision of the local land committee is binding on the licensing authority, i.e. it has veto rights, but it is essential that local land committees are set up on an unquestioned legal basis. Democratic legitimacy requires that if public power is acquired through a branch of power, it must still be traced back to the sovereign people. The members of the local land committees would have been chosen by farmers using land in the settlement according to the provisions of the Land Traffic Act in force, but the legitimacy of this self-management system cannot be considered complete, since their election cannot be traced back to the entire community of voters of the settlement. [[13.10]] In contrast to this system, it is a constitutional solution, as well as a reassuring solution for the EU, for farmers in the settlement to participate in the election of members of the local land committee, but the election itself and the mandate of public authority have already become the responsibility of local bodies of representatives elected by voters. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] However, this shows that once the law is adopted, the issue can then be resolved. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture: " What does the government do to reduce effectively the pollution of particulate matter affecting the Hungarian population? " with the title " Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2014-06-19-160	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Only HUF 54 million is included in this year's budget to reduce particulate matter and PM10 pollution, while substantial interventions would obviously require billions of dollars in expenditure. Meanwhile, we are currently facing infringement proceedings against our country due to regular border crossings. Studies show that more than 16,000 premature deaths and up to a million diseases each year can be blamed for particulate matter pollution. The problem has been growing in recent years due to the economic crisis, high fuel prices and the spread of so-called mixed fuel boilers. In order to reduce heating and waste transport costs in boilers suitable for the co-incineration of solid fuel, so to speak, all household waste is fired. This practice is clearly illegal - according to the relevant Government Decree on Air Quality Protection, only wood and paper waste must be burned outside of commercial fuels in the home stove - but municipalities do not have the means or capacity to control it, and there are hardly any examples of imposing hundreds of thousands of penalties in principle. Contaminants, especially during windy, cloudy winters, can cause serious damage to health in the short term. During domestic combustion of plastics alone, more than 200 types of carcinogens are produced, the most dangerous dioins and furans may leave chimneys up to a hundred times the health limit. We are therefore asking the competent minister when he plans to act effectively to reduce particulate matter effectively, and when the government will provide the necessary financial and institutional means to do so.
u2014-06-19-161	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-06-19-162	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, Despite all the contrary rumors, air quality data clearly show that there is a definite improvement in Hungary's air quality. Based on the measurement results of the test stations, it can be concluded that there was no annual excess particulate matter in 2012 or 2013. Of the main sources of emissions, only domestic solid combustion continues to be characterised by an upward trend in Hungary, while the other main source of pollution, transport emissions, has decreased, i.e. government efforts so far have been effective. At the same time, the complexity of the situation is highlighted by the fact that 70-80 percent of the PM10 pollution in Hungary is caused by air pollution sources beyond the border. So it is not enough to reduce particulate emissions at home, but we also need to act at international level to achieve this. Madam President, you are wrong about the amount of resources available to reduce pollution in this year's budget. Based on the action programme to reduce PM10 emissions, the source mentioned by you is not intended to carry out the annual scheduled tasks of the entire programme, but only the agricultural portfolio. The Ministry of National Development, which is responsible for carrying out tasks, envisages an annual resource for a number of measures required in the transport area, which are the main focus of the programme. Measures to improve air quality include the modernisation of energy efficiency investments and district heating systems, bypass construction, replacement of local bus stocks, limitation of burning of avar and garden waste, and energy efficiency renovation of thousands of homes. Several large-scale transport development investments have taken place in Budapest. It also serves to present energy efficiency measures [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] a report drawn up at the end of last year, which is publicly available on the PM10 programme website. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás László, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: " When is the right-hand section of the M3 noise barrier expected to be built? " with the title " Mr Tamás László has the floor.
u2014-06-19-164	Dear Secretary of State, The opening phase of the M3 in Budapest was built in 1979, which cut a wedge between the residential areas of Rákospalota, including the MÁV site, which is protected by the capital, and is indeed a residential area worth a better fate. This highway makes it easier to enter the city, but with this ever-increasing traffic route, people are faced with huge noise, smell and dust loads. The M3 motorway is the city highway managed by the Municipality of Budapest. From the beginning of the 1990s, the capital plans to mitigate and remedy environmental damage, but because of the constant lack of money, it was only possible in 2009, but mostly in 2010, after the establishment of the second Orbán government. At that time, the Norwegian fund, combined with the two districts concerned, received almost HUF 800 million. Annex XV is amended as follows: In the district, however, the construction of the noise barrier wall on the right side of the noise wall, between Wesselényi út and Szentmihályi út, failed in the resistance of seven entrepreneurs, besides assisting the then city leadership. The lack of walls is seriously affecting the residents, causing health damage. In 2011, a survey was carried out on one of the affected properties on Gábor Áron Street. And here the sound pressure level was 72 decibels per day, 68 decibels per night, so the day was seven times past 13 decibels per day. In 2011, the district municipality proposed to update the expired building permit of the noise protection wall and assigned it a source. In 2012, he offered a significant amount of HUF 200 million to the capital with real estate remuneration. In the 2014 budget, we contributed to the design of the noise wall with a net HUF 5 million [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And we intend to spend 50 million forints on passive noise protection. So you can see we're starting over and over again. My question to the Secretary of State: when is the construction of the right-hand section of the M3 noise barrier expected?
u2014-06-19-165	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-06-19-166	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I agree with your suggestion. On both sides of the opening phase of the M3 in Budapest, it would be appropriate to build the noise shielding wall. I also consider the need for development to be justified in addition to the fact that the freight traffic of the motorway section has been substantially reduced as a result of the continuous development of the M0 ring. The budget line "Works of the EU Member States for noise mapping" within the scope of the development portfolio may cover the preparation of noise protection action plans as an EU obligation. On the domestic motorways and main roads of the so-called TEN-T international transport network, we launched the noise shielding wall construction programme from the sources of the New Széchenyi Plan. The budget of 1.2 billion HUF makes it possible to build a wall with a surface area of about 27 thousand square meters, including the M3 motorway at Peanut and Gödöllő. However, the M3 introduction, owned by the Metropolitan Municipality, is not part of the TEN-T network, and therefore, under EU funding rules, similar investment cannot be supported here with a Community contribution. Specific resources are available for road management tasks on municipal roads, and the development and maintenance of roads owned and managed by municipalities must be financed by the owner. Moreover, the government has not yet set the targets for the use of EU funds, the ranking and timing of a number of transport and environmental projects prepared by the Metropolitan Municipality is necessary on the ground. I hope that there will also be central resources for these, by the way. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2014-06-19-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is Hungary now re-qualified by the World Health Organization? " with the title " Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2014-06-19-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary, the number of people suffering from hepatitis A, i.e. infectious hepatitis, has increased seven times over the last two years. This sad fact is already drawn to our attention by yellow billboards. This hepatitis is one of the most known infectious diseases. Our country's epidemiological situation is also deteriorating as poverty is increasing. At the same time as destroying the social network, it seems that the public health system has also been successfully destroyed. In the last two years, the incidence of hepatitis A diseases has become much more common, and the risk of infection with the virus has also been increased. It is now recommended that everyone be vaccinated against hepatitis A. Unfortunately, due to the deteriorating public health situation, Hungary was relegated to the mid-infected countries by the World Health Organisation in January 2014. The government's doing better in this, too. The former world-class Hungarian public health system has been reduced to mediocre by the Fidesz government. During the incubation period of the disease, asymptomatic virus carriers can easily infect their environment without realizing it, so that an epidemic can easily develop. The virus can spread quickly in kindergartens, schools, public bathrooms, mass events, public institutions. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State how many preschoolers have been infected with hepatitis A in the last two years. The question of which infectious diseases have increased in recent years, and in which counties are the most widespread, is inevitably raised. How much more do you want to spend on public health and the fight against infectious diseases in the next year's budget compared to this year? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-169	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-06-19-170	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, 10 of the 50 most infecting diseases have increased their infection, their prevalence, while 40 of them, such as TB, have decreased. So he's down to 40, and there's 10 of them that have increased infection. At the same time, this is not Hungary-specific, as the type of reclassification that the representative woman said does not only apply to Hungary, but all the Central European countries have been transferred just as much as Hungary. This rating is therefore not about the government at all, but about a trend in Central Europe, which has its reasons. Because earlier, when there was a relatively large number of diseases in the 1980s, they acted very strongly against this, which is why the number of these diseases decreased, and in the later growing young people, since they had no longer met this virus, they did not even develop immunity in contrast. That's why it's cyclically, sometimes it comes back and forth. But this is not a big deal, although it must be clearly addressed: 274 are the number of preschoolers and elementary school children who have fallen ill. That is what she asked; and where is the most common: in 2012 in Budapest and in 2013 in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County was the most common infection. Obviously, the government is also trying to counter this, and I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that not only the Hungarian government, but also the Polish, Slovak, Czech or Croatian governments are taking action against this. What you referred to was the WHO 2012 map, and it was first published in a 2010 magazine, which presented the conditions between 1990 and 2005. And the advertisements you refer to are obviously not made by the government, but by a company; obviously you want to increase your profits, but you are promoting your own product. But I'm sure everyone can get more information from their own doctor. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Defence: "Does the government offer a military alliance to Ukraine to facilitate a peaceful settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict? " with the title " Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2014-06-19-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Last week it was published that the Chiefs of Staff of the Visegrád countries welcomed Ukraine's intention to join the v4 battle group to be set up for 2016. Chief of Staff Tibor Benkő also stated that military leaders recommend to the political leaders of the v4 countries that Ukraine be officially invited to join the battle group in order to carry out joint defence tasks. Hungary has offered 670 soldiers to the military unit, which will operate on the base of Polish ground command as planned. According to Jobbik, since Ukraine, unlike the Visegrád countries, is not a member of NATO, its involvement in such cooperation would threaten to bring Hungary back into an extremely dangerous conflict because of foreign interests and completely unnecessary. This treaty would have insurmountable consequences for the stability and security of our country, including Central Europe. This military alliance is an open threat to Russia and clearly serves the expanding policy of the United States. Dear Minister, Last time he answered a question, he said: " Do not, if possible, involve the Hungarian Defence Forces in the Ukrainian crisis, even at the level of mention. Hungary is interested in and intends to contribute to a peaceful political solution to the crisis. " Well, it seems that it is not me or Jobbik that the government itself wants to interfere with the Ukrainian crisis, and by taking a seriously irresponsible step that will lead to confrontation with Russia or lead to confrontation with Russia. So I ask you, Minister, do you think it will facilitate a peaceful settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict by offering our country a military alliance to Ukraine. Minister, please stick to the groundwork, as you said last week, to ensure a peaceful settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, and not to conclude similar military cooperation agreements with any opposing party. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-173	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2014-06-19-174	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reiterate my earlier request. I would ask you, if possible, not to involve the Hungarian Defence Forces in the Ukrainian crisis, even at the level of the mention. And now the answer to your questions. 1. Our country does not offer a military alliance to Ukraine. 2. The Visegrád 4 battle group is not set up within the framework of NATO, but within the framework of the European Union, and as such it has nothing to do with the United States. 3. The Visegrad 4 Battle Group is neither a threat to scale nor a threat to Russia in terms of time, as it is a battalion-sized task force, and it will only be created for one semester to carry out possible EU tasks. 4. The declaration of intent to set up a combat group was signed long before the Ukrainian-Russian crisis in 2011, and Ukraine indicated its wish to participate two years ago in 2012. So it's clear that it has nothing to do with the current crisis, nor can it be about the current crisis. And I could tell you more. Dear fellow Member, However, I would like to ask you again, if you come up with the same conspiracy theory every week, then every week I will ask you not to involve the Hungarian Defence Forces in the Ukrainian crisis, if possible, even at the level of mention. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]]
u2014-06-19-175	Thank you very much, Minister. There may be one more question. Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence: " Was the four - party discussion just the set of a propaganda action? " The title is given below. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2014-06-19-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In May 2013, you discussed the purchase of new transport helicopters and rigid wing transport machines with the professional politicians of the parliamentary parties. The day before the meeting on Hír TV said that the tender for the helicopter purchase will be announced by the new government taking office after the elections in mid-2014, which, right now, will be able to decide with a button on which offer to accept. Despite the professional and political consensus and the great announcements of the Patros, nothing happened the way Minister promised a year ago. [[13.30]] The tender for the purchase of flights was cancelled in the summer of 2013 while nothing was heard about the helicopter tender. Minister, you promised to buy modern military technology in a transparent, fair trial. Instead, a few days before the elections, the biggest secretly, they bought old Soviet helicopters. I think that at least makes it questionable how serious the government's intention to acquire new helicopters, which has previously been said so much, can be taken seriously. That is why I ask, Minister, whether the plans presented were indeed sound, or whether the four-party consultation was merely the setting of a propaganda action. If there were indeed serious and well-founded plans, what unforeseen obstacles have deterred the government from obtaining a flight and preparing a helicopter tender? I ask with great respect, Minister, unlike the practice of the last four years, not to cloud me, but to mark a specific date, when the certain button pressure that you have mentioned will take place and when the promised instruments will finally be added to the defence. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-06-19-177	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2014-06-19-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to reassure the Member that the plans for the development of our defence capabilities remain on a secure basis, as the will set out in the 2012 Government Decision remains unchanged, so that from 2016 at the latest, we will gradually increase our defence budget and implement the 10-year development plan of the Hungarian Defence Agency, which NATO has fully accepted. This plan is sincere and credible, as were the discussions mentioned by the Congresswoman, which I am sure your fellow parties have reported to you, even if you now suggest the opposite. During the four-party negotiations, we shared the otherwise non-public information with you, outlined the options and made it clear what conditions should be met to achieve the procurement. In the period since then, the defence wallet has done all the necessary professional preparation, with new opportunities and new aspects. They are currently being considered, precisely so that the government can make a prudent and responsible decision on these extremely high-profile and very material issues. Of course, the creation of an appropriate financing framework is not a negligible aspect. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As soon as all the conditions are met, the government will take the necessary decisions, which I will inform you of immediately. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-179	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, The list of questions is closed. We will move on to the next agenda. A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the structure of the government will follow until closure. The submission is T/263. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that Mr Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-06-19-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government has submitted its second bill on government architecture. The logical order of legislation relating to the formation of a new government was built from three steps. The law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary presented by Viktor Orbán and Zsolt Semjén was the first step, which laid the foundations for the structure of the new government by defining the ministries of Hungary. As a second element, the Act amending individual laws in conjunction with the Law on the Listing of Ministries of Hungary established the necessary legal bases for the establishment of a new government, in particular the termination of the Prime Minister's Office as a former sui generis fiscal and administrative legal body and the creation of a new ministry. The bill before us is aimed, as a third step, at amendments relating to government restructuring which are based on a government decree designating the powers and responsibilities of the members of the government. In several cases, the Government's so-called Statute decree sets out the tasks and powers of individual members of the Government in a different way from those of previous legislation, sometimes by merging or decoupling certain tasks and powers. Dear House, I suggest that we consider some of the examples set out in the bill. The Statute defines the responsibility for the protection of archaeological heritage and historical values and the responsibility for culture as part of the new responsibilities for the protection of cultural heritage; the responsibility for promoting social equality and the responsibility for the social integration of the Roma has been included in the responsibility for social inclusion; the new responsibility for public procurement has been introduced; or some tasks relating to the public service career, which fall under the responsibility for administrative quality policy and staff policy, have developed a new autonomous responsibility. These changes should be reflected, mutatis mutandis, in relevant legislative regulations and laws. The bill concerns changes in powers in the context of certain legislation, such as winding up, winding up, technical notification, agri-rural development aid financed from EU funds, administrative procedures or the codification of legislation on information technology, for example. There is a significant change in the allocation, clearing of greenhouse gas emission allowances in Europe for the EU ETS, changes in the tasks of running the emissions trading scheme, and changes in the sales and sales revenues of EU legislation and Kyoto Protocol emission allowances, which include the related tasks and powers under the responsibility of the Minister for Public Finance in charge of the Energy Policy. But here I could mention the amendment of the Act concerning the Hungarian Development Bank, and the Act on State Property, as well as the Law on Forest, Forest Protection and Forestry, which aims to change the person entitled to exercise the rights of the owner in respect of certain state companies. In the future, with regard to the Hungarian Development Bank and Magyar Posta, the state's ownership rights will be exercised by the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office and, in respect of forestry companies, by the Minister responsible for forestry. Dear House, In this context, it is therefore inevitable that legislation at the statutory level should also provide the legal framework that the Statute for the purpose of carrying out government work, the division of tasks and powers, has been allocated to the members of the government. The current bill will amend all laws and legislative decrees that need to be amended in the context of changes in the tasks and powers of individual members of the government. Accordingly, the regulatory scope of the bill is significantly heterogeneous, whose regulation in a single law is justified from a norm-economic point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the above, it can be seen that, as the law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary and the law on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary are simplification, transparency and more precise, if you would like, in the direction of a sharper division of tasks and powers, the current bill, following this direction, seeks to establish the necessary legal basis at the statutory level of the legal system. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2014-06-19-181	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-182	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State also touched on the need to amend certain laws in the context of government restructuring, and I will therefore, of course, not take advantage of the time frame available to me, but, as a key speaker, I would also like to make a point, in a few sentences, about the Government's bill submitted in mid-June to settle, at the same time as the government's restructuring, the legislative amendments necessary to harmonise the tasks and powers of certain laws. In my opinion, the proposal before us does not require a lengthy hearing because on 26 May 2014 the Parliament adopted a bill listing the ministries of Hungary prior to the submission of the proposal. Under the authority of the law, the Government regulates the tasks and powers of its members in its original legislative powers. The creation of the regulation is also special because, unlike previous case-law, the Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law of Hungary, gives the government the opportunity not to tie matters related to the organisation to an external factor, but to regulate in its own jurisdiction what is the task, duty and responsibility of which ministry. This is particularly important, since the Fundamental Law positions the government not only in the organisation of the state, but also within the executive authority as the main body of the administration. And for responsible care associated with a complex and comprehensive task, it is essential to have the freedom to develop an effective and rational system of organisations. With the freedom granted by the Fundamental Law and in compliance with the requirements of the proposal adopted on 26 May, the Government established a regulation governing the tasks and powers of its members, which entered into force on 6 June 2014 by 152/2014 on the tasks and powers of the members of the Government. Government Decree No. 1. And with this, the government's operating order has been established, if you will, its statute. It is therefore essential that, after the adoption of the Statute, the proposed legislation under discussion is adopted. The proposal was submitted with the aim of ensuring consistency between the various laws. In the case of the provisions governing the new division of tasks, in several cases, it sets out the tasks and powers of the members of the Government, as laid down in the Government Decree on the tasks and powers of individual ministers and the Secretary of State leading the Prime Minister's Office, which were adopted in 2010. In order to avoid collisions, it is essential to implement the amendments and to carry them through in an appropriate manner. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support this proposal in order to ensure the functioning of the government. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-183	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable opposition majority! We are talking here in front of Parliament about a law that will practically determine in the next four years what the structure of the government looks like, and which minister, which ministry will be responsible for, who will decide the fate of the people, the fate of the specialties in this country. At the debate of this law, about 8-9 pro-government representatives are lurking in the room and a piece of State Secretary represents the Hungarian government. And we could say that this says a lot about Parliament's current state, but if we are honest, it is also contributed that the media that provides the Hungarian public is not particularly interested in such debates either, as we can see, in themselves, even though it would hardly be possible for such a serious law to be debated in such circumstances, if the Hungarian public forced to have substantive and serious debates in this House and at least have consequences for such an image in public. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the publication of a government decree defining the tasks and powers of individual ministers and reading the bill before us, there can be no doubt for anyone today who will perform the day-to-day operational management of the Hungarian state in the coming years. Already in the debate of the Law on the Listing of Ministries, I drew attention to the fact that this person will indeed be the powerful Lord of the Prime Minister's Office, János Lázár. What was likely at the time has now become a certainty, with the Prime Minister's Office all power factors will be concentrated, politically significant decision-making powers. In a normally functioning rule of law, the Prime Minister's Office is responsible for coordinating government activities. However, János Lázár will be the minister responsible for the organisation, development and staff policy of the administration and the member of the government responsible for the legal oversight of local authorities. He will also be responsible for the use of EU funds, agricultural, rural development, R &amp; D and technological innovation, construction, urban development, settlement planning and coordination of science policy. He will also regulate public procurement, manage civil intelligence, and even fight for the protection of cultural heritage. This amazingly wide portfolio was compiled from certain tasks of the former Ministry of Administration and Justice, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of National Economy. The bill will even hand over a task from the State Department. According to this, János Lázár will be responsible for organising the Prime Minister's travel abroad. In the light of previous experience, we hope that the booking and the selection of rooms will not be arranged by him. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] It is clear that János Lázár took all political, power - essential powers, while the Prime Minister's Office gained as much weight as the fairytale ball. So what we have already warned you about in the debate on the law listing ministries has happened. From the central bodies to the smallest district office, the entire administrative apparatus was placed under the manual control of the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office. Moreover, power over the government is associated with power over thousands of billions of development resources. János Lázár is entitled to decide on the payment of both EU development funds and rural development aid, and through the bill, the National Development Bank will be placed under his supervision. He will be the person who decides what can be built and what isn't in this country in the years ahead. In view of this, it is logical that the Prime Minister's Office has become the head of the Government responsible for building instead of the Minister of the Interior. Of course, it is also important to be careful that not only the winners of the awarded investments, but also their contractors, such as the operators of the tramps, will also be called János Lázár, the Minister responsible for public procurement. [[13.50]] Unfortunately, the time may come very soon when the masses of Hungarian voters can experience the consequences of individual decision making without any dialogue. Such a consequence could be the loss of billions of Norwegian funds, or even the complete closure of Metro 3. In this case, hundreds of thousands of passengers on subway replacement buses will thank you every day for the thoughtful development policy. Let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, one person will be unable to see through this gigaministry. This is an impossible task even if John Lazarus is undoubtedly one of Fidesz's most talented solvers, so to speak. After all, he is the politician who won even the recognition of OTP leader Sándor Csányi through the exemplary conduct of the tobacco market restructuring, commonly known as the trafikmutyi. Despite the Minister's personal qualities, this opaque, over-centralized structure will inevitably lead to cases and projects being lost, entire administrative areas being paralyzed. A series of historical and international experiences demonstrate that it is impossible to effectively control all areas of life from a single administrative centre. It is assumed that the leaders of Fidesz are aware of this harmful side effect. This leads to the question of why they chose this governance structure. The answer is depressingly prose: they want to replace the administration of the democratic rule of law with a new pro-state administration with the sole aim of enforcing the economic and political interests of Fidesz. The key to this new pro-state administration is the Prime Minister's Office, confirmed by the bill before us. Through this, Fidesz can enforce its will in any corner of the country. If the cost of this is further deterioration in the efficiency of the public administration, the number of projects that have been lost, and the number of investments that have failed, then this price will be paid to Hungarian citizens instead. Obviously, and this is further confirmed in the bill before us by the fact that in addition to the Prime Minister's Office, the other ministries are merely acting as executives. In light of this, it is understandable why Mr Orbán said at the presentation of ministers that, I quote, " High Schools and recognized expertise alone do not provide a legal basis for participation in government power, nor does it provide a legal basis for participation in government work, i.e. it does not provide a legal basis for leading the country. " Well, the slavish execution of the Fidesz Party Centre's orders through the Prime Minister's Office does not require any outstanding skills, high schools and expertise. Slavery, unconditional obedience, the complete execution of political instructions without thinking. The government of Viktor Orbán does not need professionals, but political commissaries. If we look at the State Secretarys of the Orbán government, there are about 55 people - I say once again, 55 people! - on the list, it's basically a Fidesz cadaver cemetery we can see. The bill before us serves the purpose of displaying this infinitely centralised, distorted structure in individual sectoral laws. We cannot go without saying that the amendments to the legislation contained in the proposal are necessary because the powers and tasks of ministers have been established by ignoring all the existing legal barriers. It also shows that ministers were not appointed to solve the tasks required by sectoral laws, but were assigned to the persons themselves. As I explained, the number one aspect of the selection could be the powers that John Lazarus wants for himself. So this bill could be called lex-Lazar. However, this should not mislead anyone. The new governance structure can easily tempt us to draw false conclusions. Let's not let ourselves be blinded. Yes, indeed, it will be John Lazarus, who will decide on day - to - day government matters. Yes, he will be the one who opens or closes money taps, who organizes and closes institutions, appoints and rescues leaders. De facto, he will be Prime Minister of Hungary. But no one thinks that Viktor Orbán will quietly retire in the meantime, do they? No, not at all. The new governance structure is not about János Lázár, but about Viktor Orbán. This is about Viktor Orbán trying to deceive the whole country by using the classic "good cop, bad cop " trick. While János Lázár does the day-to-day government work and takes the blame for any unpopular action, Viktor Orbán can play the role of a genuinely compassionate, vigilant, gracious leader. It will soon become clear to everyone, which I also drew attention to at the Parliament meeting last month. Viktor Orbán does not want to be Prime Minister of this country, but is preparing for a different role. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-19-185	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the KDNP Group if someone would like to present the group's position. [[No one's reporting.]] No. I give the floor to Csaba Gyure, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-186	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have come to a law that would theoretically be a technical piece of legislation that would be put before us and then voted nicely. If we look at it, obviously every government, when it is formed, has the right to have the head of the government, the Prime Minister, define the tasks and powers that will be fulfilled by its ministers in the new government. Obviously, it is transforming it, taking into account the experience so far, and in this case also in the case of a two-thirds parliamentary majority of four years, this government can obviously be transformed and new tasks and powers are emerging. To this end, the new legislation governing the tasks and powers of the members of the government will be adopted, which is 152/2014. The Statute of the Government of 6 June 2006 which entered into force on that day. There is a very strange legal situation when this legislation is born, as a government decree is supposed to encourage the legislator, the Parliament, to adapt its laws, that is to say the laws, so in this case the law must be adapted to a government decree. In other words, there is a reverse mechanism, since we are adapting legislation to the government regulation, and it is the legislator's quasi-obligatory duty to change the legislation accordingly. This is what this legislation is all about in the present case, and that is why it would be technically implementing, since the implementation of the provisions of the Government Decree is taking place, replacing the appropriate words, the appropriate powers and the appropriate areas of competence. Actually, that's it. However, it is clear that we are accustomed to the legislative work of the majority of governments, that we will not always meet only in such an amendment, which is the purpose of the law. In the present case, the purpose of the amendment would clearly be to define these tasks and powers. Nevertheless, we are used to constantly getting salad laws, and so we meet in this law something that may not belong here. In particular, issues relating to government offices, government officials, his position, employment and relations are regulated here, which, in my view, does not in any way fit the legislative will to establish this legislation. The leading speaker before me has already explained in detail the problems that we have encountered and the problems we have encountered before, in the formation of the government. It is clear that anyone who analyses this change of legislation will obviously be aware of the changes and will not be able to see what kind of ministry and which minister's role is growing, how certain powers and opportunities are transferred from one ministry to another. We can clearly say that this legislation, too, is a spectacular increase in the potential, the powers and the authority of the Prime Minister's Office. This clearly shows the strengthening of the Ministry led by János Lázár and the concentration of tasks that take place with this legislation and with the entry into force of the Statute, Government Decree 152/2014. [[14.00]] Here we can see that transfers from virtually all areas are made to this Ministry, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, so that the responsibility for previous EU funds, which has been done so far, is added to many others. In fact, much of this legislation is just about the new areas in which the role of the distribution of money and the role of supervision are transferred to the Prime Minister's office. For example, here we have a longer meeting with the role, powers, not only in the banking sector, but also in the agricultural-rural development sector, but also in other professional areas, such as the declaration of protection of archaeological sites, the protection of historic values and countless other areas that have so far belonged to the supervision of a sectoral minister. They will be removed from this place by some concentration of power and placed under the authority of the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. By doing so, a superministery will be created, which will exercise control in all sectors, which could even be called the Shadow Prime Minister's Presidency within the Prime Minister's Office, which puts the Prime Minister in practically prime minister's power, mandate and legal practice. With this spectacular concentration of power, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary cannot agree in any way. We have already expressed and expressed in our previous speeches on this issue, when it comes to the list of ministries and their powers and responsibilities, we have already expressed our criticism in this respect, and we see from the other speeches here that all the opposition parties in Parliament are most opposed to this. In addition, as I said, this law is not only about tasks and powers, but also involves a certain role of salad law, since it also deals with the heads of county and capital government offices and their legal status. Well, we can see that here, in some ways, it is transforming the former regulations, the role of the heads of government agencies and extending its mandate to the transitional period. Obviously, this has the importance of ensuring that government offices do not remain unleaded even if, for some reason outside them, the mandate of the heads of government offices is terminated, and obviously, in this case, there is also a need for legislation to maintain the administration of government offices. In addition, we could say that such a legal case may, of course, occur at any time when it is necessary to apply, so the urgency of this could even be understood - and put into another legislation. But in addition to saying that there will be no severance pay if the head of the government office ceases to have a legal relationship, we can see that the financial arrangements are well managed by this law, since he already says that he will be entitled to an allowance equal to his six-month salary in the case of a three-year term term of government administration, so he virtually states that he will not be entitled to a salary for severance and discharge. So you say this, and it's even nice and it sounds like that the head of a government office, if he loses his legal status, doesn't have to go, but it's replaced by the rule that he's entitled to six months of this kind of allowance. The law also regulates that if you have been in a legal relationship for at least one year, in which case half of it will be the benefit you will be entitled to in this case. So the legislation is constantly going into issues that are relevant to government agencies, not the powers and responsibilities. So I must also note here that the salad law-like legislation that we have become accustomed to over the past four years seems to continue to follow the work of the legislator for the next four years, and we will continue to receive these draft laws in the same way as we have been used to. We cannot therefore support this draft legislation on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-06-19-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we have received a salad law, which, in principle, serves the purpose of putting the new government structure into shape according to the government's own ideas, but as the salad laws are usually with you, they seem to be mere technical modifications. I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that the LMP has not been distracted by the paragraph which creates a particularly serious situation, which I will also talk about in my speech. But first, let me stress two things. One: I remember that when the first news of how you would like to govern in your second term came out, we formulated certain criticisms. We've been right about everything we've said, and everything we've said is that you're even more opaque and less accountable than your predecessors, and I could say that you're just like yourself. So I was right: the third Orbán government will certainly be worse than the second Orbán government. Now, with the structure that you have dreamed of, and which you will certainly carry through by two thirds, you will serve one purpose: as few distractions as possible can disturb your country, do not disturb you here from the opposition, do not be disturbed by the press or by the voters. Orbán, by the way, quoted US President Lincoln precisely, but completely unfoundedly, a few days ago, an empty phrase from you is that they would govern from the people, from the people and not from the people. This is more about the fact that over the past four years you have created a parallel reality, and now you are creating such a parallel government accordingly. Now, this people will meet at most infinity - or never. I also said that it would be no good for John Lazarus to be at the center of this government. I called him the PM, and yesterday I was a little ballerina on my Facebook page, and not just because it turned out he was spending too much time and public money traveling. János Lázár embodys what you are about to do here in the next period, because since János Lázár is growing stronger, there has been a lot of weakening, which is important for us: civil society is weakening, the press is weakening, and all the people, businesses that can make improvements in this country based on EU funds and can only make investments from EU developments; but Budapest is also weakening, and people who travel by public transport are also weakening, although I assume that János Lázár does not use public transport. Still, I think there's a few things to consider about his politics. And, of course, the other ministers are weakening their position here, and I can't say that this is just their power problem. No, this is a country's problem, simply because it affects all the people and organisations that need to be negotiated with these ministers. Although sectoral actors, interest representatives or local governments, ultimately zombie ministers of zombie ministries are sitting there, and those who will make decisions here will be János Lázár and their usual oligarchs behind him. By the way, this bill further strengthens János Lázár, the loser this time is the Ministry of National Development, as the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office will have the power to exercise the ownership rights of the Hungarian Development Bank, the Magyar Posta, which otherwise belongs to the State. Not to mention that János Lázár will also be the owner of the specialized responsibility for public procurement. How worrying this is, by the way, after the last cycle, the buddies and business partners, the computer and traffic laws, it may not have to be explained in any particular way. We have talked many times, and we will also talk about the fact that if you want to erect a statue of unscrupulousness, say, here in Kossuth Square, it should definitely be represented by János Lázár. By the way - and I will get to it here - if we read this proposal carefully, we can also get answers to some of the questions that have attracted the attention of many of us here in the LMP in recent weeks. [[14.10]] There was a motion for an LMP, which was specifically about banning state, municipal, public-owned companies to sign with offshore companies or to receive EU subsidies for such companies. You voted against that. We thought, once again, that Fidesz didn't really want to drive off the offshore knights. Then there's this proposal. I thought they'd stop here, with this shame, but no! A salad law has now been presented here, in which 82. In paragraph 82, another mine was planted, and it turned out that it was exactly the 82nd. Because of the article - and I would like to recommend the explanation attached to it - it simply turns out that you are now amending the law in order to make it easier for offshore companies to come here. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is about the fact that you have now formed a law to deal with companies with completely unclear and opaque backgrounds. I have to say, nothing here is sacred to you now, this is total unscrupulousness. What's this about? This proposal also amends the Public Finance Act, and we have this incriminated 82. §, which reads in the explanatory memorandum that in order to conclude external economic contracts that are particularly beneficial to the State - I have quoted this literally - they allow the State to grant budget support with a specific decision to an organisation which is not an organisation which is exceptionally transparent. Although it is necessary to undertake certain transparency indexings and the contract itself will enter into force later, it is still a hard-core acceleration procedure, and it is here that the support will be granted to the organisation when it is not considered transparent, so it can be judged. What do you think? So they also override their own former thoughts and put accelerations in a completely mine-like salad law that we can't think of. Now I would like to ask the Secretary of State which company we are talking about. Tell me, quite frankly, which company you want to favor with this amendment of the law we are dealing with, specifically, with a tailor-made law. Look, in this country, it's almost not seven that Fidesz doesn't present to Parliament, in the form of a ministerial or individual motion, a bill tailored to a friend or an enemy. For example, there is the advertising tax, and it is only one of these tailor-made laws that TV2 benefits from. That's what you guys do all the time. The biggest problem with this is that you are ensuring that private interests are constantly and unhindered in the public interest. I could say that if the public interest, as such, is an unpleasant obstacle to you being able to make a deal, there is no doubt that behind this salad, at least behind this paragraph, you are simply thinking of eliminating this obstacle, changing the law. You govern, amend the rules so that what was still illegal yesterday cannot be illegal tomorrow, quite simply solved, there are two-thirds of them, they can do so. Now, let's go a little further. I would like to know, Mr Secretary of State, what you consider to be a particularly advantageous foreign trade treaty and what exactly the individual case means for you. That support for organisations that are not exceptionally transparent can be judged precisely we, we say, obviously do not want to be detailed, but that if you could give me some information about this, I would be interested to hear it. And I would also like to know on what basis and according to what objective criteria you will determine what constitutes a particularly advantageous contract in this country under this law, who will benefit from this contract, and what criteria will allow this organisation to proceed with this exceptional procedure. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, which company you want to favour, who is the lucky beneficiary. Which lobby did you guys have? Who made this bill? I could ask you, whose interests Hungary's government is now being adapted to. Whose government is this? - I'm going to ask you the question, after all. Is it the Hungarian people's or the ones who pay more? The day before yesterday, the Russians, yesterday's turquoise, tomorrow's investors, who's it gonna be the day after tomorrow? Tell me honestly, who will be able to enter into a particularly advantageous foreign trade contract with? We sell to him a few hundred, a few thousand, who knows how many rights he will deprive Hungarian workers who, thanks to your labour code, have already been replaced by assembly plants in Hungary today, we have become gears, we are disposable at any time, because that is what your labour code is all about. I think that this salad law and this paragraph and this justification are educational examples of how you think about the country, how you think about our future. I think that this kind of centralized power, in which, as the centre of a net, they put János Lázár as a spider, is a perfect model of what you want to do with this country. You want you to be able to shop quietly, no one can by any chance interfere with your business, which is done behind the back of the Hungarian people. However, Honourable Secretary of State, you can count on one thing: we will be there, we will read through the laws, we will think through the laws, and we will be very much on it for the next four years so that they cannot get away with this. Once again, you will not be able to win an election, once again this line, which was sold to the people in 2014, will not be able to, and the Hungarian people will note it. You can be sure you won't get a gesture like this again, so pay close attention to what you're doing, because while LMP is here in this House, we're gonna be looking very closely at you. Thank you.
u2014-06-19-189	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The resolution decree states that the first independent representative to apply may speak in 15 minutes, but I do not see a candidate. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Unfortunately.]] That is why I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-06-19-190	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Once again, this concerns the provisions of the law on public law, the provisions of strict public law, in which roughly all opposition parties form a similar opinion. I have already said several times between the walls of this House, and I am reminding you that if almost all opposition parties say something similar about something, the opposition parties, in whose ideology, to put it mildly, do not have much in common, should consider that they are not only doing this because of political slashing, but because they are indeed not very good professionally, or even wrong in terms of political rationality. I think that this structure, which you have just set up with an earlier law and set up in detail with this one, is fundamentally wrong. It is bad for what my fellow Members have said that they will set up a Prime Minister's Office that will practically be a government in the government. Others put it that way, and I think it may be close to the truth that it will be like the old party center. Ministries will play an executive role, take strategic decisions in the Prime Minister's Office, and ministers will in fact be executives of this decision, this series of strategic decisions. It reminds me a little bit of that, too, that you want to move the ministries to the countryside, which is obviously for several reasons. It may be true, of course, for the reasons or the list that you say, but it certainly reflects a kind of approach, which is that this executive role is essentially intended for the ministries, the executive role in the wrong sense, because, by definition, the government represents the executive power in the state order. They put the Ministry of Agriculture where there are many farmers, they put the Ministry of Defence where there is a large base in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, This means that you do not regard ministries, ministers and government as strategic decision-makers, but as simple executives, and it is, of course, good if all this is where the problem is and where the activity is. [[14.20]] Obviously, there must be flood protection activity where there is water. Agriculture must be organised where the brigade of agriculture is organised. But I think it's a rather wrong and wrong perception. I believe that if they do not want to pursue a campaign of chamarilla politics, if they do not want to organise governance on the basis of old party centers, on the basis of the model of the old state party, then they should be born in the government, at the State Secretary's meetings, during ministerial talks and negotiations, and not in some vague organizational system. That's what this is about. My fellow Member, who has been ringing, said the role that is likely to be intended for Viktor Orbán and János Lázár. There's probably a lot of truth to that. I see, Mr. Secretary, that you find what I'm telling you to be funny for some reason. I would ask you to answer this question in substance, if possible, because I know these panels, when you will throw back that oh, because I, as a socialist Member, am talking about the pro-state past. Yes, my fellow Members, I am talking about the fact that it hasn't been for twenty-four years, thank God, now you want to bring this back. It's not about who says it, it's about who creates something that's like it, and who doesn't want to create something that's like it, or doesn't see the future in it. I do not want to list the powers that will come to the Prime Minister's Office, which my fellow Members have already done, but it is worth considering once again that if they decide all these things at the Prime Minister's Office, then what will be decided in the ministries. We've seen it in the past... - and, in fact, a bit of a picture of the last four years, at least, as far as your practice is concerned, because if you already represent this law here in this House, let me talk about the last four years of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, not even the Ministry's strategic decisions have been made. If I remember correctly, the Fundamental Law is bound to József Szájer, who, not only did the Ministry not have any officials, but he was not even a Hungarian Member of Parliament, but he was a Member of the European Parliament. But the same could be said of the laws of the court concerning the administration of justice, where we know very well that János Áder was partly the spiritual father of this, and partly the Hungarian Judicial Association, and later, to express gratitude, he was appointed to the head of the National Court Office, who played a very big role in this. But I could also make other proposals where the representatives of the Ministry, whether it was a Secretary of State or not, could have come to know the proposal that was brought to the Constitutional Committee about ten minutes earlier, but one thing was certain and it was certainly not the Ministry that had drawn this up. It's an unfortunate thing, and you're putting it in the law. You now make a law that this practice is right, good and good to follow. For the past four years, we have seen that this practice is not, at least, a rule of law and does not fulfill the expectations it has attached to it. If you look at - and you have acknowledged this - the quality of the laws that have been passed over the past few years, then I think you're speaking for yourself. A little different subject, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if I understand what is in this proposal. Because you are now, I count, but you will correct me, Mr. Secretary, if I'm wrong, that you intend to reward your former government commissioners with retroactive effect. They set up a very nice track system: for how long anyone who has served as a government commissioner is entitled to what kind of severance pay is due to him. I have two questions for you. First, what is the reason for this, so you are once again introducing a retroactive law on government commissioners whose mandate has already expired, have they given up their role as government commissioners, or are you going to want to have other government commissioners resigned, and are they subject to this new rule? I do not know this, I ask the Secretary of State that, for example, those government commissioners who have ceased their mandate - and I very much ask Mr State Secretary to answer this question either in the debate or at least in the closing word - are also subject to this rule, or are not subject to this rule. And, of course, one asks the question of the principle of the provision. I remember very well when, perhaps four years ago - plus or minus a few weeks - I listened to Peter Szijjártó and János Lázár's very sharp outbursts about unspoken severance payments. You guys named them that, didn't you? And then you taxed it with a 98 percent tax. Of course, it didn't bother you at all that it affected teachers, miners, and a negligible percentage of people who once had something to do with public life. And now you want to pay your own ex-government agents a rather serious amount of compensation. Do I understand this correctly, Mr. Secretary? I would also like to ask you whether, in addition to rethinking in retroactive force, this is the principle of when you lost it, when you changed it. I'd be happy to get an answer from the Secretary of State. And I would also be happy to receive it at the stage of the debate where, if necessary, we can answer it or ask further questions if it were not satisfactory, with which Mr Secretary of State served for the first time. That is why, Honourable Parliament, this law cannot be supported, because on the one hand it wants to introduce a state order, a government structure that we will certainly not be able to support. On the other hand, there are provisions in it that, let us let our principles be compatible or not, they do not match your previous values. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor István Harangozó, MSZP.
u2014-06-19-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment first of all on a part of this law, namely on changes in the life of the countryside. But before I do that, I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, in so far as it is not to be surprised that a serious pro-state nostalgia can be seen in the transformation of the ministerial structure, because, in replying to a question from Members of this House in the previous term, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself said that he did not have a problem with the operation of the party of state, but only with the actors, in fact he does not have such problems with pro-state operations. What we're looking at here really makes it possible for a Council of Ministers to operate by decree, and then the ministries will have to carry it out nicely. But if I'm starting from here, let us see how the countryside's life has turned out over the last 25 years, and how much attention this structure is now showing. There was a relatively well-functioning structure in the life of the countryside, where agriculture played a leading role, agriculture was professionally organized, it was able to make a very serious profit, and this profit was not for the enrichment of capital owners, but for this it was built to organize the life of the whole region, education, health care, the maintenance of settlements, and for having a job, a livelihood, some income for everyone in the countryside. When this structure was shattered, agriculture began to decline enormously, as it was spread out, largely to large-capitalised farms over the last 25 years, while the others and the little ones have been vegetating there, and they're not really going to make any progress, and the cherry example mentioned today shows that the little ones are abandoned, so as they are, they're not going to do anything. Meanwhile, the villages have developed a terrible poverty that - let's be honest - players in the last 25 years have not been able to handle at all, and we can talk about any government here. [[14.30]] There were measures that slightly improved the situation, and then there was a period, such as the past four years, which made this situation significantly worse, but there was no meaningful change. So it is worth considering whether the structure can be transformed somehow in a way that works better. What's happening now serves everything but this. What's happening? There was a Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, which had a serious problem with the fact that it could not actually take measures in the village's life in which it could start building a local economy. He was able to touch the agricultural development, he was able to grant subsidies, then he was able to grant subsidies to renovate churches, paint community houses, build a little beauty, improve well-being, and several mayors took advantage of the possibility of doing some visual measures for his re-election, and then the workplaces... - there was no meaningful improvement in the village's life. I am convinced that it was also a serious obstacle to the fact that the ministry itself was weak, which is agriculture and I say, to make the settlements' lives a little better, beyond that, nothing. After all, in order to start a meaningful change in this area, something should be launched, a development that will start some development in the settlements or groups of settlements that are living in poverty today. He makes, let's say, an energy investment that generates income, and then he can give support to the various investors who want to settle in the settlements; or to those who are there in the settlements today, but who do not give jobs much, let's say, to the large farmers engaged in crop production, to give them the support they need to employ people and to give income to the village people again, he no longer had the power to do so. How much does this recent transformation serve to make a meaningful change in this regard? The development policy, from which these investments could be financed, for example, will be taken away from the Ministry of Rural Development, added to János Lázár, who himself announced that he did not want to spend this money on the development of villages, but only on the development of agriculture and agricultural subsidies. The rest of the Ministry of Rural Development, which is now being renamed Ministry of Agriculture, is also listed in the Statute for what will belong to it, such as agricultural subsidies, how and in what structure production can be supported, this is supposed to be part of it, but János Lázár will come in for the Ministry hearing, and he says that, well, he will transform it in the way it is, because it is not good - otherwise I agree with him that it is not good to touch it, just not as he says - and he is the personal guarantee that he will do it all the time, because it will involve huge conflicts. So who does this area belong to now? Is there anything substantial left at the Ministry of Agriculture? No, please, I don't see that there's any left that doesn't serve the life of the countryside, because, once again, there should be complex developments in which there should be a much stronger Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. After all, let us not forget that agricultural actors are still the most important players in the life of the countryside. Actors who are able to provide jobs in the countryside today, who would have the ability to create additional jobs, are agricultural actors. So agricultural development cannot be separated from rural development. Thus, the Ministry of Agriculture will have no powers or potential for development, but even in the case of substantive and professional agricultural support, it turns out that János Lázár will tell us what to do after all. What can be done to eradicate rural poverty? The government has been doing something meaningful in this case recently, the Start Work Programme. The Start Work Programme belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. We have criticised this programme a lot from the point of view that it is okay to provide some job opportunities, because other job opportunities, as I said, are not very much, but this is not really a value-creating work, and it is not yet ensured in this system that jobs created in the Start Work Programme are transformed into market jobs. We should move on from this. How can we move on? For example, the EU aid scheme would allow social cooperatives to be set up that can finance labour wages in social cooperatives as atypical employment - this is now in the Ministry of Social Affairs, perhaps this segregation secretary of state will deal with this - and then the investments that could create jobs in which these social cooperatives can do value-making work could be done from rural development sources - but János Lázár says that he wants to spend all the money on agricultural land, so I see that there is no source or responsibility for this - and otherwise what will happen with the Start work programme belongs to the Ministry of Interior. Understand, there's something to do with the misery in the country. That would require a management structure that is suitable for this. This current system, which you have come up with, is neither clear nor at all clear how this will work in a uniform way. A reinforced Ministry of Rural Development, capable of complex solutions for the life of the countryside, would be needed to avoid this situation and not to take apart the powers that affect the life of the countryside into such tiny pieces. In addition, they do this with what is not in this law, but it does belong here, which is why I would also like to say here that, after agricultural management is centralised at the level of the Ministry, but the substantive powers are taken away, distributed to various ministries, primarily to János Lázár, there remains an empty ministry, which, by the way, remains highly centralised in its internal structure, and it is said that the problem of the countryside will be solved by taking this empty, centralised ministry to Debrecen and saying that this is decentralisation. No, please, this is a huge waste of money, it would cost about 80 billion forints if we were to take seriously that the employees were to be transferred, and not to replace the employees with this pull. What is needed instead is that there should be development centres, regional centers right next to agricultural universities, in Debrecen, Kaposvár, Mosonmagyaróvár, which could organize the life of the countryside, both small farmers and local energy solutions; the foundations for local economic development could be laid with the help of university centres, and the ministries would not only be management centres, but also provide service assistance. They would assist in professional advice, production organisation, logistics, processing, and then create a local economic development institution system and a structure for the development of a local economy with regional centres that could create meaningful jobs. Now, we need a departmental system that can serve this idea, and not make the current one even more lame, so I'm gonna emptier, and then I'm gonna tell you that I'm gonna solve the situation in the country by putting it all in Debrecen. That's all I wanted to add to your proposal. Of course, it turned out that I deeply disagree with this proposal, and I think we should do the opposite of what we just did. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-19-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr István Józsa, MSZP. [[14.40]]
u2014-06-19-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is surprising how versatile this Prime Minister's Office has become, and its leader, of course, Mr János Lázár, because at the time of his hearing as a candidate for ministers, when there was no statute, so what the Parliament is discussing now - which we believe should have been known before the candidates were heard, because it would have been possible to compare their competence to a task - it could have been established that it would be suitable for almost everything that he claims to be his task. He also explained what his task would be, including structural reform of the Hungarian banking system, for which his wise Prime Minister - I almost said leader - Mr.Orbán gave the direction to move the domestic share above 50 percent, which, of course, is still there, as far as customers and customers are concerned, but I would like to rearrange the volumes. The first half of this was successful, but the bank volume in the hands of the non-domestic bank managed to be reduced, but the turnover of the Hungarian-owned banks has not yet been reduced. It is also likely that the economic circles of Fidesz have not yet been able to organise in every way the processes that, in connection with, say, the restructuring of the savings cooperative, we have seen how certain segments should be dealt with by law, by forced transformations, and then the influence of the otherwise well-performing Fidesz circle of friends, so that those who were previously in a position of ownership, most often in a position of small owner, the members of the savings cooperative, by chance, are not allowed to comment, by chance, on the fact that they have an interest in this transformation, they believe the propagandaist prelude, which was said here in Parliament, that this is part of the whole restructuring of the banking system, and that the strengthening of the savings cooperative movement is involved. Those who owned there found that they could vote earlier on matters concerning their property, but not after the amendment of the law. Anyway, this fine task was given to Mr. János Lázár, the task of reforming the banking system in general, including the Hungarian Development Bank Zrt. and Magyar Posta Zrt. exercise of ownership rights over the State, along with the rest. This is interesting because Magyar Posta has played an active role in the previously described savings cooperative, savings bank restructuring, but what is now conceptually expected of the post - it has already been included in certain corporate strategy things - is practically a financial institution activity that suggests that János Lázár is also supposed to organise a new postal bank, so that the postal services can rise to a level that can revitalize the postal bank. I am pleased that my competent pro-government fellow Members have nodded over the fact that the reasoning I am giving is not inanimate. It would be much better, however, if these were matured not only in this way, in the form of envelopes, but also in professional debates, because as I recall, a lot of people loved it when the post office bank worked. Not necessarily the Postabank - because it became the fate of what it became - but the fact that there is banking in the post office would be absolutely appropriate and it would be a real waste of the confidence in the post office that still exists, so to speak, with a system-alien oversight assignment, that the supervision of Magyar Posta does not belong to the department where transport, information technology and communications belong, so it does not belong to the Ministry of National Development as it used to be, but rather such a delicacy is highlighted, and the role of the Prime Minister's Office, János Lázár, is the exercise of ownership rights. This is a very strong statute on one side, on the side of the Prime Minister's Office, even if the stakeholders are happy about it, because they can count on a minister with a bigger shoulder, they think, in translating their fate to the right, but the approach itself is distorted if the public wait, the close-up, connects him to the shoulder page, how lucky his fate will be, and not to what kind of professional work he does. So the MSZP's opinion is that the ownership supervision of both the Hungarian Development Bank and the Hungarian Post is more professionally related to the Ministry of National Development, the Development Bank can be more professionally related to the Ministry of National Economy, and these two areas are least related to the Prime Minister's Office, because the Prime Minister's Office is a top ministry, but not a technical ministry. They may be able to support the thinking, which seems to be one of the key elements of government politics, that there is a Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, there is a small Prime Minister in the person of János Lázár, and given the operational tasks, János Lázár may be the bigger Prime Minister, because he is the real leader of the government and the affairs of the country, but the question is whether this is appropriate. So if Viktor Orbán would like to have a strong presidential system after 2017, because his heart wants to march to the Buda Castle, not to the Carmelite monastery, but rather to the Sandor Palace, then the main test of this is being played here in the government work as of 2014, that Viktor Orbán is the quasi-chairman of the government, does not really deal with operational tasks, has guidance, as in general, in centralised systems the leaders are used to help an area develop with wise guidance; for which no guidance is given, it will not or will not evolve. This, let us say, strongly contradicts the market economy approach, because in a market economy competition decides what is viable and what is less viable. In such a lineup, it is the leader who shows the direction and sets out that the energy sector is not viable, it must be made non-profit and the other must be put under the Minister for the Prime Minister's Administration, such as the restructuring of the banking sector. Interestingly, the number of companies whose ownership rights are exercised by the Hungarian Development Bank on behalf of the State is also significantly decreasing, such as the Minister for Forestry will exercise ownership rights in the case of forestry farms. This is entirely appropriate, but what we do not understand is why this had to be put in the ownership portfolio of the Development Bank in 2010 and what is the particular reason why it is not written here; perhaps they realized that this was a wrong direction, it was a bad turn, that it belongs to a place where the ownership rights of forest farms have no professional connection to these companies - now thanks to God, the minister of the trade responsible for forestry. The bill entitles the universal postal service provider to carry out payment transactions around payment services between payment accounts, and the bill makes it compulsory for the universal postal service provider to accept electronic and cash substitution payment methods in the context of the cash payment process in the course of the management of the cash payment form. [[14.50]] This is a very good professional direction. In fact, as a responsible opposition representative, I could suggest why this has not been the case so far, because the demand has been on the part of consumers, citizens, for several years now, so that they can use these modern techniques in the post office, not just in other financial institutions. Interestingly, now that the concept has come to János Lázár, who seems to be very strong, it will now be up to the post office to solve this modern task. I would also like to add that in art, if something is said to be eclectic, it is not necessarily praise, considering the use of words, the role of the Prime Minister's Office in eclectic and baroque composition, which János Lázár himself likes to say. That's the more intelligent expression of confusion. So when you think of an artwork as eclectic, you basically didn't want to offend the artist, that it created something so messy that everything is in it, whether it's compatible or not. So when the prime minister himself says that he is eclectic, he basically admits that the area he has fought for or hung on to himself is inaccessible. And in such key areas, which include economic growth, economic recovery, the role of the Hungarian Development Bank, and the Hungarian Post, as the network with most end points and accounts at the moment, this can give rise to many guesses about what the government wants here, what the leader wants here, what János Lázár wants here. [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] That he wanted to do good for himself was seen from the reform of the savings bank, because the former owners had been purged by a multi-step legislation whose assessment of the rule of law, I think, for many years, could be a curriculum, because they had always gone a little beyond the rule of law with every piece of legislation; it was a constitutional violation that they could not vote for their fate; it was a constitutional violation that they had to appoint the buyer, but within a law it was a bit of a constitutional violation. Which is not acceptable, of course, because just as someone can't be a little pregnant or very pregnant or pregnant or pregnant or not, this violation of the Constitution is also a matter of principle, with these small steps violating the Constitution, and ultimately to such a level that former owners were robbed of their ownership rights and assigned to the Fidesz circle of friends. So it is not reassuring to us that János Lázár, the minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who has a great deal of power over the development and reform of the financial system, is given such serious ownership rights in the field of the Hungarian Development Bank and Magyar Posta, instead of professional ministries. We think this would be better off than the department of commerce. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP.
u2014-06-19-196	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, I would like to comment on one aspect of this draft law, given that it amends the text of several laws in line with the adoption of the Statute. One of the elements is that, in the relevant laws, the term "promoting equal opportunities for society " is replaced by " social inclusion " in several laws concerning the Minister in relation to the provisions of delegation. This amendment obviously concerns the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of EMMI. Last week, I expressed my concern that I deeply condemn the act of government that creates an alternative secretary of state for the poor. At his hearing, Minister, he said that they would like the burden-bearing actors of society, the families who pay taxes, the contributions, to be placed under the authority of a State Secretary, and the so-called fallen, the disabled, the gypsies, the slippery, and the homeless to fall under the quasi jurisdiction of another State Secretary. Dear Friends! Dear House, I know that this agenda or the discussion of this agenda is rather boring. It seems to me that Robi is currently amoebaing or undersecretary of state, and there are three or four pro-government Members who are really just lurking around the House, but I can tell you that I am deeply outraged by the fact that they are creating a separate secretary of state for exclusion and stigmatisation in the governmental structure at all. Because if there's an undersecretary of state for the so-called burden-bearing parties and the middle class and the elite, and there's a secretary of state for the downtrodden, I can't call that anything other than a segregation secretary of state. I know that Hungarians don't usually understand foreign words, but if we translate it, it's nothing more than stigmatizing the fallen. I see that the focus of government work has been on isolation, stigma and exclusion, and if we are looking for an analogy, we do not need to go too far, in the thirties of the last century it was in Hungary, in the Horthy era, a very important element of social policy when society was distinguished from so-called poor and quasi-middle class or wealthy, but the poor were automatically branded with the brand of sinful poor. As a result, they thought at that time, and I see that the current government players believe that poverty is a sin, and if someone is poor, then it is also a sinner. It does not question the reason why a person or family or a community is in that situation, because in such a downsliding situation, it can be a village, but even a small town, and they are not dealing with solving problems, but simply bake this stamp on it and isolate it in society. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So, in my opinion, there is nothing more than the separation of society to worthy and unworthy, and I must deeply condemn it. In addition, I consider this policy discriminatory, disbarring, and a little, I'm sorry, arrogant. You can see that this is a battle between two worlds, because those who think so are absolutely convinced of their truth, even though it would be enough to look up some sociological research that has appeared in the last few days or weeks. It is enough to refer to the statistical data of the OECD, the Tarki and the Central Statistical Office. From what I see, the greatest poverty in this country since the change of regime is now. Here, in connection with the interpellations, one of my fellow Members has just interpelled the minister on child poverty, and it must be said: such poverty among children has not been since the change of regime, but almost since World War II. I am not saying, nor have I ever claimed, that poverty comes into the spotlight from one day to the next, but I do say that there is a need to distinguish between government measures to reduce these problems, reduce equal opportunities or increase them, or that government measures are causing them to grow. [[15.00]] A few weeks ago Habitat Hungary published a very thorough analysis of housing poverty. I think it's the 21st. In Hungary, it is a shame to say that 170,000 children live in apartments where there are no toilets. It's a shame to say the 21st. In the century, there are nearly 200,000 children living in households where, hold on, there is no electricity. I am not saying that 10 years ago there was electricity in every house, nor am I saying that every house had a flush toilet, but I am saying that no government measures have been taken in recent years that would have improved this situation. And the answer to that is not to create another Secretary of State. Shame, I think it's the 21st. In the century, it was said that 620,000 children live in an apartment where the apartment is musty, moldy, or soaking and 900,000 apartments are heated with wood and coal. Dear Friends! There's got to be a government slogan for reducing the rent. And hold on: over 500 thousand executions have occurred in recent years that have assumed public utility and credit debts. This research showed that since 2010, the number of implementations has increased by 10-10-10-10 percent per year. What does that mean? Compared to 2010, the number of implementations increased by 40 percent where there are public utility debts and debt debts. I think my fellow Member Bernadett Wind mentioned the device manager without the device. Dear Friends! I used to say it was a fictitious organization when this asset manager was created. He wasn't a coworker for months, and for months, there wasn't a man who would answer the phone. Then came the wise decision, Ocsan - Ocsan! - create a housing complex to save foreign exchange credentials. We know from last week, and we knew months ago that there weren't enough candidates for the apartment park in Occasia. They stopped the development, thanks to God, they shouldn't have started because people wouldn't move under these circumstances. Because it is a misguided government policy that thinks that moving people and families with the same problems to one place will solve their problems. Last week, the Maltese Love Service staff told us that recently families who did not have foreign exchange loans are moving in. They'd give the apartments happy-happy so they wouldn't have to spend 5 million forints a month on security. And I'm not going to tell you any more about the conditions in this country. However, I would like to refer to this government thinking, because where can the concept of social inclusion be derived at all, and I note that this definition cannot really be incorporated into the European legal order. It can be derived from Minister Zoltán Balog, when he was still the Minister of State for Social Catch-up at the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. Later, in 2012, when he took this area with him as Minister of the EMMI, this was how the Roma case, which had been dealt with so far, came together with the portfolio responsible for social affairs and equal opportunities. Dear Friends! Even when naming the national social catch-up strategy, the term "social catch-up " has been criticised in countless places. I spoke to a lot of sociologists at the time and they organised a special conference on the interpretation of this social catch-up strategy. We had to conclude that the concept itself is simply incomprehensible in this situation. He mentioned, Mr Secretary of State - whom I regret very much for leaving the Chamber, that it would not be possible, in fact, to continue the discussion of the agenda if the representative of the Government was not present, but I will ignore him, the Fundamental Law - because Mr. State Secretary also referred to him, with the fourth amendment of the Fundamental Law, I believe that this is Article XV. Article 4 (4) amended the wording for equal opportunities and social inclusion. Thus, it is stated that Hungary, literally speaking, is promoting equal opportunities and social inclusion through specific measures. Dear Friends! The Faculty of State and Law of ELTE, and I refer to this because it is necessary once again to quote it literally, in a professional paper, at a conference: "The definition of social inclusion is now less simple, since its concept in the European Union acquis on equal opportunities - equality law - is virtually unknown. Similarly, it does not have an independent meaning in Hungarian law, which functions as a synonym for equal opportunities and as a part of it. " Please, I'm a very thorough man, I always look into everything, and as I started reading this summary analysis, there was a reference there, and I'm just going to look at where this whole catch-up concept can come from, replacing equal opportunities. And I found literature, imagine. I'm gonna tell you what this is about. Literally, I quote from this document: " Your close relative, the catch-up, was debuted during socialism - hold on! - following a decision of the Central Commission in 1962, which forced the Gypsy children into school by administrative measures. Suddenly there were a lot of people there, so it was practical for the then-day decision makers to catch up with them first, and, of course, elsewhere as a separate organized, smaller number of classes. " Dear Friends! From what I hear, Mr. Secretary, that kind of thinking is not far off. I think he visited Szabolcs-Szatmár county a year and a half ago, and there, in Nyíregyháza, in one of the suburban housing sites, he said that he was in principle and practically supporting the separation of Gypsy children in education. I think it's called the Huszár colony, this crappy Roma colony, and they set up a school like this. All international research shows that children can catch up in integrated conditions 20 to 100 times more efficiently than under segregation. Then, watching TV one night, I see the new Secretary of State visiting troubled places, and I hear that tomorrow he's going to be in Tatabánya, at the Limeyard, to find out what the problem is. I only have one more question: didn't you know? You didn't know what the problem was in this country? Then go to the Limeyard, then go to the Pigeons, then go to Tarnabod, if you can bring money there, you can bring an expert, you can get a job there, you can offer a solution that can deliver social services to a higher standard. Don't go getting informed, because from orientation, my dear friends, there will never be a " catch-up ". Thank you so much for listening, that's all I wanted to say. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. It is now possible to make a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can't go along with you getting your second cycle in a row, and a lot of things haven't changed. In 2010, the same person who now took over this wallet, and here I continue the thoughts of Lajos Korózs, basically said only classical ones exactly, so I will quote: " If there is nothing we can do, it would be insane to do nothing. " Now, this is the policy of doing little, that is what has always marked you when it comes to social issues. And now it's a very harsh contribution from an ideological attitude that's getting quite stomach-stricken. The same man from whom I quoted this has spoken of decent and lumpy poverty, of families who, in his view, are worthy of family names and those who he does not think are worthy. Now, we're about to talk about troublesome load bearers, aren't we? Look! What we need to be clear is that you might think, in a way, that this is a good direction you're doing. But the problem is that you don't just talk like that, but you think like that, and that's how you create an excuse to draw hundreds of millions of people out of social affairs, freeze family support, cut benefits, or give social workers a decent wage increase. And that's the sad thing about Fidesz-ideology and this whole salad, and all the laws that have been passed to us over the last few weeks, that's what it looks like. [[15.10]] I've been watching this ever since there were inter-group negotiations on what committees they should be. At the time, the Fidesz delegation said that there shouldn't be a labour committee and employment - always since the change of regime - because business development is better, because the other one is a trade unionist. That's the curse word for you. If I say that the gender equality committee should be set up, you say why, well, there is entrepreneurial development, there will be a discussion of the integration of parents into the market. Look, the problem is, you don't even understand what we're talking about.
u2014-06-19-199	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue the two-minute period: Mr István Józsa is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We did not just press a button in order of business, but I would like it to be recorded in the minutes that, for reasons of fairness, the government was not present in the speech. I don't want to tell you why. As John Lazarus did not know why he spent so much money on the hotel, let us not now wonder why the secretary of state had to go out. But the two-minute comment is about the debate in the debate.
u2014-06-19-201	I'm sorry, Congressman, I'll tell you why, because you indicated to me that you'd like to go out for a minute to resolve the clamping need.
u2014-06-19-202	Well, then that mystery is solved, Mr. President. It is very regrettable that, in the state of need, only one State Secretary of the Government can be here in the bill on the Statute. I believe that this law deserved at least two persons on the part of the government to avoid such a one-minute constriction. But in fact, the two-minute debate would be about the debate if the government side were willing to debate. But the sad thing is that, as Viktor Orbán said, he doesn't want to argue in the election campaign, because then he would be attacked, and then Pelczné Gáll Ildikó said that he didn't see any sense in the debate, and for some reason you might not see the point of parliamentarism. Here he sits - I count - five government representatives, and now he is thanking God, the secretary of state, in an orderly state, ready to fight, but they are not speaking. Members, please take the trouble to make the professional arguments on which you may have even seen serious nods - I say this to the viewers - press a button and give an opinion on what you have heard. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. No more two-minute speeches. A proper speech from the MSZP Group will be followed by Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-06-19-204	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I can't speak to congressional women, so I only address Members.
u2014-06-19-205	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, if you'd put your eyes on my left, you'd be able to address me. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-206	I am changing the address already, and therefore, with the help of President President, the picture is more complete. In fact, honourable Members and Members - and so after the vocativus, perhaps we can get to the essentials. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to address the issue of culture in the governance structure, the governance of cultural policy and its structural solution. First of all, not repeating, but recalling the idea that the Ministry of Human Resources - whatever the name - would listen to - would be the kind of function for which you have predestined it - would make the large areas of human resources together in a large government unit successful, and I do not think that it has fulfilled its expectations, nor do I see that keeping the territories in a government unit meant some kind of qualitative change. But since, according to the Hungarian constitutional arrangement, the Prime Minister has a government and not a Prime Minister of the Government, it must be respected that the Prime Minister manages his government in whatever kind of government he wants. However, even the opposition, and if there is a pro-government critical opinion, it is worth giving rise to critical opinions, even because there is some experience in this respect, an international comparison, but mostly an opinion and experience based on the human resources of the Hungarian nation or even the Hungarian nation. I must say, Mr Secretary of State, in this House, that, since there has been independent Hungarian governance, the area of culture within the structure of the state has never been so scattered. In this dispersal, I see a concept in certain areas, I see no concept in other areas at all, and unfortunately, these two are not the characteristics of qualitative, quality governance, not only in the current governance structure, but also in the experience of the past four years. But in addition to the general findings, let us look at specific areas and try to consider together that the argument that I wish to make may not only be the right of criticism in the opposition jus Murmurand, but perhaps there is also the intention that the field of human resources will be able to produce results over a period of time, neither in education nor in culture. So in any way, in your government structure, in this megaministéry, there is a cultural secretary of state, which we see and can best grasp if we do not detail what you have, but see what you do not have, because it does not belong to more of the area of culture than it belongs to. Here, for example, is the film and film industry, which the cultural secretary of state has virtually no influence on. Under the aegis of a government commissioner, the Ministry of National Economy is working in some kind of hierarchy or directly depending on the Prime Minister, and although I do not wish to question the competence here, let us state, as a first point, that the branch of the field of culture that depicts film art, and there is no doubt that in the modern world - whether it is the film itself or the visual communication on the world, it reaches the most people within the country and together in the world, and consequently, if a government wants to have any impact on this, it is worth assigning it to culture, and then to a cultural ministry or cultural secretary of state. If this were an exception, then perhaps we could see some unique part of the concept, some unical part of it, but unfortunately it is not so, because for example here is the new Balassi Institute, the director of foreign Hungarian cultural institutions, which was set up by the first Orbán government, whose activities were extended by us, and then for some professionally difficult reason, it was linked to the Ministry of Justice established at the time in 2010. Please, it has been a historic act to say that there are certain thesis papers coming from this, whether within the European Union or outside the European Union, there is only one country in Europe whose cultural foreign institution network belongs to the Ministry of Justice of that country, since we have to say that it is likely that it has too little to do with it professionally. The concept was already forgotten, but when, in their new government structure and in the new government announced by the Prime Minister, it turns out that the former Minister of Justice will now be Minister of Foreign Affairs and that the Balassi Institute, which directs foreign Hungarian cultural institutions, does not belong to the Ministry of Justice, but to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at least here the man sees the concept that Minister Navracsics, where I estimate, goes, the foreign Hungarian cultural institutions and the Balassi Institute. [[15.20]] The question is that if Minister Navracsics, as can be seen from the news in the autumn, goes to Brussels and becomes European Commissioner, then what do they do with this concept, because it would be strange to run foreign Hungarian cultural institutions from Brussels, and I do not think that about you, but there is no other concept in this structure than the previous one. Similarly, I believe it is essential that more cultural areas, such as the renovation areas - whether this Castle in Buda or our other outstanding cultural monument, the Castle, the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, and I do not want to mention them, are under the supervision of our decisive cultural ensembles - under the supervision of a separate Commissioner for Government or Ministerial Affairs, but not under the authority and aegis of the Secretary of State for Culture. Here I would like to turn to the question that I am afraid we will return several times in this cycle, not at a theoretical level, but for entirely practical reasons. As it happens, now, in 2014, the portfolio responsible for the protection of national heritage is no longer what it has been, but the task of the Prime Minister's Office. Please, not that I think that, at this afternoon's meeting, and only in the decision of the Secretary of State, much can be done, but as a member of the government present, I respectfully ask that the opinion that has been expressed here, while I think that they are looking at and listening to everything I say, we say, but I ask you to interpret it. This function applies not only to the protection of our built heritage, but also to the supervision of normal and so-called preventive archaeology in Hungary. In this respect, I must say that the protection of cultural heritage was defeated in a previous battle in 2011, and that economic investment interests - which must also be admitted - won a victory in a continuing conflict, independent of governments, after 2010, in 2011. But if I say this once again, not in general, but in the reality that is likely to happen in this government cycle, it happens that, in connection with a significant industrial and economic investment, a new pipeline system is being built - consciously not to mention its name - in the essential parts of Hungary's territory, then here, please, preventive archaeology has no chance of protecting cultural heritage. What's this about? As part of a large international project, I do not doubt that Hungary is worth participating in, but it is planned to enter the territory of our country, first east of the Tisza, then through the Tisza, then across the Tisza and the Danube, leaving our country to the west of the Danube, crossing the territory of our country for hundreds of miles. Please, this does not require very thorough historical knowledge, and you don't even need a degree in history or archaeology, but you may need to be interested in observing the history: where there are river beds and we are looking at areas between river beds, human civilization, especially in our area and in the Carpathian Basin, has produced settlements in the most diverse historical ages. These areas, which I am talking about, are full of archaeological sites that have been established in various ages and are not yet known in all respects. The consideration which thus lists these functions involving the protection of preventive archaeological and national cultural heritage to the Prime Minister's Office constitutes the exclusive primacy of economic interests over cultural interests. It sets deadlines that make it impossible to save a large, international economic investment carried out at a rapid pace, the bands in the depths of the Hungarian soil, which are now archeological findings, not only to explore, not to restore, but to save them at all. Therefore, the elimination of professional aspects, which, let's face it, is a cultural interest, an archaeological interest, should appear at the Secretary of State for Culture. In all likelihood, you also believe that in the area of water management, there is the greatest expertise in water management; where legal knowledge is needed, and they belong to the Ministry of Justice, I am afraid that they do not want to represent energy policy in the first place, but basic knowledge and expertise in the field of law. I regret to say that, in this case, the opposite of culture is achieved, because where cultural knowledge should be decisive in the whole structure of the government, it is not this, but economic interest that appears primarily, and not in the theoretical assumptions and hypotheses of a parliamentary debate, but in the practical life, when the wires are laid down, when that company or consortium is pushing these lines from 100 metres to 100 metres in specific economic terms, it will be a pity to complain about where Goth, Where Gepida, Where Sarmata, Where Árpád-era village was plowed. 'Cause there's nothing you can do about it. That's pretty much what I call the protection of national cultural heritage in time. You're taking this out of the hands of the profession and slamming it into a very large administrative centre. I must tell you that, in the field of culture, the aforementioned details - from film to foreign cultural institutions to archaeology - bring about and represent a fragmentation that does not allow for a uniform, coherent cultural policy to be presented, and we are critical of this strongly and already. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-19-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the floor. I would break up with the tradition of opposition speeches. Mr. Lajos Korózs noted how few people are here. I've been doing this industry for a month, and I'm very pleased - it's rare that we've had so many people to argue with from the ranks of Fidesz, so for the usual two, I think this triple-four-time participation is very good. Then I'd break it off by hurting Mr. Lazarus - we don't need a Kehi check on us yet. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] So I'm not gonna say anything wrong about him either. I also do not dispute the role of the government in deciding for itself what governance structure and how it would like to govern. However, as an opposition representative, I would like to have the role of trying to make this better, or I would like to try to draw attention to some errors or inconsistencies. The first inconsistencies are a centralization issue, because in the last few weeks we have heard a great deal about the importance of decentralisation on the part of the government, which it wants to achieve territorially, which I do not feel is from the devil, and I feel there are many possibilities that, if this is done wisely and well, it may even have a result, but a centralization of power is as dangerous as a local, so it also hides risks, and this is feared in many places. [[15.30]] My fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, then had a relatively wide impact on rural development and agriculture. I never thought that I would be in a position to draw attention to the fact that rural development is by far not just about agricultural production and by far it is not just about agricultural production. The draft will consistently replace the Minister for Rural Development with the Minister for Agriculture everywhere. This is a bit of a concern because a significant part of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund's resources goes to the Prime Minister's Office. There may be a number of issues of competence and competence where it is not just a question of agriculture that needs to be decided, but in many cases it is also a question of rural development, and that part of the rural population should be dealt with by the government, who do not necessarily live only in agriculture and agriculture. For this reason, such amendments, which reduce rural development everywhere only to agricultural policy, are worrying, because I say that it does not really matter whether the minister is called that way, it can be governed equally badly or could be equally well, but removes the power to speak on more general rural development matters on the basis of legislative amendments. Forgive me, Secretary of State, I do not want to ride on words, but I also think that words have meaning. The draft legislation consistently replaces the term "for culture " with the term "for the protection of cultural heritage " everywhere. In this I have a concern as to how the government wants to deal with contemporary arts, contemporary culture and the daily manifestation of this whole issue. This approach to the past, which speaks only of heritage consistently, is also a danger to contemporary art, and I would therefore like to consider the application of this consistent use of the word. In the same way, there is another consistent transformation, a transformation of the term social equal opportunities to social catch-up. The question is what does the government mean politically by these terms. Because if he always rewrites the person responsible for family policy for social inclusion, then how he intends to deal with equal opportunities - which would indicate the segregation of society that continues to break up society, even more and in a number of respects - how he intends to deal with it. And I want to talk about not only those social groups who are at a disadvantage to majority society at some level, but also, in general, the social policy approach of whether the government wants to achieve equal opportunities. In the same way, I wanted to draw attention to something that might please the Fidesz ranks. They love the past eight years consistently. The pre-2010 period was one of the most serious village-destroying activities of the small-scale post offices and the reduction of such public services. When we talk about the services that the post office should receive and what it should accomplish, I would have been very pleased to see during the transformation, if the extended services, the postal banks, could reach as small settlements as possible, as widely as possible. This would have been important because I have drawn attention in my speeches after the agenda of the previous parliamentary session to the fact that, compared to the pre-2010 situation, nothing from these small-town services has recovered, even though the Fidesz government has promised to restore and rehabilitate it. And it would still be possible, because with this transformation, the possibility of expanding postal services would open up the possibility for small settlements to be places for public services again. Finally, but for the longest time, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable government to one problem, and I would like to suggest that you consider this. It's a matter of state forestry. The issue of public forestry has been practically from the beginning of the 1980s, and during the compensation, very large areas remained as state-owned forests, and the Hungarian state has now established private limited companies covering all areas of the country. We are talking about more than one million hectares of forest land, in which private limited liability companies carry out various forest interventions and forestry management. This is shocking because farming in such a large area can and does assume a very large turnover. From statistical data, we know that the annual turnover of these public forests is between 70 and 75 billion, but their taxed income is HUF 1.8 billion, all of them in the country. All the others will "work." The CEOs there are not subject to secretary of state or minister's salary, nothing else. There's no such thing as reward. This is a sector that has almost unlimited control over public resources. Almost all Hungarian state forests are covered by them, and their farm income will be consumed in their operating costs. That's when the new machines, the new SUVs, the big incomes show up. But this is accompanied by another problem, namely that in areas and settlements where almost exclusively public forests form the natural resources belonging to the administrative area of the settlement, the livelihood of the settlement is very, very much reduced. So I saw in the forest structure of the North Forest or the Eger Forest or in the forest structure of these areas that there is a settlement in the Bükk, the whole area of which belongs either in some form or in the Bükk National Park or in a state forest. There, the public forestry cannot help the livelihood after providing a centralised forestry activity that is unattainable to the local community. There is also a problem in this regard, namely that the current structural operation in the area of public forests puts forest farms in charge and retains the full range of wildlife management. That raises another question. One million hectares is the area where the state itself exercises forestry and hunting rights. The problems of wildlife management and wildlife damage would arise in forestry, so this sector has to deal with the issue of wildlife damage in itself, say, which causes problems in forestry and forestry. It must keep two sectors of opposition together. The problem is that when you look at this HUF 70-75 billion turnover and you look at the tax revenue that is only 2 billion, you always wonder how this is possible. While the vast majority of public forestry complicates a significant part of the hunts where millions of individual income is generated from the launch of a large trophy wild game, and yet the public forestry can make this work at a loss or with minimal profit. At the moment, the question of all public forestry is transferred to the agricultural portfolio, which I am concerned about, because in the forestry structure and forestry intervention, we see the risk that if an inadequate administration deals with this issue, then a whole sector may pull over. I don't really want to go down to the point where I'm afraid that the acacia will appear everywhere in the state forests and there will be acacia buffers, but I also have the concern that we will maintain a number of billion-dollar sectors completely unnecessarily without justification. In the same areas where, say, public forests overlap with the network of protected areas, there are managers of protected areas, national park directorates could be fully forest managers without further ado. At the same time, we maintain 19 public forestry projects with a lot of revenue and game management that would create a great opportunity for every local community where it is territorially located. At the same time, this is not what is happening, but it is actually doing farming on a minimum of taxed income, while practically raising this money. What should be considered in the current structure, and if this legislation is already here, it should be looked at with options to modify whether the issues of public forestry and state wildlife should not be separated. State wildlife also raises a lot of questions about the cleanliness of public life, and over the past ten years, we have seen a lot of examples of the protocol hunts that have taken place in the case of public forestry, and what the state-owned Zrts have implemented and what benefits they may have provided to influential people. It is very difficult to tell the real value of these, because the launch of a large trophy deer or a large trophy boar is almost undetectable, since we do not have the opportunity to register the wild game. At the same time, they create liabilities that involve the possibility of corruption. I fear that the survival of this system and structure has made it possible for public forestry to operate in this way and in this form over the past decades. [[15.40]] Overall, I would like and I would like to see this whole structure thought about; wild game management opportunities would be given back to local communities as much as possible, and especially in settlements where there is no other natural resources. Once again, in different parts of the North-Central Mountains, we find more of these, that there is no normal livelihood in the whole village, but at the same time the state is taking away both forest rights and hunting rights from them, where consideration could be given to a rural development model that would allow these resources to be once again owned by local communities. And I do not think that there will be another interest group coming back with some controversial tender in some Oligarchic system, but I think that we will keep our local authorities so much, we will keep those entitled to hunting - who are present locally - so that we will consider the possibility of splitting up forest management and wildlife management; we will consider the possibility of transferring the entire forest management rights to national park and nature conservation managers in the case of protected forests, and we will consider the possibility of starting to rationalise the operation of these 19 public companies to a significant extent. At the beginning of my long speech, I started with the question of centralisation decentralisation. Obviously, I do not feel that it is effective in itself if, let us say, a public forestry controls forestry in the whole country, but it is also not entirely right that if we completely give up the possibility that the state will use it for the purpose of creating jobs, for the benefit of local communities, it really serves local interests. I ask the honourable government side and the Secretary of State to consider the opportunities that lie in all of this, because they are not formulated for political attack at all, but for reflection on how governance can serve the affairs of communities more effectively. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-209	Thank you very much, Congressman. There's a circle down, there's a two-minute speech for one congressman per faction. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gergely Bárándy, please.
u2014-06-19-210	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On the one hand, I would like to respond very briefly to my fellow Member Hiller and, on the other hand, to my fellow Member Sallai's speech, which concerns culture. I'd come with my own bad model, and they'd understand why. The model of the Justice and Police Department didn't work. It didn't work because, on the one hand, the post of Minister of the Interior and Justice wants people of a different kind: one is an operational, hard-handed person and the other, let's say, wants a deep, professor-type person; on the other hand, the kind of balance within the government that manifests between efficiency and legality has not been achieved, since the Minister of Interior always has to strive for efficiency, and one is always concerned with legality. The same is true of what my fellow Member has said about how he will lobby himself, if you like, by a minister who oversees development policy and historic protection at the same time. In many cases, two completely opposite aspects conflict. A man can't solve this, two people in the government should solve it. Therefore - and I would like to make a comment on the course of the debate here - that the Secretary of State represents the Government here, at least formally, because he has not spoken in the debate yet, for two reasons: on the one hand, because they are doing what they do in similar debates, that they let the opposition speak, that you will not speak, and then say something in the closing; on the other hand, I think that there is no substantive debate because, for example, the Secretary of State responsible for Culture is not here. So, here, the government should not be formally representing you, but should be sitting here as representatives of the State Secretarys who are responsible for this particular area, and these points that we are saying should be answered. I do not believe that Mr Secretary of State can answer these questions; I would be happy if he could - at least there could be some debate in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the regular speeches: from the group of the MSZP, Mr László Kiss is next. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Here, let me begin with a criticism of our own. We are wondering what kind of concept might be behind the bill. I don't know why the opposition thinks that the Orbán government has any concept. I think from this piece of legislation that we have before us, it seems that there is no concept, or if there is, it will change in a few days or even a few hours. Another criticism of the opposition's position towards ourselves: I think that we have the naivety to think that the cases that opposition representatives are talking about are better placed in other ministries, while the reality is that you are also in charge of these ministries, which predestrines that these matters are unlikely to be in the right place for you at all. But still, if we assume that we can be right, and that the opposition can be naive, when it thinks that there are cases that are in the right place for other wallets, then there is room for thinking about what kind of governance structure is there to talk about. I think everyone agrees that the aim of governance is to solve the problems of Hungarian people. Then, of course, the question is whether the governance structure fits into these problems, whether it reflects Hungarian reality. We see that, no, it does not reflect Hungarian reality, where there are not enough jobs, the quality of education is deteriorating, young people are fleeing, and not only in two weeks, but in four years it has not increased, but it has only made public safety worse. Compared to this, we see a government structure in which government powers were thrown up into the air, and they flew from branch to branch, from ministry to ministry, just as it was in line with the respective powers, and, of course, the thickest branches had the most governmental role, the ministry of János Lázár received the most opportunities, the most roles. If we look at the powers given to the ministry of John Lazarus, we can see that there is a great deal of dispersal here, practically only the Mars expedition and the coordination of the " new pandas in the zoo " did not come here, but the ministry of Lazarus was looking everywhere, and practically a diner, a government mess was created. You said that there were two types of ministries: one of them deals with political coordination, this is the Prime Minister's Office, and there is a ministry that deals with professional matters, and these are the others. Compared to this, we see that there are at least two top ministries, the Ministry of Human Resources and the Prime Minister's Office, and there are others. In the classic joke, the third person, Otto Tóth, is always with us; there are six ministries or ministers here who will always be with them at government meetings, but what they really do is not very important, nobody really cares. It can be said that decentralisation or other administrative principles are the ones to which, for example, the flash of news that ministries are being exiled from Budapest to the countryside, but I actually think that this would be just an eclectic government communication, rather than a part of the real political content. But as I see it, the ministries that really don't have any authority, really don't matter where they are; in this, I tell you honestly, I'm telling you, I'm telling you the truth of your government. But let's see what this system can do. On the one hand, the idea is interesting, which creates basically first- and second-class ministries, because we think it is quite naive to believe that, let us say, the management of culture is not a political task, but a professional task. Or perhaps what we have seen so far is that, instead of the ministries, the really important legislation, the truly substantive decisions, will be brought before the House in the form of amendments, preferably in a special quick procedure, so that it is not even possible to carry out meaningful social consultation. In this case, what you are talking about is that there are two types of ministries: one that is political and the other that does nothing. But even if we look at the governmental traditions of the development of the central administration, let me just refer to the words of my fellow Member, István Hiller, who said that this is an unprecedented solution in the history of the administration that you have chosen. [[15.50]] That's not necessarily a problem. For the record, it could still be a good governance structure, which you've come up with, that if no one has ever tried it in this country, but unfortunately, it's not good. The Socialist Group, in the debate on the governance structure, said that it would like the country's real important problems to appear in the governance structure, so that the issue of work or education would be prominently reflected in the governance structure. Compared to this, we see that this did not happen. What we see is that these high-profile cases, these really important cases, the really important issues of the country are not reflected in the governance structure. This is a sad experience. I think it can be said that there has never been an example in history, for example, that the issue of education should not appear particularly at government level, the Orbán government, the second Orbán government, and the third who has done so in this country. I think this pioneering role is something that you cannot be very proud of. Of course, obviously, we have to start someplace with the bad practice you've been doing, so you're going to be able to do this bad practice. Similarly, if we look at what legislative practice you are pursuing, although the President of the House, Mr Fat, has promised that the ministries will finally write the laws, and the practices that, without social debate, undermine legislation by bringing in a form of pseudo-motions and sham motions, we see that in a few weeks, in a month, this trend will continue. The question therefore arises as to whether the ministries will carry out their original basic tasks, the task of legislative initiative, and the task of social consultation. Based on the experience of the last few weeks, we see that this trend continues and does not perform these tasks. How much space a new type of administration would have in your system is well demonstrated by the fact that in many areas what you have invented does not work, neither in the world of work nor in the world of education. A few months ago, you nationalized the schools. In January 2013, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center was organized, and a new type of education management started in Hungary, although I would like to place strong question marks and quotes for the management. The start was so strong politically that the new concept of education management practically impressed Hungarian public life, but somehow they failed to organise this office for you. Nationalisation of education management has not started without scandals or operational fiascoes, and in this new governance structure, where education is not a human resource, but merely an administrative task to be checked out, it can be said that both schools and children are lost. Let me tell you just a few results or some experiences from the last year and a half in this area. The textbooks came out late. There were schools where last November children were given the textbooks that they should have received in the new nationalised system from September. Destroying results, continuously deteriorating public education results will accompany your reforms. Uncertainty with teachers, uncertainty with parents, uncertainty with students. The textbook market has now been nationalised, which resulted in poor, untested textbooks flooding the Hungarian public education, from which it was very difficult - I can say from experience - to teach it almost impossible. The new curriculum became unthinkable, unprofessional, despite the protests of international and Hungarian Hungarian teachers' organisations. All the elements of the hasty legislation that your Secretary of State and the previous director of education said a few hours ago that they didn't really represent anything, no one, these trade unions, together with the teachers, protested against the new curriculum and your legislation. When KLIK's operation became a scandal and a clown, you, by the way, scanned this organization very correctly, whose detailed screening was immediately hidden so that the public would not be aware of it, and in this screening that we have managed to make public, it seems that even in violation of its own rules, this organization is functioning. The fact that your public administration worked well shows well in education that while last year your main educational reform was to rename schools, and as a result, graduation certificates had to be recalled so that very important renamings could be made, such as the name of the settlement in the school's name, while the KLIK could not answer any of the most fundamental questions and labour law problems. While the textbook application system collapsed, textbook application teachers received no response from the textbook provider, the library provider, and could not solve the problem. What was the most important product of the KLIK in administrative terms is a smiler: it was possible to establish a rule that the object of the return must have a 4 per cent angle in the central return card system. I am so glad, therefore, that Hungarian public education is now in order, since we have also learned that 6.5 percent is no longer the subject of the return. Unfortunately, I have to say that the government failed to achieve this, because the barometer was not sent to schools, and thus no validated government tool arrived at the schools, so it may have been 3.5 percent or 4.5 percent of the address book, even last year. Well, you see what I'm talking about when I say that your government structure doesn't reflect on reality. No one seriously believes that the inoperable CLIK should deal with the percentage of the angle of the object of a return letter. That's how we feel. But similarly, your success story today, the National Pedagogist Faculty, is a great success, since out of the 240,000 teachers, it was 17,000 teachers who even elected the delegates. It is not that you have been involved in this process that you are talking about, but that you have elected those who will be able to participate in this process. Nineteen thousand! What percentage is this? Eight? However, we feel that it is difficult to talk about a steely majority in view of this. Because of these things, the Socialist Group says that you are not concerned with reality, your governance structure is not reflecting on reality. We believe that this can be done better. We believe that better can be done if the case of work or education is given a high priority in your governance structure. We believe that it is in your interest that these cases work well, that they solve these problems. We are not debating your right when we make proposals for how you govern, but we want you to be successful in this governance, so that the world of work, the world of education in Hungary, is not a stepchild, it is not a government task to be checked out, it is not a ruby to be solved in the Excel table of a State Secretary. We would like to ask you to take these tasks seriously and not to delegate powers here and there, not to create tangled government structures, but to represent the real interests of people. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-06-19-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Józsa is next for a two-minute speech.
u2014-06-19-214	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-215	Excuse me, one more minute. If you also maintain your regular speech, do not sit down and then continue. Here you go. [[16.00]]
u2014-06-19-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to draw the attention of the authors to a phenomenon of degradation or depreciation, since, according to previous regulations, ministers supervising government offices were appointed by the Prime Minister in a regulation. These government offices are the Central Statistical Office, the Hungarian Energy Office, the Hungarian Atomic Energy Office, the National Intellectual Property Office - or previously known as the Patent Office - and are no smaller than the National Tax and Customs Office. So that was okay, because the Prime Minister created the 5/2010. The Prime Minister's decree, and in it he assigned the ministers who oversee them to each government office. On the other hand - and this is what I call a degradation or depreciation process - Annex 1 to the Government Decree, which is now being submitted, which can actually be amended at any time, provides for ministers supervising government offices. In line with this new regulatory logic, the bill removes the turn of the " appointed minister " from a number of laws because it is not a Prime Minister's decree to appoint the Minister of Inspector and instead applies only the term "minister." We do not think this degradation process is good, and we believe it is important that these high-profile government agencies have an appropriate statute and that separate regulations regulate supervisory ministers. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-217	From here, the Member may proceed with a proper speech.
u2014-06-19-218	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It has already been said in several speeches that it seems that the government does not have a strategy for government work, because it has not submitted a government programme to Parliament or to the government structure, because it has not been established for the Prime Minister's oath or for the hearing of ministers, either the Statute Act before us or the regulation that describes the powers of certain ministries, what they are dealing with. This may be a form of unStrategicism, and I find the assessment - more political scientists have this view - that part of the organization of internal power struggles within Fidesen is the Statute Act, the powers which can be ripped out for itself, and the former powers are now being reorganized by the formation of government and the formation of ministries within Fidesen. I have to complete this sentence immediately, because KDNP also occupies significant positions in this role, as they give the Minister for National Development, in addition to the fact that they have previously given a Deputy Prime Minister without a wallet. So we're witnessing a sort of reorganization, which, I think, aside from the fact that it's lifelike, unintelligent and wrong. So it would be much better for the country and, above all, for the economy, for predictable legislation, if, first, Parliament could adopt certain government principles, including you, pro-government representatives, then we could discuss the government programme, as stated in the principle of popular representation, on the basis of the comments of the elected, responsible representatives of the people - in this I think your wise consideration of taking into account opposition proposals - and then, when a government programme is finalised after such a debate, it would be possible to negotiate government structures in substance. Instead, what we see now is that, based on the momentary power position of the background economic circles of Fidesz, some structures are assigned to it, but as football has been said to be seen twice by eleven people for forty-five minutes, and the Germans always win, so it is about so that Parliament is now characterised by 190 Members' debates instead of the former 386 Members, and always wins by János Lázár. This is interesting, let us say, primarily for you, because we believe that the essence of representative democracy is to establish these statutes in a public debate, these opportunities. And to come back to my own policy area on my comment: there are very unpleasant and negative consequences for the economy of the Statute Act, as it shows the possibility. It does not show that there is a well-thought-out, predictable government policy and an appropriate predictable government programme; don't give'god, predictable tax policy, but exactly the opposite: legislation comes with sudden ideas, there was no Statute law when they brought in the advertising law, which also rips up the rest of the freedom of the press, and now they are bringing in financial salad laws that may continue to come in as an independent motion because of the lack of a ministerial structure. Believe me, this isn't appropriate. So there are serious players in the economy who risk serious investment amounts, and if they find that you continue to follow the practice that you have followed over the past four years in an uncondemnable manner, that you are submitting to Members in an uncontested manner, that you have not passed the test of standard control, which has not been settled by the wallets, and that you have not been able to do so from a codification point of view, and that there is no government programme that can be compared to that which could now lead them forward or not, this increases the uncertainty, increases the impact that we can see serious investors are not coming to Hungary, and those who are still still here are practically stuck, stuck in here, because they have invested so much that it would be more loss to them than to take on this smaller loss that you are causing them. But the new investors can see that exactly. So, when such a structure is made, not by professional ministries, but by a representative, which is presented to the House; when professional ministries are not able to deal fully with the professional verticum which belongs to them, but some of it is taken to the Prime Minister's Office, it is safe to say that the substantial part of it, where money, support and development is concerned, is not within the competence of the Ministry of Professional Affairs, but the Prime Minister's Office receives veto rights and even, in a particular way, public procurement responsibility, the economic operators can feel that there are irregular relations here. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck is replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki.]] And under disorderly circumstances, no doubt, no investors will come, no investments will increase. What you're experiencing right now is an EU boom. The result of the attic sweep is that the seven-year EU budget cycle ended at the end of 2013 and the extra spend has just been published, in the first quarter - this also shows that it will not be sustainable - and in view of this, I would like to draw the government's attention to the demands for dynamism of the progress of the debate, so that it does not further undermine the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy with such legislative proposals, but takes itself seriously, take the opposition seriously and carry out responsible legislation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[16.10]]
u2014-06-19-219	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-220	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond in a weird way to my fellow groups, István Hiller and Gergő Bárándy, when they asked how this legislation worked, when János Lazarus, the defender of culture, and János Lázár, the developer of industry, were confronted with what would happen. It reminds me of a story where a one-time man plays chess with himself and steps with the white man, and then when he goes over to the other side of the square, he's glad that the white man missed this step. I think it can be seen that it is impossible for a minister to be forced into conflicting roles when he has to decide at the same time that an industrial investment, which is an environmental burden but, for example, creates jobs, how to achieve or how to develop an industrial development when cultural values have not been explored in that area. Well, I don't think a man has ever been born who can play chess with himself at the same time that both white and black will win at the end. I therefore suggest that you do not force your own ministers into such impossible situations, because this does not lead to good governance. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-221	Thank you very much. Mr László Teleki of the MSZP Group will be able to give a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not want to abuse anyone's time, but I think it is very important to give some thought to why I do not think this law is good in this form. I think that if the government is responsible for the issue of domestic minorities, it should be dealt with in proportion to its weight. I recognise that Zoltán Balog has done a great deal to improve the situation of Roma in Hungary, but I think that it should be considered and considered that when we say very often within Parliament, outside Parliament, that the issue and integration of Roma in Hungary is a social problem, it should be recorded correctly in the Statute or put elsewhere. I say this because I consider coordination to be a very important aspect in this area, in the case of all 13 Hungarian minorities, once again, but I definitely consider it important in the life of the Roma society. In order to ensure that coordination is transparent, I think that Roma integration should be noted in a central place, the situation of minorities, because when we talk about education - and very often MEP Járóka Lívia said that it is an economic issue in many cases - but I do see that there are a lot of areas in the Ministry of Human Resources, but I do not see how it will be coordinated, let us say, with the economy and other areas. That is why I would consider it important that it be noted elsewhere, because the transparency and accountability of what they have done in minority matters is very important. My fellow Members have said many times in today's speeches that I would like to highlight employment and vocational training, an area that can settle Roma integration in the long term, which, by the way, we have heard here in Parliament a lot of times about how important it would be, because of a lot of things. For example, housing subsidies would then be reduced, social aid would be reduced and it could be said why it is important to focus on employment issues. You can also work in the listed ministry, the Ministry of Human Resources, but I think that education can work there, but what I am talking about is that there is no way to see how this issue will be dealt with in its entire spectrum within the government. That is why I think it is important that we look at it and consider whether the national issue we consider to be a minority is in the right place today. Because when we say that it is a national matter, we also use the word that we are talking about a total social problem when we are talking about the issue of the Roma and we are not dealing with it in the right place. So I think that it would be very important if we used the term "national" a very often and as a whole social issue, to address the Roma issue in accordance with its weight, and to put it to a top body that fully understands what professional principles the programmes are based on, and another very important question is what kind of funding it is. It can be seen in many cases that funding is not transparent. For example, Roma education scholarships. At the moment, this source is being treated at the Wekerle Sándor Fund Manager, and I think that this source is completely okay, but we do not see what we have seen a lot of times in the previous government, how much money we spend on Roma education scholarships and what results will be obtained from it. Many people think it is good that today we cannot see how much money is spent on scholarships, on Roma children, and on the contrary, I would ask that it be made visible, because the taxpayers' money must be spent in such a way that he can see that, let's say, the biggest problem in the Roma case is how he can develop, and how many children get scholarships from which he can go to college, university, secondary school or vocational school and use that resource to the extent necessary. So I think, therefore, once again, that if this area were in the top place, it would be comforting for me, because then the issue of employment and education could certainly be linked to the economic issue. Once again, I would like to say that I did not have any problems with Zoltán Balog and I do not have any problems, but I would definitely consider it important that this area be placed in such a place. Thank you so much for the audition.
u2014-06-19-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-19-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If I had answered you two hours ago, we would have been in a heated political debate, but so, at the end of the debate, I try to stick to the technical facts and not talk about your Lazarus phobia, or I won't talk about the winner's responsibility, and the losers think they're right. I'm not gonna talk about these axioms. I'd rather talk about the government's freedom of organisation. The freedom of government organisation is a constitutional principle which is generally respected by the Parliament and the opposition groups in general. Of course, there has always been a debate on how the government develops its own working conditions, but I would like to say that the aim of all these changes is to ensure the effectiveness of governance. Of course, it is possible to argue about where certain professional tasks and certain implementation tasks should go, but I would like to draw two very important constitutional sentences from the Fundamental Law from the perspective of the Parliament. On the one hand, that the government is responsible for the Parliament's activities, on the other hand, that the members of the government are responsible for the Parliament, and, not least, the ministers are responsible for their activities to the Prime Minister. So there is a general responsibility for the government's work, and this general parliamentary responsibility also means ministerial responsibility, i.e. ministers are also responsible for the Parliament. Therefore, I do not understand your criticism that the Prime Minister's Office, which has been led so far by a State Secretary, would be less irresponsible than when the Prime Minister's Office is already led by a minister responsible for Parliament. So this model is much closer to parliamentary ministerial responsibility, and more specifically regulates the responsibility of the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in the same way. [[16.20]] I'm surprised you didn't object so far to the fact that you don't find ministerial responsibility here, although the Prime Minister's Office has had a number of professional tasks, even sectoral political tasks so far. So I think that our assessment, the government's assessment, is that with this ministerial responsibility, which was thus established by the Parliament for the Prime Minister's Office, the opposition representatives are better able to live, they are better able to control the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office. By the way, this has already happened, even today he has been interpelled, or during his hearing with the Commission, he has been informed on a number of issues. Undoubtedly, it has a broad portfolio, but Parliamentary Members may directly address and ultimately interpel to it questions in writing or orally. Government efficiency is served by amendments that combine certain tasks, and those tasks that are managed together are handed over to a minister, so that one minister can examine a number of aspects of the same case. I also did not fully understand in the criticism - during the criticisms of opposition - that ministries, other than ministers and ministries leading the Prime Minister's Office, are forced to play a purely executive role, so to speak, a second-rate task, an executive task. Let us conclude that the government itself is an organ of the general executive power, so by implementing the government's decisions and implementing their respective tasks of government decisions, which are otherwise united in government responsibility, there is no constitutional and I do not think there is any political problem. Such portfolio responsibilities remain in the hands of the great government responsibility and the Prime Minister's responsibilities. So from a constitutional point of view, with this government arrangement, I don't think there's any excuses. The question of political efficiency or even legal efficiency and administrative efficiency will not be measured now, but probably in a few years' time, whether these cases, these implementation tasks have been effective in this governance structure. Finally, let us make the observation that we are some of us who have long been Members of Parliament, and we have seen that many governments have tried different structures of government, that even the same majority of governments themselves have changed government responsibility. It clearly shows that there is no ideal model, there cannot be an ideal model for government responsibility, and it is also true that sometimes the individual of ministers determines the installation of certain responsibilities, since the competence of ministers greatly influences what tasks should be added to it. So I ask for your patience, for your patience in allowing this government structure to function, and in doing so, of course, I urge you to use all the means of parliamentary control that I think you have a much greater opportunity than in the current governance structure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Tuesday. Now it's 16 hours and 24 minutes. A general debate on the draft law on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system will follow up until closure. The submission was made in T/262. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will give his speech in the horseshoe in its place. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[László Földi takes his place in the notary seat.]]
u2014-06-19-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, One of the features of the international financial system was and is the fact that the critical situation of an institution affects a number of other financial institutions associated with it, often leading to problems with healthy banks, financial institutions or systemic tensions. In other words, the problem of an institution has caused a kind of chain reaction in several cases in the system, as if multiplying the harmful effects. EU decision-makers have also recognised this and, assuming its responsibility, have created a new regulatory framework for the way in which this phenomenon can be dealt with. There may be a situation where credit institutions and investment firms are in difficulty, which, by their size, carry systemic stability risks in terms of their customer base or any other parameter, and their difficult situation may result in a kind of spill-over effect. In this context, the so-called resolution framework was developed in the European Union, which aimed at strengthening the stability, strengthening and improving the safe functioning of the financial intermediary system. The purpose and task of this framework is to save credit institutions and investment firms, which are important for systemic stability, from the liquidation of the entire national economy or of the financial system as a whole, which results in losses and losses and losses, and to keep the institution or make it operational again, and to avoid liquidation. These frameworks were adopted by the European Council and the European Parliament in the form of directives. This Directive is addressed to the establishment of a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms or also known as the BRRD Directive. I just want to point out that this is a fully positive regulation, because it is preventive regulation, as a first step, aimed at restoration, which the institution itself, the credit institution or the investment firm, can do through decisions and changes affecting its operation. In this case, material intervention by the authority, or, let us say, supervision, is not necessary, because, in the first signs, the institution itself, at the request and control of the supervisory authority, resolves the temporary operational problems on the basis of a recovery plan that was developed much earlier. Another key word of the directive is resolution, whose use of the common language differs significantly from the true original meaning of the word, it is very far from it, it received a pejorative content or it has been given by the common language by now, the Hungarian at least. However, resolution comes from the Latin term sanitas - health - or Sanus or Sanare, which is the true meaning of healing, making it healthy. This is precisely the purpose of this regulation, so resolution acts must be envisaged as a therapy involving a kind of surgical intervention, the purpose of which is to ensure that the institution is healthy again, or at least healthy parts of it can continue to function, do not have to close the entire institution or liquidate it. So we have to put this into a customer-centred, operational context, and I think that's how we should think about it, and that's not the cost of doing it for the taxpayers. This is very important, and I would like to come back to this more often. In addition to the above-mentioned objectives, four objectives of resolution could be set. It is appropriate to maintain the critical functions of the institution, i.e. to ensure the material functioning of the institution. This would be the first, so that the institution, which is in difficulty, retains its critical functions affecting its essential functioning. [[16.30]] Secondly, and not secondly, only in second place, these objectives are equal, and the protection of depositors and investors appears as a basis, so that the protection provided by the OBA and BEVA remains unchanged. The protection also applies to money that is otherwise owned by a third party, but also managed, in an unchanged form and extent. Thirdly, it is a priority to protect public money, i.e. the exceptional financial support provided by the State, if any, if necessary, should be avoided, but if any, it should only appear to the least extent. This is a priority objective of both the EU directive and the domestic bill that we have brought you. Fourthly, I would like to mention the objective, which is already reflected in the text and title of the law, in the title of the bill, that it is what this regulation is trying to achieve that is to maintain confidence, to enhance stability. Honourable Members, The draft law on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system, i.e. the regulatory basis of the proposed legislation in question, was adopted in May and announced last week, the EU directive on the resolution framework, which opens up new opportunities in several cardinal points, provides a solution for credit institutions and investment firms to emerge from the difficult institutional situation. As I have said, resolution in the common language has become a kind of scary expression in recent decades or centuries, I do not know, even though I cannot stress that its real content in this case offers exactly positive opportunities, we want to get out of resolution and ensure the possibility of recovery with this regulation. The institution is struggling, but the point is that, within a reasonable framework, it is appropriate to save some or all of the institution's effectiveness, rather than eliminate it, because liquidation, bankruptcy, which is avoided by this option, would cause serious problems for other players or for the financial system as a whole, and would be a high price. That's the price to avoid. If the institution is not in such trouble that liquidation and bankruptcy are justified, but can still be saved, and keeping it alive is a good and good decision, and this cannot be done using public money, then this must be done. Of course, keeping financial institutions alive is often associated with a negative tone just because of what I have already mentioned on several occasions. Everyone is thinking about using public money, our own taxpayers' forints, because in the past this has not been unprecedented. I would therefore like to say immediately that one of the basic principles of the regulatory framework is that public money, the taxpayers' money, should not be used. One of the main elements of the bill is the establishment of a resolution fund, which is a mass of money from the payment of fees to credit institutions and financial undertakings gradually over years, which provides a source of burden in the event of a subsequent resolution procedure. Once I have clarified what resolution is and what is the purpose of this, the conditions must also be discussed: under what conditions can a resolution procedure be launched? It is not possible to simply address an institution, of course the bill contains a serious set of conditions. One element of this is the realization or very strong likelihood of a statutory insolvency situation. There should also be a condition that no other measures can restore the operation, so that the resolution measure can only follow, that the principle of graduality is met, that it should be possible to attempt recovery along the smallest measures, and that only if this fails can we take stronger steps. The third necessary condition is that the public interest justifies the application of one of the resolution instruments, thus affecting a greater mass, having an impact on the financial sector, a number of institutions or the economy as a whole. These three conditions should be combined in order to initiate the resolution process. Dear Parliament, The continuity of possible resolution of credit institutions and financial institutions, i.e. essential functions of institutions, is necessary in order to preserve financial stability. This is based on resolution planning, i.e. identifying possible resolution measures and procedures that can be applied to those institutions. The National Bank has already been designated as a resolution authority last year, and the National Bank is now receiving powers that enable the resolution process to be implemented. This means that the MNB decides which institutions and groups to prepare for such a resolution plan. This is the starting point, and we start from here in the event of difficulties in the life of an institution, so the resolution authority can move quickly, efficiently and along a well-thought-out schedule to re-establish the institution's therapy and proper functioning. Therefore, the resolution plan is basically already prepared, it is in the desk drawer and is only taken out if the resolution conditions are met, but it is now possible to intervene immediately on the basis of the completed resolution plan and no time loss. The fundamental feature of this is that the time factor is extremely important, so that appropriate therapy can be started as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, I referred to the resolution tools before I remembered the resolution plan here, let's look at what they are. Four possible resolution tools are mentioned in the bill by the fact that one so-called asset separation can only be used in conjunction with another resolution tool. This is because the separation of assets is in fact the separation of a non-viable part of the institution and the continued functioning of the remaining critical functions in the resolution process, the separation of assets alone does not solve the task. Although we do not set a chronological order for the application of individual resolution instruments, the measure that is primarily applicable would in principle be the sale of assets, i.e. the transfer of all or some of the assets, rights and obligations of the institution under resolution to market participants. If this is not possible, the transfer would be made to a bridging institution. This so-called bridging institution would be created specifically for the purpose of applying the resolution instrument and would be wholly or partly owned or controlled by the resolution fund or the State. Following the separation of assets, the sale of assets and the bridging institution, the proposed law refers to the so-called creditor recapitalisation instrument as the fourth means of resolution. This applies the principle that the capital position of an institution close to bankruptcy, its long-term viability, should be settled by burdening the owners and creditors of that institution instead of taxpayers. This resolution tool should not apply to claims that are secured or otherwise guaranteed, and should therefore, in particular, not affect deposits provided by the Deposit Insurance Fund and remain protected under all circumstances. The bill provides for the description and conversion of the capital elements of the institution in difficulty as a separate resolution measure from resolution instruments. In practice, this means that the claims of those with subordinated capital are described or reduced to share ownership, or that the share of shareholders' ownership is reduced as a result of new membership shares being issued and therefore dilutions are made among shareholders. [[16.40]] These measures can be applied either independently or without the use of a resolution tool, or in some cases would be not only an option but also an obligation. Therefore, in order to prevent the use of other resolution instruments, the owners of subordinated loan capital and the loss write-offs of capital holders. Dear House, I have already mentioned that the National Bank was appointed to the resolution authority last year, so that it is now endowed with a system of tools to use appropriate therapy and a cure for the public good in the case of credit institutions and financial firms involved in this way, primarily from public funds to the resolution fund, which I cannot stress. The aim of the current establishment and implementation of the regulatory framework is to enable the resolution authority, i.e. the National Bank, to prepare sufficiently in due time to carry out the tasks entrusted to it by the law, including the development of resolution plans and the launch of the winding-up fund. I have also said that, but I would like to emphasise once again that, in addition to the proper regulation of the use of public funds, the other fundamental issue is the protection of small depositors. In setting up the resolution framework by law, it is of particular importance that small deposits, i.e. deposits below EUR 100 thousand or, in other words, deposits provided by the OBA, as well as investments made by BEVA up to EUR 20 000 by the Investor Protection Fund, remain protected under all circumstances. There are no losses for customers here. Honourable Members, The primary objective of the bill before you is, therefore, to develop regulation to enhance their operational stability with regard to credit institutions and their investments, i.e. financial institutions, the main actors in the financial intermediary system, in the context of the EU framework, of course, taking into account the structure and global nature of the institutional system. To sum up, I would just like to say that the proposed legislation aims at maintaining security and stability in the financial sector and results in a balanced, customer-friendly financial environment and financial institutional functioning. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, who will give his speech here on the stand. I'll wait for Congressman to get up on the stand. Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-228	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear House of Representatives, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us is not for nothing before Parliament, because in recent years there have been a number of events in Hungary, the world and the European Union that have required an overview of the legislative background regarding the stability of the financial system. The economic and financial crisis has also highlighted that, in terms of the rules of the European Union, the regulatory unit of the financial sector must not only focus on the establishment, operation and customer interests that were previously normal, but also prepare for negative events in the area of regulation and develop alternatives to action, which, unfortunately, we have found a number of examples over the past few years. In the course of the crisis, a number of major banks have failed, which have basically shaken the economies of either the world or some countries, whether Lehman Brothers, Anglo Irish Bank or certain Icelandic banks. These events have revealed regrettably serious shortcomings in the existing legislation. During the global crisis, national authorities have faced problems that have never, or at least very rarely, occurred before. The European Union's financial system has recently become so integrated that shocks or disturbances on national markets have quickly and unfortunately been very easily transmitted from one EU Member State to another. Accordingly, the European Union has prepared uniform arrangements for resolution of certain financial sector institutions. The deadline for transposition of the Directives shall be 31 December 2014 and shall apply as appropriate from 1 January of the following year. It is important to stress that the Commission is in a sort of emergency situation with regard to the crisis. It is necessary to establish a single harmonised resolution framework, a directive, which will also contribute to the functioning of the SME system in its design. The main line of the draft Banking Resolution Act, as Mr Secretary of State has said, must be to strengthen ownership and creditors' commitments in the event of any bankruptcy of banks rather than the burden on taxpayers. This is why one of the main points of the proposal is the creation of a resolution fund that credit institutions and investment firms have to fill with their payments. It will also be the responsibility of the Fund to provide resources in crisis situations, so it will relieve the use of public funds that are not necessary for this purpose, and taxpayers will ultimately be exempted from the burden of bank resolution without the State guarantee. Of course, the State cannot fully withdraw from this market, so the regulation remains that the State can temporarily finance resolution in the event of such problems, but under very strict rules, all resolution payments must be reimbursed to the State within ten years. So, ultimately, its most important point, which is perhaps understandable to everyone, to all Hungarian citizens, and which is the most important motivating factor in the Fidesz faction's support for this proposal, is that in the future, in the case of bank failures, the public will essentially be free from the burdens left here by such bank failures, and indeed the investors and owners, i.e. the investors and owners of the banks, will bear this burden. Moreover, the global financial crisis has shown that more precise and forward-looking regulation is needed to address the situation of potentially troubled banks and financial institutions. In response to the crisis, the European Union has developed the framework to tackle financial difficulties in a new way. In essence, the bill provides for resolution rules for financial institutions on the basis of the new EU directive. During the crisis that started in 2007, as I mentioned, there are a number of examples of why this rule should be made, a number of countries have been in a position to use state resources to help troubled banks and financial institutions, which has also happened in Hungary in order to preserve the stability of the financial system. In many cases, this has led to almost a country's bankruptcy. Here, perhaps it is enough to bring only Ireland's 2010 example to Parliament, where the Irish State was forced to take up a total of EUR 85 billion of loans in order to escape the bankruptcy of the state. The rescue package provided by the European Union and the IMF was therefore necessary because Ireland's banking system was essentially on the brink of collapse. By the way, as a deterrent example, the Irish government debt increased from 25 per cent before the crisis to 123 per cent of gross domestic product. So if anyone has any doubt as to why such a resolution legislation should be established, then the Irish example of future threats, where public debt has increased almost fivefold because of a bank failure, is a warning example and provides a sufficient basis to support this bill. [[16.50]] Resolution is a forced restructuring of failing financial institutions with a view to preserving financial stability. Resolution rules also prevent the liquidation of an institution in distress from causing a prolonged spill-over crisis in the financial intermediary system or a further negative impact. The draft law designates the National Bank as a resolution authority, provides the Bank with an adequate set of instruments and another important element of the proposal is that, where justified, some non-budgetary instruments will ensure the continued viability and functioning of the financial institution in difficulty. During the resolution procedure, the National Bank may use instruments set out in different laws. Among other things, the sale of assets. In this case, the National Bank is entitled to transfer shares, assets, liabilities, rights and liabilities issued by the institution to a market receiver. The bridging institution shall provide an opportunity for the buyer of the shares to be an entity wholly or partly owned by the State or under the control of the State. The essence of the asset separation institution is that the National Bank, acting in the resolution function, transfers assets and liabilities of the institution or bridging institution under resolution to one or more resolution trustee entities. The resolution trustee shall manage the transferred asset with the aim of maximising the burden, the losses that citizens or the State may suffer through the possible sale of the assets or the liquidation of the assets. In the case of the institution of the creditor recapitalisation, the National Bank has decided to include liabilities under the procedure in a sequence. In the first instance, subordinated loan capital will be involved, after which the claims of the parent company will be included, followed by savings not already protected by large investors and protected large depositors, i.e. BEVA and OVA, and, finally, savings above the compensation limits for deposits protected by OVA and BEVA will be included. These savings are overdue and represent debt. Following the recapitalisation of the creditors, they will be converted into shares, so they will not be able to expire at any time. In particular cases, the government may also use the option provided by the law, a resolution tool, namely a forced capital increase or nationalisation. However, it is important to say that no owner would be in a worse position in such proceedings than he would have been in after a liquidation. Another important aspect in order to protect depositors is that deposits below EUR 100,000 are still protected by the framework under all circumstances, so that small depositors cannot be lost. Perhaps this is the other most important item of the bill. As stated in the EU Directive, all Member States will have to put in place their national resolution framework from 1 January 2015 and we hope that these systems will be uniform at European level in their main lines. The social debate of the bill took place, in consultation with the Hungarian Banking Association, the Investment Services Association, the National Association of Savings and the Integration Organization of Cooperative Credit Institutions prior to the submission. Dear House, Mr President, Based on what has been said and the very negative examples of earlier years, I think that Hungary, the Hungarian people, but I also dare to risk that the Hungarian banking system also needs very much to have a regulatory system, a resolution system in Hungary that protects national interests, protects the money of the Hungarian state and Hungarian citizens. That is what this bill is about, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support it in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After very serious preparations, this resolution law came before the House, and it is true that resolution stems from the Latin expression of sanitary healing, i.e. mutilation healing, and this has indeed had a result throughout history when the larger part survived and not the smaller one. However, in addition to the fact that the objective of the proposal can, of course, be accepted, that maintaining financial stability and ensuring the continued availability of critical or critical functions provided by the financial sector is the aim of the proposal, and, if it is to develop or even prevent institutional crises, or if they have developed, their management, thereby minimizing the use of taxpayers' money for crisis management purposes, and creating the necessary framework for the restructuring of financial entities in crisis. This is indeed an EU harmonisation requirement. The crisis has led to the need for authorisation to have legal authorisation for such transformations. So, if I am in good faith, then this is a perfectly appropriate proposal, which, in substance, is about ensuring that the orderly settlement of failing financial institutions and financed by the private sector can be achieved, an opportunity that clearly clarifies the legal framework. It is also interesting and, after all, appropriate that resolution, the forced restructuring of insolvent financial institutions by a kind of risk dispersion among economic operators, constitutes an alternative to the normal insolvency or winding-up procedure, which allows the reorganisation, possibly partial, of institutions arriving at or near the limit of insolvency, and thus the further operation of the larger part. The bill correctly defines the preparation for crisis situations and the specific crisis management and its financing background. The financing background is essentially the creation of a crisis management fund, which is the market itself, I think, in proportion to their talent, although it may also be created as a simple entry fee. Whether this measure is sufficient or whether its existence already creates a kind of guarantee, it creates a kind of trust, which can then be determined on the basis of experience. The Hungarian National Bank as a resolution authority receives the detailed rules for exercising its powers in this law. These are the detailed rules: the process of resolution planning, whereby the National Bank, acting in the resolution function, will examine the resolvability of all major credit institutions and investment firms and decide on individual and group resolution plans, may decide to prepare for effective assistance at the time of the crisis. [[17.00]] That actually sounds good, but if you think about it, it's gonna give the National Bank an extraordinary driver's license. On the one hand, what was previously required by the State Audit Office of Financial Institutions - at that time the profession called stress tests after the crisis - the Hungarian financial institutions have achieved quite good results, it can be said that better than the financial institutions of many other states in Europe. At the same time, the National Bank will now have the opportunity to decide who's the good bank, who can stay together, who's the bad bank, who's got to be torn apart, who's got to be cut off. This can, of course, be for curative purposes, and also for the purpose of getting more cooperation for those who do not think cooperation seriously enough. So, in a rule of law, this can work well. I don't want to use an excessive term, but let's just say, in the context of the transformation process of a financial system specifically controlled by fidesz background interests, we don't know that it's reassuring. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank examines the process of resolution, which can be initiated if a strict three-conditional set-up is met, as follows. On the one hand, it is a necessary condition that insolvency occurs or is likely to occur. Now, that's one of those quagmire points that makes it possible. On the other hand, insolvency cannot be prevented by other means than resolution; it is also difficult to objectiveise an assessment aspect, there may be experiential elements, but it is ultimately a decision on this or that. Thirdly, resolution is necessary in view of the public interest and therefore protects depositors' money and the functioning of the entire financial system. During resolution, the rights of owners and other creditors of institutions in difficulty may be limited. In Hungarian, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can replace the management or place it under guardianship, place commissioners who override the management's licenses. This also results in a limited case law. This limitation is always done in the public interest, of course, and can be done in a proportionate manner - but who decides to be proportionate to what? The resolution tools are also determined by the Magyar Nemzet Bank, with which it can act in its resolution function. This sale of assets, i.e. what it takes out of the assets of the financial institution to be wound up for the sale of assets, what bridging institutional structure it creates, the separation, blocking, re-rating of assets, and the recapitalisation of creditors. For example, the National Bank will play a significant role here, and it is not very reassuring that, let's say, the National Bank spends a hundred billion dollars on real estate and art purchases, so that we can be confident that it does not want to transfer a financial institution in another's hands through resolution to a different ownership structure. In special cases, the government itself may use resolution tools, namely a forced capital increase or nationalisation. Well, it's a pretty Dodonian part, and it's more scary than comforting. However, the guarantee rule protecting important owners and creditors is that no creditor or owner should be placed in a worse position during resolution than would have been in the situation in which the institution would have been wound up. Now, that's a beautiful, beautiful sentence, because no one can tell you what kind of situation you would have been in during the liquidation, which didn't happen, so you can't quantify it. So, from prognosis like this, of course, you can say something about it, but it doesn't seem very exact. I am very pleased that Mr Kristóf Szatmáry said that there has been a professional preparation and debate, but let us say that I would be happy to make the presentation if the resume of this could be better understood. Because I have also heard concerns after these professional debates, that it doesn't matter who tells me which is the good bank, which is the no, which is how to deal with it, which is different. Therefore, the resolution basis to be established for the financing of resolution is positive, of course, to have such a guarantee that the resolution body will manage the payment of credit institutions and investment firms. The purpose of the resolution fund is not to save banks, but to assist the resolution measures implemented by, for example, loans or guarantees. Of course, its scale would not allow it to be used for bank rescue purposes, because it will be much more modest than that. The reason for setting up the resolution fund, which was rightly stated in the State Secretary's proposal, is the EU principle that the burden of crises should be borne by market players, because that is not always the case in the temporary management of the financial crisis. In the Greek crisis management, we managed to make a deal that market players took about 50 percent of the descriptions, but the other 50 percent had to be solved with the taxpayers' money. According to the fiscal neutrality rule, all resolution payments by the State should be reimbursed up to 10 years later, on the one hand, from the sale of the institution under resolution and its assets and from market participants. This again means or may mean the protection of the community, i.e. taxpayers. In the opinion of the MSZP, the primary task of government economic policy would not be to establish rules for the resolution of banks and model financial crises that are currently, thank God, not expected to occur. In our view, the task of government economic policy should be to promote the creation of a regulatory and business environment that serves the stability and strengthening of a guaranteeing financial intermediary system for the oiled operation of the economy. So, although that is also the stated purpose of this law, we do not see how other economic policies serve this purpose. This requirement primarily means predictable, predictable and transparent legislation and enforcement. This has not been practiced in the last four years, and this cycle has also been started with legal measures and legislation, which is clearly a cause for concern. In developing rules for the financial intermediary system, emphasis should be placed on the ability to recognise and adequately manage risks by administrative means, whether already in the course of authorisation. For this, we believe that it is possible to merge PSZAF into the Hungarian National Bank, so it is practically an extension of the professional background, but this should also be practiced. The real aim of the bill is probably to free certain financial institutions, currently with a significant degree of credit, from the contribution of the rest of the banking sector, with the assistance of the National Bank, and at the same time to give these financial institutions a competitive advantage at the expense of the other sectoral players. This concern exists, some of which are, to say, financial institutions that Fidesz otherwise loves or is of Fidesz interest. [[17.10]] The pudding rehearsal when it's eaten. I hope it will not be a bitter experience when this law is applied. With all due regard, we accept harmonisation; given the uncertainties, we think about how much we can support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-231	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Volner, who is speaking here on the stand. I'll wait for the congressman to take over. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-232	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a bill that is perhaps less interested in the public, but the profession, I think, is paying attention to this bill, because in 2008 there was a global economic crisis that basically started in the financial sector. The spill-over effects of this are still felt by the Hungarian economy, and we are still exposed to the international risks and circumstances that caused this crisis. I think it is very important that we define how far Jobbik's opinion and value can extend the competence of the nation state on certain issues; how far the powers the European Union wants to exercise in the field of monetary policy and prudential supervision; and where we would draw these limits. The Hungarian Revolution of 1848 had a very important objective of restoring Hungary's monetary autonomy, i.e. being an independent Hungarian national bank. At present, Hungary is in a state where the European Central Bank supervises the National Bank of Hungary under the National Bank Act, and only the European Central Bank can give it instructions. By the way, this is such a harsh intervention in the area of national sovereignty, which Viktor Orbán himself virtually denied in the radio interview with him. So this is a question that Jobbik obviously disagrees with. However, as the Hungarian banking system is strongly integrated with other international banks, we support the establishment of a joint action to ensure the safe functioning of the financial intermediary system, so that crisis phenomena and bank failures such as the 2008 crisis can be dealt with more effectively than previously. We also found it interesting that when the Orbán government created the Act on the National Bank of Hungary and the Laws on the State Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions - these were completely new laws governing separate institutions - how not thought about what was happening with this extremely important area. The National Assembly has created new laws, with a two-thirds Fidesz mandate, which passed very easily through the House, and later, as a result of the lack of thought, these two institutions have, after all, been drawn together into one supermanage, and this leads to the conclusion that the years of Fidesz in eight oppositions have not been enough to think about what institutional system it considers desirable in the field of monetary policy, in the area of prudential supervision. It is worth looking at what this bill contains. It makes Magyar Nemzeti Bank a resolution authority in this area governing financial institutions, entrusts it with the development of resolution plans. I have read the 159-page EU directive adopted at the Ecofin conference on 6 May this year, which regulates this issue. I must say that the Hungarian legislation as a whole complies with that provision. What I am very sorry about, however, is that the global economic crisis occurred in the autumn of 2008. Dear gentlemen, it was almost six years ago. In six years, we've come to the conclusion that there's even a bill on this. And I would like to stress that demagogy is not speaking of me; I am not blaming the government in this area in the first place, because international, coordinated action would be needed to reduce the vulnerability of the banking system and reduce its spill-over effects. I blame the European Union for not being able to take uniform action at regulatory level for nearly six years. This is not the fault of the Hungarian government. It was, in a small part, obviously his fault, but in a large part, it was the European Union's fault. I also find it very interesting that, while the Hungarian banking system was integrated into the international banking world, it was linked to it at several points in terms of capital exposure, while it was not possible to achieve a meaningful focus on this issue sooner, even though it is known that the lessons learned from the bank failures in 2008-2009 were that the effects were converging and that the bankruptcy of a large bank would have a domino effect. Where appropriate, intra-group risks shall be addressed. If a larger banking group falls in, the lessons learned in recent years have a very serious impact on the real economy and the impact is spilling over to other economic sectors. What we agree with is the principle that this bill strengthens ownership and creditors' obligations, in line with EU directives, and not with public money, it is trying to solve the problems of banks in difficulty. This is important because there have been many states in the world, including in the European Union, whose sovereign debt has increased enormously because the financial problems of irresponsible creditors and financial institutions in distress have been dealt with through public funds and increased public debt in order to save them. We agree, of course, that the resolution fund that this law, banks and other financial institutions and investment service providers are meant to create should be filled with money; in this way, there should be a fund that helps a credit institution in distress to be put in an acceptable position instead of using public funds, where appropriate. We propose that the Banking Association participate in the work of this fund, not with the right to vote, but with the right to consult. The reason for our proposal is simple. As much as we Hungarians do not like banks at the moment, as it can be said that there is a fundamentally anti-bank spirit in the country, the banking sector is indeed needed; the Banking Confederation, I think, is necessary in the work of the Fund, because it is they who have practical experience of the problems that arise. It is also important to channel these opinions. We have some reservations, which in part evaluates and evaluates the work of the government, but in particular this applies only to the European Union. On the one hand, there are eight Member States, at least what I have been able to explore, I have found eight Member States that have already partially transposed into their own practice these resolution rules, which are contained in this 159-page EU directive. However, in order for this banking system to be really protected from risks, much more than it is now, it would be necessary to introduce these measures at the same time in all EU Member States. Now let me light it up with market logic. If I am a creditor of a commercial bank or more, because I am an investor and these resolution rules are introduced in Hungary, I may be bitten off a little of my money in order to put them into the resolution fund, what are they doing to me? A competitive disadvantage in Hungary, i.e. I am encouraged to choose a bank, to start financing a bank that is not subject to such rules. In Hungary, thanks to the law, there will be no such bank, and unfortunately, the risk is realistic that some bank-lending investors will take their money elsewhere and Hungary will suffer a competitive disadvantage. Nevertheless, I say that this bill should be supported, but we would have been much more advanced if there had been coordinated action on the part of the European Union, and not if eight Member States introduced it, or if we joined it as the ninth, because it would have benefited those to whom investors will take their money. [[17.20]] Here I would like to draw attention - I attended several professional conferences, and I read the economic press regularly, as appropriate - that one of the most commonly used words is deleveraging, reducing bank leverage. Hungary went through this. Commercial banks took terrible money out of the country. It can be seen that with this legislation, if we put these resolution rules in place before other EU Member States, the banks must reach deeper into their pockets and fill up the resolution fund, unfortunately the Hungarian economy will be at a competitive disadvantage. It's worth thinking about. I propose to the government, although this was generally a small idea, that they should be more effective in enforcing these proposals not only for Hungarian national interests, but also for proposals in the interest of the European Community as a whole. I would also like to point out that, in part, I am obliged, as a Member, to make the proposals of improving intentions, partly because, perhaps, it can be said that when we raised a proposal of improving intent at the Economic Commission meeting, namely to convert two-week paper from a bond into a deposit, and thus exclude from the Hungarian commercial banking system banks that are not resident in Hungary, yet keep their money in two-week papers and realise a level of interest that is significantly higher than Western Europe, I think this was a forward-looking proposal. The government obviously doesn't like to thank Jobbik at a press conference for coming up with the idea, boys, it was good, but it's done. That's what I'm interested in, because I feel responsible for this nation. I therefore consider it very important for the government to think about adopting these proposals. It is also worth taking into account, as a proposal, that the uploading of this resolution fund with the current pace will not produce an amount of money in years, from which a medium or possibly larger bank can be saved, and its position can be consolidated. Therefore, it is worth considering that, at the beginning, we may be able to make a higher rate of payment to the banks in order for the resolution fund to pass faster and that this higher rate of payment will be replaced by a lower rate of payment. This must, of course, be done in such a way as to ensure the predictability of the Hungarian business environment by laying down every step of uploading a multi-annual bank resolution fund, by predicting how much to pay tomorrow, by how much to pay next year, and by five years. This is the predictable business environment. The balance sheet of the banks gives the size of the deposits, so it is easy to calculate in advance for the banks as well as for the management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, acting as the resolution authority, with the amount of money that you can expect, and what action plan can be achieved from this. I therefore recommend to Parliament as a whole that we adopt and support this bill, since it contains very important principles of law, very important changes in principle, such as the fact that we do not use public money to resolve the consolidation of banks in difficulty, but with respect to the government, I ask that the improvements made by Jobbik be considered and incorporated into later government practice. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-19-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, is next, the notary of the Parliament, who will also speak on the stand. I'll wait for the congresswoman, notary, to get up on the stand. I give you the floor, please.
u2014-06-19-234	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The bill is primarily about national banking resolution regulations in line with EU directives. At the same time, it is not right to keep quiet that, in addition to public finance-saving solutions, the regulation allows the MNB's so-called bad banking concept to be implemented, i.e. the government's transfer of a thousand billion HUF of failed corporate credit to Hungary's financial reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP endorses the fact that a bill has finally been drawn up to bring the financial situation of credit institutions in distress to a regulated stage. Of course, we also support the reconfirmation of the state-sanctioned protection of bank deposits below EUR 100 thousand under all circumstances. We agree that if, in the future, the MNB detects serious problems with a credit institution or a brokerage company, it will examine whether it is appropriate to avoid the closure of that institution by means of resolution, i.e. non-state aid. Resolution is the classic way of assisting banks in which central banks try to transfer services and credit holdings of a credit institution in difficulty within a regulated framework to another market participant as soon as possible at a value reduced by liabilities. This form of bank rescue does not cost taxpayers money, and market participants will make payments to a resolution fund in order to operate the system. We can conclude that resolution is an alternative to public-funded expensive bank bailouts. So far, the proposal is in order. The problems start when it turns out that the classic resolution toolbox is not a sufficient solution to the rapid resolution of the accumulated poor loan. The resolution directive and the legislative proposal before us also allow for the use of other financial instruments, such as bridge bank or bad bank asset separation solutions. In the case of a bridge bank, important stocks will be transferred to a temporarily existing public bank until subsequent market sale, while in the case of a bad bank, problematic assets of dubious value will be removed from the balance sheet of the institution in difficulty in order to clean up and facilitate its sale. According to the ideas of the Hungarian government and the central bank led by Matolcsy, the central bank and the state would finance the bad bank, not the resolution, in which they would collect dubious loans to help the recovery of corporate lending. According to the news, they intend to purchase over HUF 400 billion of poorly deposited corporate loans, which have already been written down, at a cost of HUF 1000 billion, in the framework of the central bank's programme, which will be launched in September. According to Matolcsy's statement, it's a necessity. But what is the compulsion to charge the cost of bad corporate credit to the state, the taxpayers? Perhaps it is that otherwise corporate lending would not recover, or because the economy is not performing better, or because despite the six billion-dollar advertising tender, the growth credit programme has failed. Or something else is the coercion that justifies the rapid spending of central bank reserves. Why the government and the central bank's misconception failed? Firstly, it is extremely difficult to establish the real value and the price for problematic loans. For example, OTP had a provision for 80% of the value of the problematic loan pool, so it could benefit if the State took over its bad loans at 40% of the book value. Secondly, it is not only about creating the necessary capital, but also about getting rid of these bad loans in a long time. For this reason, it would be tied down for a number of years and would not profit in any way from investing in the creation of a bad bank. Thirdly, the use of so-called other money market instruments, such as bad bank, real estate purchases and extraordinary credit, by the central bank led by Matolcsy, is likely to continue to be characterised by opaque, uncontrolled decisions and processes at the expense of our common money and reserves. [[17 .30]] A further problem with direct purchases of central banks is that central banks also play the role of regulatory authorities in the money market, so there may be a situation where the central bank is present in the same market as an investor and as a supervisor. It's like when the judge gets into the game at the soccer game, and every once in a while, he starts giving passes, shooting goals. In some respects, the bad bank would operate in the same way as the national asset manager for families in need who are in trouble, unable to pay their loans. But while the government and the central bank would take commercial real estate loans, i.e. loans behind the financing of offices, plasák and hotels, for more than HUF 400 billion during the implementation of the bad banking concept, the government and the central bank received a total of HUF 28 billion in recent years to help families in severe crisis. They're talkative numbers about how much you're worth and how much you're worth. It is unacceptable for LMP to purchase real estate projects from available domestic sources instead of helping families in trouble without their own faults, and to provide loans for profitable green investments that create jobs. But of course, there is a reason for everything: according to the President of the Central Bank, some foreign-owned banks in Hungary have been given signals that they would leave the country. According to Matolcsy's signal, by cleaning the portfolio of bad loans out of the bank balance sheets, promising new customers can apply to some Hungarian banks, i.e. the central bank would support the overall process of changing the banking system's ownership by taking over poorly placed corporate loans. In Hungarian: our central bank takes the losses of banks to be sold in its sphere of interest out of hundreds of billions of our common tax forints. This is unacceptable. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-06-19-235	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now, according to the resolution rule, the first independent Member to apply would have the opportunity to speak if a single independent Member were to be present in the Chamber. Since this is not the case, we will continue with the proper speeches. From the Fidesz Group, it is up to Congressman Roland Mengyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the financial crisis that started in 2008, governments, both in and outside the EU, spent heavy amounts of public money to support their financial sectors, save their banks, preserve financial stability, curb the further real economic downturn and preserve financial stability in order to protect depositors, which has sometimes led to over-indebtedness in states. Moreover, in cases where no bank rescue has taken place, the occurrence of insolvency and the start of liquidation have had a serious infectious effect on the financial system as a whole. The speakers before me have explained, with a positive intention and a conceptual political attack, the means by which the Hungarian National Bank can use during the resolution procedure, but it is important to stress the objectives and considerations that we cannot lose sight of and the central bank can follow during the resolution procedure. An important objective of the resolution procedure is to protect public resources, to eliminate or eliminate the effects that could threaten the stability of the financial intermediary system. Another important aspect is the protection of deposits provided by the National Deposit Insurance Fund and the investments provided by the Investor Protection Fund, as well as the confidence of depositors and investors in the stability of the financial intermediary system. Resolution can only be initiated if a strict set of three criteria is met. On the one hand, the opening of resolution requires that insolvency is likely to occur or occur. It is also necessary not to prevent insolvency by means other than resolution. Furthermore, it is a condition that resolution is necessary in the public interest. In order to protect depositors, it is important that deposits below EUR 100,000 remain protected under the resolution framework under all circumstances, so that small depositors cannot be lost. I believe that the financial processes of the past period and the experience of the events at each financial institution point to the need to establish a single resolution system in Hungary, like the rest of the European Union. Please do not lose sight of the stated objectives, the objectives set out in the law, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr István Tukacs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to commend the speed of transposition of an EU regulation with the planned one, and I would like to praise it if it were always and always so. At the same time, I find that while we have a quick draft regulation on one side, in other cases the government or the governing coalition is not so fast and does not necessarily appreciate EU principles. Therefore, I would like to point out to you that in the future you will try to do this at another time, in any case. My second point is that, of course, the need to preserve the stability of the financial intermediary system is out of the question. At the same time, conservation is not only the task of the draft before us, but also of any government measures that have not served this in recent times. And right now, I would ask you very nicely not to have a representative here on the side of the "banks," "I'm not on the side of the banks" with a very bearded line, because if, in one case, the government believes that this stability is important, then don't put it at risk in any other case. The third item is: when banks come up, you talk about two things, say two things, do two things. At the time when the lead speaker of the LMP very accurately outlined the situation with the fear that banks were looking forward to their withdrawal, your otherwise legislative representative in the public eye communicates that this draft will be the one that will virtually punish these banks and prevent them from pulling out using public funds, leaving behind burdens. That is not true, however, and that is not what the draft itself is about, and that is not what the EU directive itself is about. I think that, although the Union has been significantly delayed since the crisis in this regard to propose regulation to its Member States - and this significant delay is not saved - I do, however, have to say that, regardless of the draft, the government seems to be going in different directions. And that means not only communication, but also the use of the general anti-bank mood, but also the real intention, let's say, of Matolcsy's bad banking concept, which I wouldn't mention. Finally, let me give you a brief comment on the matter of the Savings Bank and the savings cooperatives, we must talk about it. Not only because you are now saying that you are going to put down the draft before us and transforming banks into a quasi-risk community, in the case of savings cooperatives and the Savings Bank, you are going completely the other way. [[17.40]] It has not been taken into account that member cooperatives are already on the way to creating this risk community, not taking into account the fact that they intend to use their own instruments for this, and not the taxpayers'. Nothing was sacred, since this sector, which is not a significant part of the financial intermediary system, had to be stolen, nationalised and passed on in a privatisation process, to an otherwise controversial but undoubtedly organised company in the interests of the government. So I think we can also expect consistency. So when we say that the draft and adaptation to the EU guidelines are the right direction, we also say that the government must be consistent in all these types of measures, and we will never accept the kind of solution that will take, carry and pass on a significant part of a financial intermediary system. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2014-06-19-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Gábor Orbán's mark:]] He doesn't want me now. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Tuesday. 17 hours 41 minutes, followed by a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on financial matters until closure. Erik Bánki and Gábor Riz have a separate motion from our Fidesz fellow Members T/264. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame, who will give his speech at the place of his representatives. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-240	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Given that there is a significant delay in today's debate, I am therefore trying to make my introduction brief in the light of the occupation of my fellow Members. We are discussing a very important bill before this House today. I am very pleased that we were able to put it on the agenda so that the House could accept it in a normal way by 4 July. This is very important because it provides very serious assistance to many Hungarian families, families who have been able to benefit from the discount system so far, but there is a category of discounts, a circle that has not been available to them so far. Since 2010, the Government and the Fidesz-KDNP Group Association have presented and adopted a number of legislative proposals to this House, which have led to the adoption of various rescue packages and opened up to Hungarian families, saving them from the debt trap in which the irresponsible management and irresponsible management of the former Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments led. For innumerable Hungarian families were in the difficult situation that the exchange rate risk of foreign exchange loans that they had taken on by way of government has been met to the extent that none of them expected, nor did the banks at the time draw their attention to it, nor did they themselves, as citizens, think of the risks they were taking. One thing they had in mind was that a relatively inexpensive loan, much more favourable than the interest on the forint loan at the time, would be taken out. Unfortunately, this has had very serious consequences. To mention a few things from the family-saving packages of the past period, one is the home-security program, where more than 500 thousand families have had some form of help: 170 000 people have been able to make use of the possibility of end-up payments, which is a huge thing, more than 165 000 people have applied to the exchange rate barrier, nearly 7500 people have offered their property to the National Asset Manager, so that they can be rid of a pressure that could have actually caused the loss of their property, and let us not forget that 150,000 families still have substantial protection from the eviction moratorium, which we have accepted on a proposal from the government of national cooperation. In order to improve the situation of families affected by foreign exchange loans, the possibility of tax-free employer housing support has also been developed. According to this, companies can support their employees' loans and housing purchases up to HUF 5 million free of taxes and contributions. This is perhaps one of the most important points of the current bill before us, that this opportunity, which has so far only been available to families who have borrowed housing loans from financial institutions, is now being extended to families who have obtained housing loans through financial undertakings and have taken out loans through financial undertakings from which they have bought their apartments. The present proposal clarifies the conditions under which tax-free employer housing aid is provided, and I think that this will also contribute to the possibility for newer families over the 500 000 families mentioned earlier to obtain a grant that will alleviate the repayments of housing loans. Another amendment also offers a solution to a very important problem. In many cases, the apartment acquired using the housing loan is no longer owned by the employee, for example because it has been auctioned, but the repayment of the credit in connection with the acquisition is still borne by him, the individual who took the loan earlier. By supplementing the rules on the exemption from the tax on employer's allowance for housing purposes, the proposal also ensures that the employer's allowance for the repayment and repayment of such credit may be exempt. So it also offers these families a meaningful opportunity to get out of the trouble they have come into in some way. Ladies and gentlemen, Another very important thing, which relates to the package of proposals, is the retroactive effect, because we want to achieve it, and we also marked January 1, 2014 as the date of entry into force, so that they can make use of this extension, that extension of the whole year, and call this option off. The present proposal introduces reverse taxation on products most affected by fraud in order to reduce tax fraud in the steel sector. This is something that my fellow Member, Gábor Riz, will talk to you about in substance. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of certain laws on financial matters is aimed at interpreting the law, simplifying the application of the law and ensuring internal consistency between the legislation. We wanted to achieve with this proposal that the amendments that make life easier for Hungarian families and businesses should be extended even further, so I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill that we have tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak on behalf of the government. Yes, I'll give you the floor. Here, you have a 30-minute window. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-06-19-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank Mr Bánki Erik for the clarification, to which I would like to present the Government's position, with a little reference to the perhaps technical details that have not been mentioned. T/264 on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters. In addition to what the Member has already said, the aim of the legislative proposal is indeed to fulfil the obligations of harmonisation, to ensure internal consistency between the laws, which has been said, to strengthen the fight against tax fraud, and to clarify the application of the law. This proposal addresses a set of problems linked to each other, as we see it, through the amendment of seven laws. Honourable Members, The government supports proposals concerning personal income tax. We agree that by adopting them, the number of people using housing employer support should continue to expand. It is proposed that the repayment and repayment of the credit from financial undertakings will be exempt. [[17.50]] Furthermore, the aid may also be granted when the property purchased using the loan is no longer in the possession of the employee. It is also a positive change, I think, that the self-employed can also account for the cost of housing support to their employees. As far as the corporate tax law is concerned, this proposal mainly includes provisions for compliance with EU standards and provisions of a legal nature. For example, it ensures that if an asset is to be transferred free of charge to the State or the municipality under a legal requirement, that benefit should not constitute a corporate tax base. Another obligation to harmonise legislation is also being addressed, and I am referring to the EU directive on the place of supply of services. By transposing these rules, the nature of VAT consumption tax will be further enhanced and the possibility for providers of different services to take advantage of the lower rates granted by each Member State will be eliminated. The aim is, among other things, as I said, and, Mr President, the whitening of the economy, the more effective action against tax fraud. Action against VAT fraud will be effective if a number of measures are able to exert their reinforcing effects. One of the measures proposed concerns certain iron and steel products, and we also support the introduction of reverse VAT rules in this product scope. This bill will also tie up some loose ends in the gambling area. The new Ptk. specify the rules for the application for or receipt of prizes in order to ensure consistency with its rules. This solution is clear and easy to achieve for both players and organisers, which is why it can be supported. Similarly, the part of the proposal concerning gambling organised in international cooperation, which is Szerencségy Zrt., should be supported or supported. provide an opportunity to deviate from the domestic rules on the use of prizes for the benefit of international gambling rules. There is also an element of this package that amends the law on collective investment forms and their managers. It's not even one element, it's exactly two. On the one hand, it provides the venture capital fund management sector with a competitive legal environment and, on the other hand, facilitates the application of the Payment Service Act by simplifying the registration rules for declarations relating to free cash withdrawals that will enter into force on 1 October 2014. I would like to remind Members that in the last few years venture capital and private capital have become an accepted and effective financing solution for Hungarian companies, and it is therefore important that we have a competitive legal environment. We support these changes. The other amendment to the collective investment law, the inclusion of provisions on the central register of free cash withdrawals in the Payment Act with effect from 1 October 2014, proposes this fine-tuning of the current bill. We also support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches by the Members will be followed, and in the first round the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann, I give you the floor. A 15-15 minute time frame is available for each keynote speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-244	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, T/264 on the amendment of certain laws on financial matters. Proposal No.3 proposes changes to several laws, as we have just heard from the speakers before me, the nationalist and the representative of the government. I'm trying to shed some light on important moments that may not have been explained in so much detail. On the one hand, it intends to clarify the conditions under which tax-free employer housing aid is granted and to complement cases where interest income is not required for transactions involving collective investment securities. There are basically four important conditions for exemption of grants. One relates to the size of the apartment and the room number, according to which it should not exceed 12/2001 on State aid for housing. the government decree states that a reasonable housing requirement can be established. The aid granted under this item may not exceed 30 per cent of the purchase price or the total construction cost or, where appropriate, the cost of upgrading, but with the amounts paid as such in the four years preceding the year in which the payment was made, at most 5 million forints, as my fellow Member Bánki has already mentioned as rapporteur, even if several employers have subsequently granted aid to the employee for this purpose. Furthermore, it is a condition that the employer may grant or grant the aid through a credit institution or Treasury on the basis of evidence thereof. It must therefore be a clear certificate, a settlement. The aid must, of course, be granted in accordance with the conditions and procedure laid down in the relevant Ministerial Regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, Since credit for housing purposes is not only credit institutions, but we have just mentioned and heard that financial undertakings have paid or are still making payments to date, it is therefore appropriate, in order to ensure equal treatment for creditors in a position of equal standing, that the employer's allowance for repayment or repayment of loans not paid by a credit institution should also be included in a tax-free category. We have already heard the fact of the auction from the author, because unfortunately, in many cases, it still happens today that the apartment acquired using the housing loan is no longer owned by the employee, precisely because of the fact of the auction, but the repayment of the credit in connection with the acquisition is still borne by the private person. This proposal aims precisely to ensure that the employer's allowance for such repayments and repayments is also exempt from tax by supplementing the rules on the exemption of employer's allowance for housing purposes. The proposed proposal amends the legislation currently in force so that the self-employed can, like any company operating in a social enterprise, account as a cost if the employee has been granted non-refundable housing aid. And there is one more important thing, which is also a huge help to households, families: according to the proposal, favourable rules can be applied retroactively from 1 January 2014 if they are more favourable to the individual. Furthermore, as it contains several amendments, the bill also proposes to amend the law. This amendment could extend the scope of cases where interest income does not need to be established for matters involving collective investment securities. It also makes or intends to make changes to the VAT Act, as the VAT Act would change the date on which the tax liability for periodic clearing transactions would be incurred as of 1 July 2014. The proposed amendment would require a substantial restructuring of invoicing systems in companies and businesses, as well as liquidity problems, and therefore the amendment proposes that this provision, the extension of the entry into force of the provision, be made by the law in order to ensure adequate preparation time. In addition, as has already been said, it intends to comply with legal harmonisation obligations, since 2008/8/EC. It is attempting to transpose the provisions of the Council Directive which will enter into force as a final step. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] It may therefore be possible to tax broadcasting, electronic and telecommunications services provided to a non-taxable person in the State of consumption. In parallel, in order to ease the administrative burden, an innovation, a so-called one-stop shop, can be launched, with the creation of which it will also be possible for a taxable person to pay his tax in the Member State in which he is established for the cross-border provision of such services. [[18.00]] My fellow Member Gábor Riz wishes to address the changes he intends to make in the steel sector. In practice, we can talk about the introduction of reverse VAT, especially for products most affected by fraud. This proposal is also in the form of a list, but I do not wish to take the floor from my fellow Member, and he will obviously list these criteria in detail. As regards gambling, the amendment of the law is also mentioned, since the amendments concerning gambling are also intended to ensure consistency with the Act. The proposal makes it clear that the deadline for applying for and receiving prizes is a limitation. In particular, the player's claim for a prize must be announced within a 90-day limitation period and the prize must be issued to the player within a 30-day limitation period. I think that, finally, there are two more important things worth drawing attention to with this mixed package, which, overall, proposes amendments to several laws. It also includes changes to the Tao Law and changes to the FTT. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. The amendment to the Act ensures that, in the case of a beneficiary swap, the deferred benefit of the unrealised exchange rate gains is recognised only when the holding acquired in the context of the beneficiary's share exchange is recognised. The amendment of the Tao Law, as proposed, also ensures that the provisions on prices between related undertakings are not applied, however, where a taxpayer transfers assets free of charge to a State or municipality in a related business relationship, in accordance with legal requirements. Furthermore, in the context of the introduction of additional aid for the tax relief of support for performing arts organisations from 2014 onwards, the authorising provision for the development of rules at regulation level also provides for clarification of a legal nature. With regard to the FTT, the proposal clarifies that money exchangers have to pay transaction fees even if the client changes forints against currency. Thus, it becomes clear that such a transaction is a sale for the purposes of Act Pti and not a purchase of currency. About these were the summary circumstances or cases that were included in this legislative amendment proposal. I think that what I have outlined - and I have briefly tried to sum up these amendments - is not only a simplification of the application of the law, they are not just a simplification of the interpretation of the law, but I think they also follow the principles of rationality and expediency, and they also pursue internal harmonisation objectives, but above all, another serious support and assistance not only for families, households, but also for businesses. I therefore respectfully ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal and to engage constructively in the general debate on the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-245	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Burány, on behalf of the MSZP. [[Dr. István Józsa: The name is not right! For signal:]] Alexander. Excuse me, excuse me.
u2014-06-19-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice to meet you. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, One of the questions that I have raised after reading the bill and following the circumstances of the submission is how many avatars the government has. Maybe it's because I just watched this great movie again. It may be known that the word " avatar " comes from Hindu mythology, for example, originally meant the incarnation of God Vishnu, and it has been used by the slang ever since when something descends from the sky and appears in a specific body. I could say, if I was talking about the government's avatars, that when the government descends about to the Parliament - if I want to use exalted words - it uses different avatars to do so and presents its intention through representatives, as if through avatars. I do not underestimate my fellow Members at all, because I know that we are dealing with people with excellent abilities, but the phenomenon still stings. Of course, the term " avatar " is also used for less exalted things. For example, in the online slang, it is called an avatar when a person speaks to him either with his own photo or with a photo found in various forums or on social portals. The phenomenon is known when a single user has several of these avatars, and then it is possible to troll around a post on the Internet. If I wanted to use a less exalted term for this phenomenon, which we are witnessing now, I would say that the government is trying to disrupt the Parliament's meeting in the form of different avatars, while it would be much clearer if it did not present its own intentions to the House on its own behalf through embodiments. There is every possibility, since not only well-prepared representatives sit among the benches; obviously well-prepared ministers and ministers of state, although I am not always convinced of this, but let us be lenient, well-prepared ministers and ministers of state are working in the government, even if they can formally submit the bill. But that's not what happens in a case. We see in a series that the government is reluctant to make proposals in its own name, and is submitting complex packages amending a number of laws, salad laws in parliamentary slang, to Parliament on behalf of others. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a worrying phenomenon even if one can agree with the content of the bill in several respects. That's what we're talking about here. Many points of the bill address real problems, try to solve real problems in a good way, and these efforts can be partly agreed with - I note, not always. There is even a point of concern in the bill. The amendment to the Company Tax Act has already been mentioned. I'd like to deal with that a little bit. The current text of the Corporate Tax Act requires that, if an undertaking has affiliated undertakings, say, has a subsidiary, the accounting between them must be recorded at market prices, the various accounting tricks to be eliminated, whether profit or not, can be removed, losses transferred to a company to be wound up later, or, in the case of international companies, these tricks can be used to transfer money from one country to another, even tricking around where the different results or losses within a group of companies are to appear, optimizing the best case for tax purposes. In order to eliminate this, the current law states that, in all such cases, market value must be indicated in order to avoid abuse, and a number of laws are also used to ensure that this can be strictly observed. In not one case, tax authorities' investigations are trying to ascertain precisely whether these accounts are accurate, or whether there are falsified data in the form of tax evasion, other than the actual market value in the accounts. This is the strict regulation that this bill now seeks to bring to an end in certain cases. The bill states that this strict provision, namely that market value should be applied in the accounts, should not be mandatory in the future in cases where an undertaking, a subsidiary, or an element of the group of undertakings provides a service, investment or property to the State. This point in the bill is, in my view, of concern. It creates a loophole, which in bad times could mean corruption. In the future, if this law is adopted in this form by the Parliament, an undertaking, if it so called a favour to a municipality, does not have to indicate its actual market value in the accounts. [[18.10]] Obviously, the widely used practice of my fellow Members is that various companies wishing to set up a business in the administrative territory of a local government would like to make some kind of investment, not in one case in order for the local body of representatives to support this investment by amending some local government legislation, making public offerings. In this way, there is nothing wrong, as a public offering, let us say, a company, as an additional element of the investment, is renovating a park, renovating a public square, mister's forgiveness, building a gym, and doing the municipality a similar favor, and the municipality doesn't have any money to pay for it. So far, in these cases, we have seen clearly, no matter how much this public offering cost, its exact market value was traceable in the books. This will become uncertain in the future. This becomes uncertain, and whether an investment in the administrative territory of a given municipality has applied for local government aid which may, where appropriate, be exhausted from the charge of fraudulent treatment, will be much more difficult to catch or show. This loophole, my fellow Members, is not worth opening. It would lead us far away, I'm afraid, to an impenetrable consequence. That's why I actually have two requests for the government. One is that, while we agree on a number of points in the proposal, in the future, you should be kind enough to announce and submit your own proposals to Parliament under your own name. Secondly, on this particular issue, I ask that the authors, pardon the expression, the avatars withdraw this point of the bill, do not open this loophole, because it would have incomprehensible consequences. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-247	Thank you. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group.
u2014-06-19-248	Mr President, Dear House, There's a quote in front of me, which means everyone's Arabic to me, even those blues in Avatar, they're Arabs. About the same was the previous manifestation that what we see before us is all wrong, simply because it is part of a salad. I don't like salads of this type, but not everyone is Arab to me, so I can distinguish among the excellent parts of salad that are acceptable to the Hungarian citizen and which can even favour Hungarian businesses, and among those that are indeed of great concern. But perhaps the most disturbing thing was the introduction of the so-called debt relief, so-called home rescue, and in the subject of which it was said that a lot of people here viewed so-called foreign exchange-based loans as simply a cheap way of credit, and the family-saving, home-saving package that listed here how many tens of thousands of families were thought to help. On the other hand, unfortunately, we are still aware of more than 350 thousand contracts, families and family members behind them, who could not use any rescue package or any form of assistance. After the Curia's decision, we would have been very happy to discuss, in these last two weeks, either a salad or a legislative package to help them. Unfortunately, we have to settle for what's ahead, but let's not underestimate certain points. So if we are talking here about clarifying the conditions under which tax-free employer housing aid can be provided, then I say that this can be discussed, it is worth arguing about, it is only worth clarifying the circumstances of this, and, yes, it is necessary to ensure that these preferential forms, if the government does not act on its own, if the previous four years and these additional few months have been short for a full solution, allow at least others to help in the same area. At the same time, I consider what is being formulated in this proposal in the steel sector to be a much more valuable proposal, not because the volume of the steel industry would be so huge in Hungary. It is not because it will raise and highlight Hungarian GDP or the Hungarian economy, but because of its symbolic strength, that not only in the first area, and finally recognizing not only the word of Jobbik, but also the word of the times, they consider that the introduction of reverse taxation can not only have beneficial effects, but, given the relations of the surrounding countries, it is a mandatory task in some areas. I mean, what's that gonna do for us? If we can make it possible to eliminate net purchases only from abroad, together with the fact that the country will suffer serious losses through its non-religious VAT, then we will protect the domestic market and protect Hungarian jobs. But in the simple way, if we introduced the same in many other sectors, so let's say, every sector where a truckload of goods is in place, where a truck can already be filled with domestic-produced goods, then we could realize that instead of NAV having to follow the whole chain and find out where the VAT is lost or where its payment is left, it would be much easier to negotiate with the last member of the chain in this respect. And yes, it is true that in certain market segments this can cause price increases, some price increases, this should be treated as a consequence of market cleaning, and the long-term benefit is much greater than the temporary, if any, a few percent increase that unfortunately has to be suffered by market players. But what we need to see is that when the amount of certain goods produced at home is worth moving around on a truck, for certain segments of goods, road traffic, truck transport, can amount to up to 40 percent, but in extreme cases, only 50 percent of the amount of goods that is fraudulently moved, after which various tax-type machinations arise and, indeed, they need to be handled. I would therefore suggest that the government should not intervene in this area, and not only in this narrow area, but also with an expiry date. I understand that the situation in Ukraine and other specific crisis points or the elimination of customs duties there, or perhaps a change in them, may now create a need for action, especially in the sense that in two of the neighbouring countries there is already a full possibility of reverse VAT and even an obligation, but we must see that Hungary would have very, very, very large benefits in terms of the entire agricultural segment if it were to be the last member of the chain to be sought, driven up, and, yes, there is added value and there is a spare. Once again, our experts are familiar with a commodity segment and market segment where the volume of such fraudulently transported goods can be increased to 40 per cent or more within the overall transport framework. So if we are talking about disadvantages, we can mention the increase in prices, but we also have to say that the long-term benefit of market protection is much greater, much more predictable than what we are seeing now, that it is indeed a hundred billion-dollar amount of fraud, whistling VAT payments in Hungary. The Hungarian national economy suffers irreplaceable damage. If there was something to be said about this salad, then, let's say, the amendment of the actual description of the transaction fee could be a point where we could argue that it is an extension of the load, an unjustified extension that is not certain that it should be moved in this direction. In terms of transaction fees, moving in a different direction in line with its original purpose, the retail client, the small client, the simple person, could be exempted from this form, and the actual speculative or premium customers, possibly the large business multinational sphere, could move this in another direction with a further load on the whole... - Well, let's not call it a levy, because it's actually a tax, it's called a levy so that you don't have to box with Brussels on the other side of a tax that has to come up, not necessarily in the case of a levy. We could also support the proposal to ensure that a certain part of the money from remote gambling is earmarked for sport or that health-saving investments are made from it. I don't think there's a man who can argue with that purpose. However, I believe that the real value of this uneven package of proposals before us is that, in terms of reverse taxation, it at least raises the possibility of launching a series of market clean-ups that has so far not been at all government-specific. So it took Fidesz-KDNP a lot of years to admit that it is really worth changing the system in certain areas and bringing in these formulas. I very much hope that it is not just the situation in Ukraine and not just an external pressure that drives them to think about importing this in an otherwise narrow market sector, and I very much hope that they will understand Jobbik's warning that in many other market segments, the introduction of a similar system of protection could be a serious factor, even while taking on temporary damage, in order to maintain long-term positions. I very much hope that this will not be taken away from the rapporteur, and if they have no longer been able to put a package that can fully help foreign exchange lenders on the table, and, according to their latest plans, they will push it again until autumn in favour of the pointless negotiation with the Banking Association and as a consequence, I hope that they can move in a positive direction at least in this small and sub-area. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Erik Bánki applauds.]] [[18.20]]
u2014-06-19-249	Thank you. I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-06-19-250	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, the bill before us is a draft tax salad law which now regularly comes before this House as a motion for individual representatives. There are two possible cases. One is that the Minister and his ministry responsible for tax policy have no impact on where the country is going in the field of taxation. I don't think so. I do not think that this option can be undertaken for Minister Mihály Varga, but neither for the Ministry's leadership, as this would prove their incompetence. The second option is that the Ministry is aware of these legislative amendments and is even made up of the Ministry. But she's pregnant with the impact assessments, the mandatory administrative consultation, the consultation with the stakeholders, any kind of consultation at all. This is a problem because it empties the legislative process, which does not simply define these mandatory circles. This is how poor laws are born, which must then be brought back a few months later to be corrected, while making the lives of thousands of people and entrepreneurs miserable and ruined. The LMP cannot support any proposal or other substantial changes to tax policy submitted by individual government representatives in order to circumvent existing legislation. In addition, I would like to say a few words about the content of the draft, and I would like to ask a few questions to Mr Bánki, the rapporteur of the bill. I'd like to introduce the reverse-VAT payment for steel products. This seems to be a useful measure, and LMP has proposed more than six months ago to investigate VAT frauds of a thousand billion and to learn the right lessons. Then the government denied, András Horváth, who blew up the case, he was constantly disproved, and now it is proven that he was right about almost everything. Indeed, steel products were one of the main product groups found during the scandal to be a frequent player in carousel fraud. The question now is why this was not taken three years ago when András Horváth wrote to János Lázár and Mihály Varga, and the Fidesz faction dealt with the matter as a result. Why did they let the VAT fraud go on for three years? I would also like to ask whether the EU has approved this step, because this is not in the draft. Don't let it be again that they start pointing out to the EU as evil by hiding the government's omissions. The second is the amendment of the corporate tax law. The draft would amend the corporate tax and dividend tax law. This would mean that strict accounting rules between related companies would be roughly relaxed, which we have already heard about. This could have two consequences. One is that the small and medium-sized enterprises concerned can legally eliminate their revenues and profits, i.e. the government allows them to do the same thing that many countries, the whole European Union, have been fighting for a long time. This will give many invisible perspectives of trickery and tax avoidance, so the market will still not be dominated by honest innovative businesses who work well and decently, but are once again put in a position by the law to do tricks and tricks. The second problem is that it is not real for the municipality or the State to transfer assets and investments at much smaller or much higher prices. I ask Mr Erik Bánki whether he is not afraid of institutionalising corruption, the opaque merger of economic and political spheres. In addition, they do so by applying retroactively to the 2013 tax year. This is simply unacceptable. They facilitate the operation of venture capital fund managers and private equity fund managers. The justification is that the initial capital requirement is too high, EUR 125 thousand, i.e. some HUF 38 million. It also relaxes persons involved in the management and supervisory board and professional requirements. The only problem with this is that while removing the high level of capital requirements, it does not establish a new one. So zero forint would be the ideal level of start-up capital. It's typical of what hurts the government. What are some of the problems that bring the bill in? Venture capital managers, who do not usually lack resources, complain that there is a high capital requirement - and the solution is coming. Meanwhile, a half year ago, the government put 200,000 entrepreneurs in a difficult situation and decided to bring many people up to HUF 3 million in the mandatory share capital of KFTs. In this case, it seems that the complaint did not matter that in many areas, in many businesses, this could be pointless, unnecessary, too high, at the expense of activity and employment. That is to say, once again, it becomes apparent that the government does not represent small entrepreneurs, but the elite, the money people. Their problems are soon brought about by the law, the small businessmen are insensitive, wiped out. The easing of the supervisory board membership, and the deletion of the clause setting out the professional background, is part of the sad process where companies use the supervisory board not for purpose, i.e. to ensure legal and good operation, but mostly as a political paying place, where the fb member has no idea of anything but takes up the money, but does not fulfil its function. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-251	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a 15-15-minute time frame for these. I give the floor to the Member in writing, Mr Gábor Riz.
u2014-06-19-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr President, As two fellow Members have said, I would really like to talk more about the amendment of the law relating to the steel industry, but since there has been a question, I would like to start with it to the Member. He missed the preparation and how the reverse VAT on steel products was included in this salad law. Then let me tell you that the government, as well as the Ministry, has conducted the negotiations with the dedicated professional organization, the Hungarian Iron and Steel Industry Association, in which they decided to enter into the law, taking into account market and other aspects. I would like to say to Mr Burány that I am proud to play the role of the Avatar in the case of the Ózdians. After all, if Ozd tells you anything else, it was once the citadel of heavy industry, it still operates on its ruins, which produces such a product, concrete steel, alone in the country, I am proud to say, resting on ever more secure feet. And an important condition of this will be that if we pass this law, we will in fact avoid the previous syndrome that you may be able to give examples of when bulk goods left the country moving on paper and claimed the VAT they had calculated on this family of products. The Act explicitly identifies the product group, also by article number, by type of product, as to what the introduction of reverse VAT in the field of the metal industry applies. Let me give you a few briefings to defend the law. One of the most recent is World Steel News, which brings the latest results, the Polish example, where 2013. X. The reverse VAT was introduced on the 1st day, and the period has already proved that with VAT equivalent to HUF 51 billion, more went into Polish public finances, the Polish register than in the same period of the previous year. Since I mentioned that I was an Oldman, I would like to take the following example from here. The steelworks there, which produce concrete steel, can be shown to know about 28 thousand tonnes of concrete steel that virtually moved only in real space. [[18.30]] This was HUF 1.2 billion of unpaid VAT, which applies to this product weight. So I would like to put it to your attention, because this amendment proposal is further strengthened by the favourable financial feedback on cereals and oil seeds in the agricultural sector, as well as by the fact that the introduction of reverse VAT is being repaid, and one of the next important areas is heavy industry and related steel products. I need your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-253	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] If not, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Bánki Erik if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor.
u2014-06-19-254	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for everyone's contribution to this legislative package, which I have tabled with my fellow Member Gábor Riz. On the basis of what has been said, I would also like to respond to some opinions. First of all, I thank you very much for the government's support, because I think that we can really change the regulation of important areas that offer better opportunities for both Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, not to mention the fact that they continue to limit the loopholes in tax avoidance. So I can't even interpret the comments that make the legislation before us as a set of legislation opening new tax avoidance gates. I think that my fellow Members are deliberately misinterpreting the intention of this bill, deliberately trying to make it look as if we intended to favour any social group or group of businesses with this proposal. The basic aim of the proposal, as has been said in the contributions of my fellow members in favour of the Government, is to help Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. I am pleased that Dániel Z. Kárpát, the lead speaker of Jobbik, has given us a positive opinion, because it is clear from this that if one not only examines a bill from opposition position, but actually looks at it in terms of its impact on Hungarian citizens and Hungarian businesses, it can indeed find a positive point in this proposal. The fact that experts help prepare a bill, and they are, let us say, government civil servants, I think there is no obstacle to that at all, because it is our job as Members, we swore that we would do as well as we could, and we will try to look at every proposal on the basis that it is best for Hungarian society. I think that in this case - perhaps on behalf of my fellow Member Gábor Riz, because we are joint petitioners - we have tried to do everything we can to make the best possible legislative package possible. Obviously, we are not flawless and we are not infallible, and that is why it is possible for my fellow Members in places where they think there are substantial problems or not to "give us God's intention to make proposals that strengthen this package of laws, to have more positive effects on the actors of Hungarian society, to say to you that, as rapporteur, Gábor Riz and I are open to all such proposals, we will support all such proposals, and at committee meetings, we will support ourselves with the support with which we encourage our fellow members of the Government to have the support behind this. So we are open to any positive changes that will help us to adopt the bill, the intention that led us to draw up the bill. Listening to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Burány, I felt that he was obviously looking for a point where the preparation of the bill could be linked. In part, he chose a humorous, partly very serious way. What I can tell you, Congressman, is that a critic is like a gynecologist: he's looking for trouble where there's a difference in pleasure. So that's probably what led you when the Avatar tried to come up with an example. Like my fellow Member, Gábor Riz, I say that if the price of this is that we can accept positive proposals in Parliament, then I am happy to take this role. But I would draw your attention to a quote from Coelho: nothing in the world is wrong, even the clock is accurate, at least twice a day. So believe me, the intention is positive on our part, if there are any mistakes, we will be willing to correct them. My colleague Erzsébet Schmuck raised several questions for us. The first and perhaps most important question is why we are only coming up with this bill now. There have been discussions with the European Commission so far. We have just come to the point where the European Commission also supports the use of reverse VAT in this product range. I tell you frankly, I have been a Member of the European Parliament for two years, and I do not understand the Commission's attitude, because, as Mr Dániel Z. Karpát said in his speech, and as my fellow Member Gábor Riz referred to it, the simplest way to eliminate tax evasion is to stop the reverse VAT solution, since they are completing the travel of products, there is no VAT refund, there is no payment, we are not enriching the banks completely unnecessarily, and we are not opening gates that raise the possibility of tax avoidance. If it were up to me - but I think the government would support us in this too - we would introduce this opportunity in a lot more areas, because the previous examples show that where this was introduced, for example in Poland, it represents huge savings for the budget. We know that on an annual basis many tens or even hundreds of billions of forints can disappear in this way. The reason why we didn't start on this road in connection with the suggestions made by András Horváth: well, I am very pleased that, based on the suggestions made by András Horváth, we didn't start on any road, since András Horváth has not been able to prove any of his points to this day. From that particular dossier you kept showing me, and what you threatened the government and the pro-government representatives with, to this day, no document has been produced that would prove anything that he raised. It is no coincidence that he did not have any specific points, since they could be called to account in court. Each time he was careful about this, he always had vague suggestions. I think that such a person and these claims need not be dealt with in any way in the Hungarian Parliament. In the case of related businesses, we are seeking to put corruption options into law, too, Mr Sándor Burány referred to it, and this story came on the front page of the Népszabadság last week, and we also asked for correction there, because the bill is precisely for the opposite purpose. So not only do we want to open a corruption gap, but we want to solve it, we want to make it easier for the municipalities to pay taxes if they receive a free allowance. After all, we have charged them with the fact that, in this case, they even had a tax liability on their part. So, not only would we be opening a gap, but we are trying to make it easier for the municipalities. In the case of any other type of asset allocation, this is not the case except in cases granted to the State or to the municipality. I think they're deliberately trying to get involved in this bill again, and I think it's completely unfounded. Finally, once again, I cannot respond to the fact that the government represents the elite against the little people. If you look at this bill, which we have all talked about in our first speech, it is basically about the small people, the Hungarian families, the relief of burdens for Hungarian families who have not yet had access to tax incentives, it is about businesses for which we want to create clear competitive conditions by closing tax avoidance opportunities, and we want to help the state and municipalities by not requiring them to pay taxes in terms of income benefits. Again, in contrast, the aim is to help a wider spectrum of society and to facilitate their lives, farming and functioning. Once again, I would ask my fellow Members to consider these in the future, and if they have a positive proposal to assist the bill, they should do so as an amendment; and my fellow Member Gábor Riz and I will endeavour to give a substantive consideration to all the amendments tabled, and we will also support the one that brings the matter forward. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-255	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Tuesday. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws in relation to sports betting until closure. Independent motion by MEPs Erik Bánki and Péter Cseresnyés T/265. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[18.40]] I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Economic Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I will also give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, the rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-06-19-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! Like the previous agenda, I am also trying to make sure that this bill does not take up the 30-minute time frame and that I do not unnecessarily delay my fellow Members. Basically, we are talking today about a bill that has had a history here before this House, because last year it was adopted the amendment of the law, the bill on online betting, which regulated this market. There have been many questions about which parts of the online gambling area we want to regulate since the submission. We want to regulate the area of sports betting in the context of distance gambling with this bill. We have brought this bill before this House because we believe that we need to amend and refine the law that is currently in force, because the last year proves that it has not fully fulfilled its expectations, that there have been no players in the Hungarian market that have supported the Hungarian budget by paying taxes in Hungary and that through it Hungarian sport. We have looked at European examples, we have looked at how this regulation works in Europe. We have seen that a lot of countries have dealt with this issue over the last ten years, but in particular in recent years legislation has accelerated in this area. Perhaps the most successful introduction of this regulation was in Denmark, where in the first half of the introduction the Danish government and the Danish public finances were able to collect tax equivalent to more than HUF 20 billion from this tax category. I think that, obviously, there are other options, with other solvent demand, but also in Hungary, it is possible to achieve 2-3 billion HUF extra revenue for the budget. And here we were not primarily driven by the intention of submitting the bill to improve the balance of public finances, but primarily by creating a well-managed, yet open market that further whitens the area of online betting and tries to narrow down the circle that does not legally make this type of toy available. It is a very difficult thing, because in the world of the Internet today they can virtually reach and place bets on a server from Hungary in any country in the world. We were basically driven by the goal of narrowing the circle and making them accessible to Hungarian citizens. But this is a completely different situation, because in the case of terrestrial casinos or arcades, the restriction of access is relatively simple, since it is only from the territory of Hungary. In the case of online gambling, because of the Internet, we are talking about global gaming opportunities, so there is no or very difficult way to narrow down the market in this sense. There is a way and opportunity to disable those servers, centrally disable them by the state, which do not move within legal limits, but they can virtually start a new server on the same day or the next day at the site of a disabled server, so they can operate a new game interface. So it is very difficult to find and prohibit this type of fraud. We are therefore trying to create a transparent, well-organised and yet open market in order to ensure that the betting offices that organise online betting throughout Europe become players in the market in Hungary as well. According to the current rules, they can only become a game organizer in Hungary if they have created their own company in Hungary. The last year has shown that this has not been attractive for these companies, as it would have resulted in additional costs and additional administration, and unfortunately Hungary is not the market that would have made it worthwhile for them to undertake such costs and such additional work. Therefore, we believe that this is why they did not participate in the market. In addition to Hungary, Portugal, the Netherlands, Ireland, Switzerland, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Romania, Lithuania, Sweden and Norway are currently planning or implementing significant changes to the existing online gambling law this year. Thus, it is not a unique phenomenon in Hungary that an amendment to an otherwise recently introduced legislation can take place in Parliament. Five years ago, only Italy, Malta, the Czech Republic, Estonia and Lithuania were those EU Member States that had an open market, and the others had only a closed or partially open market. If we look at the examples of the operation of the last five years, it is clear that in countries where their market has been opened for operators, they have been able to generate higher revenues in transparent, well-regulated conditions. In the case of Spain, we can speak of a very high level of tax revenue, as in Britain, but I think that these countries are not only more powerful countries in Hungary than in the population, but also in GDP, so it is not worth comparing Hungary with them. What can be seen is the example of Bulgaria, which is slightly smaller than Hungary, but has 7 million inhabitants, where the Gambling Law came into force in 2012, and the law was amended there in 2014, because the initial introduction did not bring the market opening that was expected from this bill. I therefore believe that the amendments contained in this bill may be sufficient to allow more players to enter the market, sufficient to achieve the objective of this bill, which, with additional tax revenues, aims to support sport, sport and leisure sport in Hungary. I think that 2-3 billion forints of tax revenue would be a very significant extra sport support, and I think, in particular, that such an additional subsidy could be a breakthrough in recreational port, because if I look at this year's data, there is little more than 300 million forints in recreational port in 2014. Thus, with the adoption of this bill, roughly twice the annual amount could be used to support recreational dust, which is not an incidental or negligible circumstance. Overall, I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this bill, and I trust that by adopting this bill and its entry into force in July we will achieve that the market can grow substantially, we will achieve that the full ban on workers in the grey and black sectors of the market can happen, and only fair market players in the field of online sports betting, which are subject to Hungarian tax legislation and Hungarian legislation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-19-257	Thank you. I'll ask if the Secretary of State would like to comment in 30 minutes on behalf of the government. It's signaling, yeah. Gábor Orbán, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2014-06-19-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Unfortunately, I am not in a position to share the government's position with you, because it has not been on the government's agenda, nor has this proposal come up. At the same time, I would like to express briefly the opinion of this area. We basically support the principle of promoting by means of a motion to change the actual and rapid opening of the remote gambling market. Compared to the current illegal market, the legalisation of online gambling is in line with government goals. The adoption of the proposal would provide players, both domestic and foreign non-state organisers, with a well-regulated market with strong consumer protection guarantees, after appropriate refining. At the same time, the proposal envisages a lower burden on the organisers in terms of toy taxation and concession fees compared to the current legislation. This does not necessarily mean that we do not support the proposal, because in order to open up the actual market - this must be recognised - it is necessary to ensure entry into a market that requires large investment and the continuous provision of budgetary revenues, it is necessary to provide organisers with a realistic level of burden-sharing that can be achieved in the long term. [[18.50]] However, on the scale of this, I think there is still room for discussion. The advantage of opening up the legal gaming market would also be that organisers have to comply with domestic anti-money laundering provisions, so instead of online gambling sites currently operated illegally or at a low level of security, players would also have safer, more traceable surfaces. In order for this to be the case, we are also taking decisive steps to block the online gambling sites that are not licensed by Hungary. This can make a major contribution to bringing back those in the black economy. I do not think that there is a need for explanation, nor is it particularly controversial, that the tax revenue generated by the opening up of the remote gambling market, as set out in the bill, can be used to support football, we are not against this at all. If I were to sum up the position of the area of expertise, then the point is that the elements of the proposal which aim at opening up the remote gambling market are supported, and here and there we believe that major changes are necessary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-19-259	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-06-19-260	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, I assume that most of the people in this room are monitoring the current World Football Championship and monitoring it, as there is a match going on right now. [[Defiance.]] I also assume that whoever is rooting for it has a certain number of tips on the results at night, and the brave ones, who are so sure of the outcome, would be willing to bet on this result, and there are also a number of legal and typically illegal options. I mention illegal opportunities for a reason, because unfortunately, sports betting on the Internet in Hungary today is largely like this. Today, online sports betting has become part of our daily lives and has done so by remaining completely opaque in our country. That's why the government has decided to regulate this area. Allow me first to talk about the international context of online gambling regulation, and then to move on to domestic regulation. CXXVI 2013 adopted one year ago on 5 July 2013 and effective from 19 July 2013. The provisions of the Act, which I would like to mention later, have been modelled primarily on German and Danish legislation. The new law amended the Act XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. law, introducing detailed rules for remote gambling. From then on, anyone can freely and legally receive online, and without having to pay taxes on their profits. According to a statement, the world's gambling market is about $400 billion a year. Of this, the size of the Hungarian market is estimated to be around HUF 100 billion, of which more than half is exclusively made up of the bookmaker's sports betting system. Bleaching the market, or at least turning it gray, would result in an additional revenue of HUF 10-12 billion per year to the Hungarian budget, according to the most pessimist calculations. As of 1 May 2004, Hungary is also a member of the European Union, thus adopting the principle of the free movement of goods and services, and the Court of Justice of the European Union considers it a restriction on the freedom to provide services by providers established in another Member State to prohibit it from operating on the Internet without a licence issued by that Member State's authority. Article 52 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union only accepts restrictions justified by reasons of public policy, public security or public health, but the application of the restriction must also meet the requirements that it must be able to achieve the explicit objective pursued by the Member State concerned and that it cannot go beyond what is necessary for it to be achieved, and that the restriction must in any event be free of discrimination. Thus, to sum up, it was up until last year that companies providing online services were operating in Hungary legally, but without specific Hungarian regulations, under EU law. The European Court of Justice has stated on several occasions that Member States are free to set the objectives of their policy on gambling and, where appropriate, to determine the exact level of protection required. The regulation of gambling is one of the areas for which there are significant moral, religious and cultural differences between Member States. In the absence of Community harmonisation of the area, it is for each Member State to assess the requirements arising from the protection of the interests concerned in these areas according to their own values. In the case of restrictions on the freedom to provide services in relation to the organisation of gambling, it should be examined whether the restriction by national legislation is capable of achieving the objective pursued by the Member State concerned, does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve it and whether the restrictions are applied without discrimination. I'd like to mention two countries. One that passed these conditions, the so-called Gebhardt test, and one that didn't. It is Portugal and Germany. In Portugal, gambling revenues are used for educational purposes, social projects, and there is little advertising, and the state is not helping to develop addiction to games. In Germany, a regulatory model similar to that in Portugal has been developed, but the European Union has been critical of the fact that, in addition to strong marketing, revenue from the sector is used as a tax in the state register, which does not justify maintaining a national monopoly. The argument is justified, and precisely because of this method, Member States cannot rely on the need to limit the use of gambling by the general public, if they encourage and encourage their citizens to buy lottery tickets, participate in gambling and conclude sports betting, the revenues of which are entered directly into the public budget. In general, in the case-law of the European Court of Justice, it considers consumer protection objectives, prevention of fraud and the prevention of excessive spending on gambling to be a strong reason for public interest, in general, to prevent the risk of endangering social balance. Given the justification of the licensing system, gambling involves the risk of crime and fraudulent events, so the specific features of online gambling can be justified in itself by the operation and operation of a licensing system, which is limited to the purpose of combating fraud and crime. I thought it was important to say all of this in order to illustrate the complexity of the system, the need and the need to act now in the regulation of online gambling. Now, as a reminder, let me recall the history of the proposal that has just been put on the agenda. On 5 July 2013, the Parliament amended the XXXIV of '91 on the organisation of gambling. Law. In this context, it has linked sports betting to a public concession organised by means of communication systems. The organizers of the remote gambling scheme are subject to the rules on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, so the amended Gambling Act stated that only natural persons can be registered as players, and a player can only have one player's license in an organizer, and the organizer is obliged to register the player's data. Based on the last year's amendment to the law, the distance gambling game can therefore be carried out by way of a concession agreement concluded by the public organizers, with the permission of the National Tax and Customs Office, and other organisers on the basis of participation in a concession tender, and also with the permission issued by the NAV. [[19.00]] According to the amendment of one year ago, companies participating in the concession may be authorised to organise online sports betting for a maximum of 5 years. However, the number of organisers was not limited, but the subscribed capital was defined by law at least HUF 200 million. Players should have paid a concession fee of HUF 100 million per year per type of game, such as casino, card game or sports betting, as well as a toy tax every two weeks and a supervisory fee every quarter. The toy tax is 20% of pure game revenue. The gambling supervision fee would have been 2.5 percent of the total revenue, but it would have been at least 100 thousand forints and 50 million forints. Of the latter, the organizer would have received a 25% discount if he had placed a secondary data storage server in Hungary to facilitate supervisory activities. As can be seen from the above, it was the legislator's intention to regulate, on the basis of international examples, an area that had previously been opaque, unregulated and chaotic. As you know, there are huge amounts of money now on online platforms, but the state does not benefit from this money movement. This also means that gambling revenues cannot be used for socially useful purposes, such as promoting sport and sport. The goal was therefore noble, but the means, the solution, proved to be too strict. Because of the conditions considered too strict, no company has issued a licence. It should be noted that there is strong international competition in the online gambling market, so we would like to impose conditions for gaming operators that they accept and which prove to be operational. In return, the state can expect that about HUF 10 billion of revenue from regulation could be added to the budget. The proposal before this House is therefore essentially doing three things. First of all, it reduces the monthly gaming tax for remote gambling, which is therefore proposed to be 10 per cent of the defined clean game revenue instead of the 20 per cent mentioned above. The current 20 percent rate is otherwise average in Europe. In several countries, including Denmark and Bulgaria, this is the amount to be paid for clean game revenues. In many places the rate of tax is even higher, for example in France. Secondly, it reduces the supervisory fee, so they would pay HUF 10 million instead of the current HUF 50 million maximum payable. However, the 2.5 percent and the 100 thousand HUF lower limit would remain unchanged. Thirdly, the proposal would reduce the concession fee from 100 million to 30 million forints in the case of a remote gambling management licence valid for a type of toy and from 15 million forints per type in the case of a multi-toy binary gaming licence for 2014. Last but not least, let us not forget the actual essence of the law, the direction and purpose of the use of the hoped-for amount of money. Promoting healthy lifestyles and regular physical activity has always been a priority in Fidesz policy. Sport XXI. The aim of the national sport strategy is to ensure regular recreational and residential sport activities in addition to leading sport. The proposal provides that revenues from distance gambling, lottery gambling, bookmakers' bets and sports betting, such as a toto, are to be used for football purposes through sports, including the revenues of the latter two types of games, i.e. the revenues linked to football through the Hungarian Football Association. This system is in itself in line with international practices which directly support sport in a specific part of the revenue generated by sports betting and gambling tax. To sum up, this proposal facilitates the conditions for licensing and taxation of online gambling, including online betting, but, of course, in such a way as to maintain the strict control of game operators. And we would use the proceeds of the facilitations for sport purposes. On the basis of the above, I urge my fellow Members who already want to watch football matches to give their bold support to the proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-19-261	Thank you. I give the floor to Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-06-19-262	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If we were to look at the title of the bill submitted, we might even think that this is really about sports betting. But if we read it better, then we can see that it mostly amends the concession law and the gambling law. This is another law that favours the privileged, bringing the privileged back to a better position. Let us briefly look at what has happened in the area of the gambling market in the last three years. The Gambling Act, as amended in the autumn of 2011, created the possibility of operating fixed server-based ATMs. At the same time, the toy tax was drastically increased, resulting in a decrease from the previous 25 thousand to around 1500, which remained on the market. In 2011, the toy tax revenue was HUF 51 billion and the government planned HUF 78.4 billion in 2012. About half of the toy tax revenue for 2011 came from the operation of the money-winning machines. The portfolio then expected stable tax revenues from the server-based gambling market from the second half of 2012. In July 2012, I addressed an interpellation to the Minister, which Mr Cséfalvay, in his reply, highlighted the advantages of server-based money-winning machines, talked about the positive impact of the transformation on budgetary revenues, and stated that they could also count on the fulfilment of the toy tax standards for money-winning machines for 2012-2013 and the revenue. In other words, the transfer to the server-based operation in 2012 was estimated at HUF 37.2 billion in revenue at the time. However, this revenue remains only a vision, since a change has been made to the arcades, and the toy tax revenue has also ceased. With the additional loss of tax revenue, the loss of jobs caused the loss of HUF 20-30 billion as a tax revenue at the time. They said that there was nothing wrong with that, because they would replace it from the tax on online gambling, and then this was planned for the budget with an extra HUF 10 billion. At the end of the gambling market, national security risks were referred to, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to the excessive number of addictive diseases. János Lázár said at the time: " It is quite strange that the Hungarian State would like to benefit financially from the dependent status of someone, his personal vulnerability, or his personal addiction, from the addiction of persons, and, where appropriate, by taxing them. I believe that this is incompatible with the mentality, political idea, system of view and world view of a civil-minded, conservative-minded politician. " John Lazarus said. The situation seems to have changed in the meantime. In October 2013, the three major casinos were the winners of Parliament's decision in an exceptional urgent procedure. The revenues of the three casinos in 2012 totaled 275 percent of the previous year. Clean game revenue and toy tax payments have also increased by more than a quarter. Then 2013 shows another huge rise. Las Vegas Casino's turnover increased from HUF 3.8 billion in 2012 to HUF 6.2 billion. [[19.10]] Its operating profit increased from HUF 683 million last year to HUF 1.97 billion. So there is nothing surprising about the fact that the company paid its owners dividends of HUF 1.68 billion more than three times the previous year. The Central Casino has increased its turnover even more since it has increased its turnover from 2.8 billion to 7.2 billion in one year. Its result increased from 747 million in the previous year to 2.38 billion forints. This casino is the Gambling Company. is within the scope of its interest and after the expiry of its concession permit and Szerencségy Zrt. on 31 December of this year. he hasn't proven to be a reliable gambler, he's gonna have to close it. After the casino operations in Budapest, Las Vegas Kft. acquired a right, so you don't have to guess who's going to continue running the casino. In August 2013, the idea was that ten rural casinos would be allowed to operate for ten years in the context of a private concession tender. True, at that time they did not know on what basis candidates would be selected. Minister of State Cséfalvay said in his reply to an earlier interpellation: "Our wallet is currently examining the II. The economic and legal conditions for the establishment of category 1 casinoes and the tendering procedure for the operation. Therefore, I cannot provide information on the selection principles and the conditions for applying at this stage of the preparation of the decision. "Secretary Cséfalvay said then. Since then, everything has become clear. In 2013, a bill was submitted stating that the Minister of Industry may refrain from issuing a public concession tender if the concession contract is concluded with a reliable gambling organizer. Therefore, anyone who is considered reliable can obtain the concession right to open the casino even without the tender. Exactly one month after the parliamentary elections in April, Minister Mihály Varga of the Ministry of Economy announced his decision that Las Vegas Kft. acquired the right to operate five casinos in Budapest and one casino in Pest county, while the Goldenbonus 2000. Ltd. has won two concessions for East Hungary. One of Las Vegas Casino's three existing casinos operates in Széchenyi Square, Budapest, whose concession expires this year. Aranybonusz Kft. On the other hand, it is completely new to this type of gambling market, according to 2012 data, it had HUF 700 million in revenue and zero employees. However, NGM argues that both winners are reliable taxpayers, which is why they received the concessions. Gambling Company. Although he started as a public company at the state casino tender, he did not win, but it is not known whether he lost because the state company is not transparent enough or not a reliable taxpayer, or if he promised little. We do not know what will happen to Zrt., but there are discussions about the type of gambling that the company can contribute most effectively to the budget revenues - said the National Economy portfolio. According to the legislative amendment adopted last year, 11 casinos in Hungary can obtain operating licenses. A maximum of five casinos can operate in the capital and Pest county, and there are currently two arcades, and their license lives until 31 December 2014: downtown or Tropicana Casino, which is the Szerencségy Zrt. is operated by Las Vegas Casino. The new casino concession contracts now issued provide that the concession period will start on 1 September 2014 for two concessions units in Budapest, while the remaining three games casino units in Budapest will start on 1 January 2015. Las Vegas can operate four new casinos in addition to the further operation of the current casino, but one of these is likely to mean taking over Tropicana if it can agree to the purchase price with the state company, as this is Szerencség Zrt. may no longer operate its installed operating casino. In the East-Hungarian region, there are up to three casinos, currently none. In accordance with the new concession contracts concluded, the concession period will start in Debrecen on 29 July 2014 in Nyíregyháza on 5 August 2014 and therefore this year. According to the bill just submitted, reliable gambling operators would also be able to operate online gambling. By applying the rules in a sensible way, you can therefore make an offer and enter into a concession contract for the organisation of a reliable gaming operator's long-distance gambling, says the proposal. Of course, it will immediately ease the situation, since "the annual concession fee equal to or greater than twice the amount of the concession fee provided for in the current Central Budget Act, " instead of the original text, according to the author, it would only have to pay the one-off amount of the concession fee. This would, of course, also apply to the concession fees for the two recently distributed rural and five Pest county casinos, and, being reliable, the amount would be deducted from the amount of the toy tax payable, which was left unchanged in the legislative text. The justification is that online gambling is gaining ground in the gambling market. However, the current Hungarian legislation does not make Hungarian appearance attractive to market participants with significant customer base and experience abroad. Thus, this market gap remains largely unused in the gambling market, and the Hungarian state does not generate significant tax revenues, says the motion. According to the motion, it is appropriate to allow companies based abroad or based in Hungary with the required capital requirements to organise remote gambling. According to the proposed amendment of the Gambling Organisation Act, remote gambling is a lottery, sports betting, card games and casino games when organised through a means of communication and a system. However, we do not know what will happen to the lottery and what will happen to the other series games. The monthly frequency and toy tax of remote gambling would be 10 percent of the defined clean game revenue. According to the motion, the supervisory fee would also be reduced. In case of remote gambling management, the debtors would pay 2.5 percent of the quarterly clean game revenues, but at least HUF 100,000 and up to HUF 10 million instead of HUF 50 million under the current law. The proposal would also reduce the concession fee previously set at too high a level, according to the wording. The minimum concession fee for 2014 would be HUF 30 million in the case of a remote gambling management licence valid for a type of game, HUF 15 million in the case of a multi-game remote gambling licence. The current legislation provides for HUF 100 million per type of toy. The case of remote gambling has been going on since September 2011. That's when the government created the concept of remote gambling. In almost three years since then, online casinos and sports betting sites with foreign interests have increased their turnover by banning money-winning machines and increasing mobile applications. There is no figure on how many billion forints are going out of the country every year, but it is certainly a significant sum, from which the Hungarian budget will not receive one forint. One year ago, Parliament adopted the proposal to set the concession fee for remote gambling at HUF 100 million per year and per type of toy, as well as the toy tax to be paid every two weeks as a percentage of the difference between pure toy revenues, bets paid during the period and prizes paid. In addition, the gambling supervision fee, as described above, should be paid. According to companies operating online gambling, there was an excessive concession fee, taking into account the possibilities of the Hungarian market. However, no one had a big problem with the 20 percent toy tax, which is a general measure in Europe, which is what they pay in several countries. Our fellow Member mentioned earlier that there is more where there is more. That is why it is incomprehensible to reduce this. Overall, we can say that the purpose of the law is contrary to the government's previously stated goals and direction in other areas. In other areas, it is considered important to increase the role of the State. We see the exact opposite here, because the state company, Gambling Company. a reduction in its market share. Now it is not important for a public company to be dominant in the market. With the current amendment, they will complete the redistribution of the gambling market. On the basis of the bill submitted, there is only one thing that can be seen: under even more favourable conditions, they want to provide a new market and billions more to friends and business circles. Therefore, the MSZP faction does not support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-263	Thank you. I give the floor to György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2014-06-19-264	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if, in the previous cycle, the gambling law looked back at the speeches made there by Fidesz, the same sentences, the same reasons, the same words could be heard. Much has not been changed since then. [[19.20]] We have also said, and I will say it now, for my part I think that we have had to negotiate, and we have to negotiate, this bill now because their socialist-liberal predecessors have already sold the state's wealth - yes, that's what I really think - and after the destruction of concrete wealth, you can no longer sell anything but property rights. This is what we are talking about here, because gambling is viewed as a right of property in the current legal order, and in addition, the scope of non-liberalised gambling is specifically defined by law. Currently, it is quite precisely stated in the legislation which types of gambling are only eligible for organisation by the State toy organizer. You wish to narrow down the scope of the games that are currently in state monopoly, if you like, although it is safe to say that the majority of Hungarian society, to put it mildly, has not had a very pleasant experience with privatisation. Let's assume that we are benevolent, that the otherwise well-known gambler with a profit can really be outsourced in rational circumstances. Apart from the fact that you have, in many cases, given a clear indication that you are thinking not only in a nation, with the greatest goodwill, this time we assume that the aim of the proposal is indeed to increase the central budget, the state budget. What, then, are these rational conditions that should be defined? Obviously, they are something that every seller, every seller, would like and for good reason apply to a transaction. In particular, it would obviously like to increase the price so that it can receive revenue directly and to the greatest extent possible, and secondly, to share the additional costs and possibly pass them on to the buyer. By reading the proposal, however, it seemed to me, to my great surprise, that you wished to close the sale from the position of the buyers; that the seller, as you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, were proposing, for some strange reason, how to benefit from public property, to signify remote gambling, as soon as possible, at a cost to the prospective buyer, under the most favourable terms. But let us look at what these conditions are. I am sure that, as a result of my brief presentation, you will feel, my fellow Members, that we are in the middle of a trade-off. First, a modification of the concession law is proposed, in which exactly halving the mandatory offer of the gambling organizer to the extent of the fee. At present, the pass states that in the concession procedure for the organisation of gambling, the bidder is obliged to bid twice the annual fee. However, you are gallantly ignoring this and saying that a single fee is enough, because the poor gambler has so many problems, he may have problems, and obviously he doesn't have enough money, so let's help him. Second, it is said that the legal minimum of the concession fee for gambling is also offensively high. This fee, which is, by the way, HUF 102.4 million per year, is proposed to reduce it to less than a third, i.e. HUF 30 million or, in other cases, to less than six, i.e. HUF 15 million, I say. At this point, even a layman would notice that, wow, something is not right here, our seller seems to be sitting backwards on the horse; as if we were going into, say, a car dealer's shop, and the fat-spoken Nephew would want us to be convinced that the item of his choice is actually not worth as much as it was originally written, it is enough to pay only one third or even six of the purchase price originally planned. However, the signs show that you do not like to stop halfway, so you offer additional discounts to the prospective private investor, the identity of which we obviously do not know at this stage, although if we went out on the street and asked the passersby, they would most likely find out about the potential business. Let's keep looking. Third, it is said that the supervisory fee associated with the organisation of remote gambling is also abnormally high. The current maximum HUF 50 million would therefore be appropriate to be determined at a maximum of HUF 10 million - this is also a great relief. But there's a fourth. They say that the tax on remote gambling, which is currently 20 percent of pure income, should now be 10 percent, let them also look for something in this business. Fifthly, it is also considered nonsense that half the toy tax should be paid every two weeks, since it is known that it is not important for the State to have access to its debts as soon as possible. From now on, it will be enough only to pay monthly. As a sixth - just so that 10 per cent is not quite 10 per cent - the method of calculating the tax base also changes, and it is natural that this time it will not be in favour of the budget either: the concept of pure game revenue changes, because expenses can be described, and not only the prizes paid, but also the fees paid for property rights will reduce profits. So much, I say, on the budgetary and financial side of things, because the proposal not only aims to facilitate the situation of future beneficiaries in this area. In their motion, they also proposed - I quote the legislation - that the trusty gambling organizer should have only HUF 50 million instead of the mandatory HUF 200 million subscribed capital so far, and that, for some inexplicable reason, the mandatory 10-year reference rule is considered unjustified, so it is proposed to delete it in practice with a noble simplicity. For some reason, you think that the organizer of the remote gambling is a reliable organizer for you. Finally, there is no better way to put the point on i than you do when you say: " A reliable gaming organisation can also be a foreign-based economic organization. " I'm just surprised that they didn't say that only a gambler who is based abroad can be trusted, or is very reliable, is registered in an offshore paradise. You could've said that, 'cause then you'd have that. So, my fellow Members, I feel that what you represent here with this proposal cannot be taken seriously, quite simply I think, astounding. I, too, am obliged to quote the eternal man who has to be quoted here within the walls of Parliament in recent times, János Lázár. How did János Lázár comment on this issue, say, 2011. CHAPTER IX On the 26th of the month, as the leader of the Fidesz faction between these benches? " If I understand the proposals made by the government and knowing our own intentions, we can safely sum up the current pre-vote situation in such a way that those whom the government wanted to involve in the tax round, in Hungarian, whom the government wants to tax, are obviously tobacco manufacturers, those who produce alcohol, participants in the gambling industry, without exception, will pay more taxes. Everyone will pay more taxes. " Well, how the government and personally János Lázár relate to tobacco manufacturers, we have all been familiar with it in the previous cycle, but where there is a lot of tobacco, gambling will also emerge sooner or later; we are currently witnessing this. You guys are getting more and more insatiable and want to double over and over again, right now with the remote gambling, tomorrow who knows what. But let us go back to John Lazarus. On 10 October 2012, he said: "It is clear to you that the Fidesz and KDNP fractions made it clear that we had different ideas about gambling than before when the government programme was drafted. We believe that gambling is usually prohibited. " In this spirit, we now read this bill. But he went on and said, " That's just the way we are, Fidesz and Christian Democrats, that we believe in a world where gambling is not the right thing to do. Of course, it does not have to be shared by those who agree with the aims of the bill, but I just wanted to establish our position in principle, that, in addition to practical tasks, practical urgent tasks, we in 2010 entered into government in such a way that gambling is not the right thing to do on a principle basis; it is particularly immoral, morally questionable, unethical and incompatible with our political views that it is the most vulnerable people or regions in the most disadvantaged, most difficult social situation where gambling is typical of everyday life. " That's what János Lazarus said a year and a half ago, and now you're trying to convince us to accept it, because it's going to be good, because it's going to come in revenue. Who's gonna play? Aren't they going to play the most unfortunate now? No? Yes! Won't the people who are addicted get on the plane? This is where you said, "Wow, these poor addicts are gonna throw their money in there." Doesn't that matter now? And I think that, in the light of the above, to present this bill, which we are discussing, is indeed extremely immoral, morally questionable and uncontroversial. [[19.30]] This is the typical case of " not listening to what I say, but what I do. " I have quoted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán here, not Mr Lazarus, but at least he has complied with this sentence; he has indeed said something completely different and has done something completely different in the last five years. So I feel that this whole law and the statements you're saying are typical of total divisions, the government is in a schizophrenic situation. There is, however, another aspect of the proposal, which is not only impertinent but also symbolic. In the text of the law, the Hungarian Football Association appears unexpectedly, I would say, inappropriate, but obviously not inexplicably. In addition, it receives additional licenses, significant additional licences, powers to which individual wallets are currently entitled. But more importantly than driving licenses, you'll have more resources, you'll have a lot more money than you've ever had before. Obviously, everyone will soon find an answer if you ask yourself what the president of MLO is called today. Is it possible that the MLZ or its president did not know about the bill that we have just received? Will they be caught off guard by the provision that not only the totó's toy tax should be used to raise replacements through MLSZ, but also the toy tax of bookmakers' bets and remote gambling? In addition, installing the proceeds of bookmakers' bets to MLSZ gives the whole idea a very strange byte. This was certainly because the public body proved its worth by how quickly and professionally it began to manipulate the results of various championship and league-up matches by football organisations, as everyone knows for years they have not noticed that players, game managers, professionals are tinkering, selling and buying matches. For years, the experts of MLS didn't notice that! I didn't realize there was something wrong here. Can we believe that MLSZ did not know what was going on in Hungarian football courts? What's going on with those referees who cheated on international matches? Yes, you can. And then they get some money from this bookie system! In addition, we are talking about the MLSZ who, in vain, we are asking the competent minister of the government, we only get the answer that MLSZ is a public body independent of government, so that the general rules cannot be applied to the publicity of its management. The proposal is therefore also unacceptable from a sporting point of view. To sum up, I therefore think that the proposal is not in the interest of society; it is obviously not a community, but an individual, if you will, with lobbying interests. It provides additional resources to the Hungarian Football Association, which has been operating inaccessiblely, without creating the most minimal possibility of accountability for the budget. In view of all this, I ask the rapporteur to withdraw his proposal as soon as possible. In addition, I will press for a normal comment because when we discussed the law in the previous term, we also said that we can make such a law if we do not have the technical conditions to enforce it in Hungary at the moment. So if we don't have the technical requirement to make a law and enforce that law with online gambling operators, if we don't have the opportunity to force them to comply with this law, then it's completely unnecessary to make such laws. If you'll allow me, I'll tell you in a few words what has happened in the past, since the state was supposed to have had more than a year's revenue from this, and as was said here at Roland Mengyi and everyone else, there was only one such concession procedure that they couldn't go through, there was only one applicant. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-265	Thank you. I give the floor to Sallai R. Benedek, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-06-19-266	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for your speeches. Mr Csaba Tóth's data and György Szilágyi's speech have already partly taken away my bread, since they have argued in such detail against the amendment of the legislation, which is now all I have left to talk about some issues of principle. In the case of questions of principle, let me first say how symbolic it is that, on the days of the parliamentary session, we were discussing the gates of entry last week, now online gambling, while the social situation of the country, the situation in the countryside, is constantly crying out for the speech, the transformation, to find solutions to the problems, while we are dealing with online gambling and entry gates. But obviously these are important questions, which is why I have no choice but to talk about what they are doing to me and what this House allows. I'd like to go over some principled questions. Here were quotes from Mr. Lazarus a year and a half ago about what happened or what he said and what he was quoting two years ago. I don't have to go this far, I just need to go back to last week and see what arguments have been made in the advertising tax argument: why tax burdens should be imposed with greater care on the taxation of activities that are harmful to society, which are dangerous to society, and which are detrimental to the ethical perception of society. These were made here last week as an argument, and last week it was also said how unfair it is to set rates or charges if they do not appear at a percentage level. At the same time, we see that in the various fees, such as the supervisory fee, we can afford without further delay. A week ago, we heard the importance of tax revenues, and a Member from Fidesz spoke about how small settlements would need tax revenues. Please, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are reducing taxes right now, but we are not reducing taxes on employers, we are not reducing taxes on workers, we are not talking about how to help employment, we are talking about how to reduce the tax on distance gambling, how to reduce this sector. At the same time, I fully agree with Mr Erik Bánki's comment on the lack of 300 million to support recreational sports. I just want to know who in your benches came up with the idea of turning billions into stadiums. Who said that those resources would not be more efficient, a better place in many rural settlements, many, many educational organizations and local sports associations to develop sports culture? So who said we have to put billions into improvements that, however, do not serve the goals that you have set in principle? Obviously, here we cannot ignore the constant discussion of how these can be achieved if we are talking about tax revenues and we need revenue. So, first of all, Minister of State Gábor Orbán said in his speech that the fundamental reason for the amendment is that online rules cannot be enforced. I just don't see in this legislative amendment proposal the guarantees that the changed, reduced-rate rules can be enforced by anyone. Where is the institutional system of those who will follow the changed rules, enforce them, and make real tax revenues? 'Cause right now, all we see is a reduction in taxes. First, the tax on remote gambling is reduced from 20% to 10% of pure game revenue. We have heard international examples, we have heard the same international examples from the other benches, 10-20 percent, so we find an international example in support of virtually everything, and we also find an international example of the opposite of everything, so as an argument, it does not really sound very good. Then we talked about the fact that, while according to the 2014 budget, for remote gambling management licences, HUF 102.4 million should have been paid per type of game, after the amendment, the license of the types of games will be reduced to HUF 30 million, and for each other HUF 15 million will have to be paid. Once again, we see that we want to reduce the burden of a sector from which we have not seen tax forints so far, and yet we see from the examples that we have heard that it does not basically serve employment goals, it does not serve to build society, it does not serve to improve the lives of local communities, but is in some way linked to a narrower interest group. Mr Mengyi Roland said here at the beginning of his speech that we would welcome him, because this world-wide football, called the World Championship, is now taking place. I've heard that there is one, I'm sure I wouldn't want to bet on it, unlike your assumption, but not just me, but the problem is that neither is the vast majority of society. How many people in Hungarian society are affected by this problem that they are so trembling about their online reception that they cry out for it, that I wish they could make it easier with legislative modification options? What proportion of Hungarian society, the rural population, is affected by this? [[19.40]] What kind of legislation is it that if we again create a situation where we are trying to serve a narrow group with goals that are partly unrespectable, as has been said, we do not see any meaningful tax forints, and in the meantime we are making facilitations that clearly achieve objectives contrary to the Fidesz rhetoric? I have seen this in the proposal: to win a concession, you have to be a reliable gambling organizer. I liked the word "reliable " very much, even because, while meeting almost unfulfilled requirements, offshore background is not an obstacle to such a concession. And it has already been said, István Vajna or Vajna Pista, or who this is, Andy Vajna, or I don't know what the proper Hungarian name of this is. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Basically, without further ado, you can create an opportunity with an offshore background. At the same time, I saw this statement as interesting among the arguments: " The Hungarian market acquisition of foreign companies is justified because the obligation to set up a company in Hungary would keep these participants from entering the legal market, which would maintain the current uncertain legal situation and significantly reduce competition. " Please, among the same benches, I keep hearing about the positive investment opportunities in Hungary; I hear about what an incredible paradise it is, investors are coming, and the opportunities for companies to develop, open up and create jobs are constantly improving. At the same time, the pro-government author says that the current situation is uncertain, says that business start-up opportunities are not favourable and argues that this is why it should be allowed in. So far, I have heard from Fidesz that this is not a good, some kind of cursed system, I have heard that the Hungarian economy needs to be strengthened, the revenues should be kept in place as far as possible, the profits that Hungarian people produce and income from resources in relation to their work should stay in place. Do we then create the possibility of giving up on this and only needing 10 percent of it, and without further ado, foreigners use the rest of it simply in other countries? This is not the wise resource management, it does not keep these opportunities in place - why should this be facilitated? The tax reduction proposal is justified by the whitening of the segment, reducing the concession fee set at an excessive level last year. I don't know who made this legislation last year, and it was too high, but technically, wasn't it supposed to be thought through? So we are constantly hearing that there is a deliberate and sound legislative process, while we constantly admit that legislation cannot be complied with and that it does not serve the purpose for which it is born. And for this reason, we want to reduce the tax burden for a sector - for the third time - which is not basically serving the lives of Hungarian people. Why is it the Hungarian government's aim to help the online gambling to develop it? Up until now, he has done exactly the opposite, and my fellow Member György Szilágyi has described in detail the history of this by quoting what was the previous position of the same government and its predecessor. Congressman Roland Mengyi said that the use of the amount hoped for could not be overlooked, that it would serve important purposes, that in his last five minutes he only talked about how good that would be. I know that feeling, and I've already bought a lottery, and I've started to wonder how good it would be if it worked out, what I'd give, what I'd buy to clean up the house. This cow isn't here yet, but we want to milk it now, and that's why, if it's here, what we could use it for, that's the worst argument. That if legislation were to be adopted that could be respected, if the government wanted to create legal certainty, regulation would have to serve the purpose of being partially enforceable and partly consistently serving the objectives it has set. Forgive me if I refer back to the advertising tax, it was not only a week ago that the government side argued about the advertising tax, which I already quoted, that traffic or communication that is harmful and detrimental to society should be reduced, but now it comes with the fact that online betting will be good for Hungarian society, but it should also be recalled that tax revenues, there was always a question of how important they were, and now we are constantly talking about reducing tax revenues. So, overall, we have heard professional arguments from my fellow opposition Members, and I have basically absolutely fundamental problems. And to tell you the truth, I'm gonna end my problems with a little bit of a bad taste in my mouth. At the end of the previous agenda, Mr Erik Bánki said that the opposition has always been looking for the knot and not very constructive. I really do apologise, so that I would like to be fundamentally very constructive, and I would very much like to discuss things that we are proposing, so we also had a proposal on what we should bring to Parliament, unfortunately, they do not come here consistently. I know that Fidesz was a very constructive opposition, and I watched Parliament's mediations, and I know that when the MSZP governed, you supported it in every way and supported it with constructive proposals. Forgive us for our basic contract not to do so, but to improve this parliamentary work. Believe me, Mr Bánki, that I do not want to interfere with your legislation and governance, I just want us to talk about those things between Parliament's walls and expect the consistency that you have always promised. Unfortunately, that is not what I see at the moment, and that is why we will not be able to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-19-267	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a 15-15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the Member in writing, Péter Cseresnyés.
u2014-06-19-268	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, online sports betting has become part of our everyday lives, and all of this has been happening in a way that has become almost - you can say - opaque in recent times. Therefore, the concept of remote gambling was created by the government in 2011, responding to the changes in the gambling market, which showed the spread of online games. In the nearly three years since then, online casinos and sports betting sites of foreign interest have been able to increase their sales by banning money-winning machines, precisely because of the situation after the ban, and by increasing mobile applications. That is why it was necessary - as my fellow Member, Mr Roland, has already mentioned - to amend the law in 2013. In the course of the amendment of the Hungarian law, the principle of licensing gambling by the tax authority was based on the grounds that the law was used to ensure the creation of an adequate personal and economic background for organizing activities, high-quality tangible assets, safety and professionalism. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In addition, the regulation was also justified by the fact that online gambling did not mean any actual revenue to the Hungarian budget, and that the participation of Hungarian citizens in gambling abroad as players could not be followed, so it was difficult to detect and sanction. Unfortunately, there is no record of how many billion forints have gone out of the country and out of the pockets of the Hungarian people every year, but it is certainly a significant sum, of which the Hungarian budget will not receive any HUF, either a toy tax, a concession fee or any other form. However, as I would like to discuss later, there were consequences and consequences on the sports support side, since it doesn't matter how much money we can spend on sports support. This situation was desired by the government, and we wish and wish to change, because the expected revenues have not been received, which is why it is necessary to change the conditions and to mitigate them. In the case of remote gambling, the tax we hope to collect will be used by the State for purposes which cannot lead to criticism by the European Court of Justice, since it will be earmarked for sport support, including support for the Hungarian Football Association. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The Kuria also stated in its opinion that the authorisation system and regulation of the Hungarian gaming organisation comply with the Gebhard test, and that the restriction principles laid down by the European Court of Justice are complied with. So in this respect, if there is a problem at all, it does not come from conflict with the EU or infringement proceedings, because Hungarian legislation is in line with EU principles. Of course, the amount of gambling is an important source of income, but I would like to stress that, in addition, health and social aspects have always been a priority for us on this issue, and as much as they have tried to disprove it from the opposition side, this has not changed, it has remained so and will remain so. Let me remind you of the autumn of 2012, when the National Assembly banned slot machines, also known as one-armed robbers, despite the powerful lobby. [[19.50]] We were aware that the operation of the money-winning machines was not only a serious economic burden, but also a serious mental, health and social burden for society. Professional research supports the use of gambling and other addictive agents and the link between alcohol disease, and therefore, the cash-winning machines can be operated only in limited number of gambling casinos. I would like to note in parentheses, of course, that I mentioned, on this market, which means that a number of people may have turned to remote gambling, and that there were money running towards gambling companies that were uncontrollable, so the purpose of this bill is to bleach it. Now allow me to talk a little bit about what the state will use this hoped-for revenue of a few billion sizes for. As set out in the bill, this revenue should be used in the sports sector. This means not only the support given to the Hungarian Football Association, but also the support of recreational sports in Sport XXI. as per strategy. In Hungary, the proportion of sport activity in Europe is abnormally low. Only 7-9 percent of the adult population regularly play sports, while it ranges from 15 to 20 percent in the European Union countries. Based on the experience of recent years, it can be said that rethinking state involvement in recreational port has become essential. Progress can only be made if there is significantly closer cooperation between government and non-governmental actors responsible for a healthy, movement-rich lifestyle among the population compared to so far. As you know, Sport XXI. The program aims to select the top athletes of the future from the broadest possible range of sports children. The whole point of a single system of supply is to give children and young people equal opportunities, to bring talented young people to competitions and top sports, and to direct young people out of competition sports to a permanent sport facility operated in another system. It aims to broaden sports funds from 6 years to 14-15 years of age, to involve as many children as possible in regular physical training and to provide a selection base for the Hercules programme. State sports management in this area also cooperates with non-governmental organisations for sport purposes, including the Hungarian Student Sport Association, the National Student and Leisure Sport Association of Disabilities and the Hungarian Leisure Sport Association. The law also names the Hungarian Football Federation, through which the expected revenues must be used for football purposes. I would just like to quote some of the programs of MLSZ. This is the national track development programme, one of the main objectives of which is to widen the mass base, the stadium security programme, the sports yard renovation programme or the academic program, which aims to improve both the training of replacements and the infrastructure of football, so it is not only a stadium construction, but also, if you go home, you can see how many artificial grass fields have been built in schools, housing sites, a part of the city or in a settlement, that, among other things, this money is being spent on, my fellow Member, this proposal is also about this. [[György Szilágyi: What does gambling have to do with MLSZ?]] Ladies and gentlemen, With this detour, I just wanted to illustrate that the toy tax would not come to the wrong place. It is in our common interest to create conditions for both foreign and domestic gaming operators, under which it is no longer worth it to operate on the black market under illegal conditions, but it is more worthwhile for them to come out to light and pay taxes, and in return to operate in a regular and profitable manner under controlled conditions. In order to make these ideas a reality, I suggest that you consider adopting the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-19-269	Thank you very much. I respectfully welcome you. Good evening, everyone. I see two applicants among those who ask for a normal word. First, Congressman László Varga, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Many arguments have been made in pro and versus. My fellow Members have obviously said the most part of the ideas I share, since there is a very bad smell of this proposal, let us say it. I've had a talk with the traffic dog, and I've had a lot of other parallels. This may all be true, but I'll try to be a little fair at first. Years ago, we talked about the fact that there is an area in Hungary that is the area of grey or black economy, an area from which the Hungarian budget cannot actually see revenue, this is the area of remote gambling and online gambling. Speaking of sports, sports betting is obviously a significant part of these areas. In the previous cycle, we heard a lot about whether it would be worth regulating, generating revenue for the budget. If I want to be fair - and that's all I'm saying - then it can be agreed that if there is an existing social phenomenon, because we know that in this way people make bets, we can see such advertisements, we can see in everyday life that this phenomenon exists, if there is a social phenomenon, then it is worth setting it within the framework of the state, within a regulated framework, and if obviously this type of activity can be harmful, then it is worth getting income from what you can spend for specific purposes, not in any way. It has been said that there are facilitations here which, let's say, create opportunities for a well-defined business circle. I think that the people who spoke before me have made their arguments, and that is at least question-signal, but after all the land affairs and trade-related matters, it's relatively clear what's going to happen. However, it is also true that the current legislation, on which I believe many people said in July last summer, is not going to work in this form... - the state did not really receive any revenue from this. However, there was a section in the Budget Act which provided for the use of such revenue. The speakers spoke little about this, so let me highlight this, because many things have been said, and I would not like to repeat that the concession law is amended by this proposal, the Gambling Organisation Act, the Sports Act, and, fourthly, it should be said that Hungary is amending its central budget for 2014. There's the 23rd. Paragraph 21 is replaced by a new text. In such cases, there is a feature of these submissions that we can see these texts here, if the author does not justify to an end why he has changed this text, then we can slide over, we can overlook it, because it is only a section in a salad law, but I compared it with the original text, which is in the budget law, and let me compare it here, because it is also a talkative thing. I only thought of it because, before me, Congressman Cseresnyés referred to a great deal of replacement training for recreational sports, a small detour for me, too: reduced spending on recreational sports in the previous cycle is halved, despite the fact that the amount to be spent on sport has increased in absolute terms, I do not dispute that, of course, there is significant and, for the time being, there is no doubt about sustainable investment, but let us put this in parentheses. So, in contrast to the fact that you were talking about re-educational goals and leisure port goals, the original budget law states: " The '91th XXXIV on Gambling Management. Law 32 The revenue from the gaming tax pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of this Article shall be used to support sports supply training tasks. " That's the first sentence of this passage. The amendment, which is not justified by death, says: "The '91th XXXIV on Gambling Management. Law 32 In 2014, the cash flow revenue from the teleluck gaming tax pursuant to paragraph 5 of Section 5 of the Hungarian Football Association shall be used to support football. " Now these are clearly two separate stories. One, of course, we are talking about theoretical revenues for the time being, but here we have heard, from Roland Mengyi's speech, about tens of billions of people who expect what you will receive here. Of course, it is a question of what reality this is, but of what we do not know the exact scale of it, but it is a matter of principle that it was originally intended to be used for re-education purposes in the fiscal law, and now the MLSZ receives this revenue in one piece, without any other criteria - this is included in the proposal. [[20.00]] It is, however, not compared and transferred to the 2014 central budget. Here is the problem with this: from now on, it cannot be said to be used. P.L.S. can decide that. I am not talking about the fact that, in general, sport support is concentrated in the direction of visual team sports, in the direction of the five visual team sports, especially football. This will also strengthen this process, as there are a wide variety of re-supply training tasks, in several sports, Olympic sports, not in Olympic sports, in a wide variety of fields. Here, however, the Hungarian Football Association will receive this amount of money that will come in later. Erik Bánki and I have known each other for a very long time, of course, because he has been a sports politician here for years, MLSZ member of the board, and he said today that, as another fellow Member pointed out, last week we were discussing something that would hold our hand on the percussion of Hungarian society, so that we might not have thought of the first proposals in the new Parliament to tighten the entry systems even further into the stadiums. Here, I don't know how a retina scanner will determine how a person can enter a stadium, so this retina scanner story has stirred up the Hungarian cheerleading society in the last week and a half, right, protests and statements have been made against it. And today, Erik Bánki said that this is good, by the way, and this is the future of Hungarian football, the safest stadiums in Europe. Well, that's what I think, because if they're gonna introduce them, people aren't gonna go to a game. And the safer it is than not being at the stadium, it can't really be. So, putting the two together, the statements and this clause, you don't need the money to install these retinal scanners everywhere? I'm just asking. Obviously, this story cannot be supported, not because of what has already been said, and then I will not repeat it, there is a smell of this thing, there was no expectation of what was quickly accepted last summer. I think that it is unacceptable to say that the Hungarian sports association, MLSZ, which receives the strongest financial support, should receive new funds at the expense of recreational sport again, at the expense of replacement training tasks, so that the law does not provide in any way for them to be spent on precisely what tasks. On the other hand, I think that Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of our group, has given the opinion of our group, so we do not support the presentation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi asked for the floor, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak to my colleague Peter Cseresnyés. I swear, with all due respect, this speech you have spoken has risen to such demagogic heights as the so-called ventilator speech in this House. Well, sir, you've told me everything, a healthy way of life, improving sports opportunities, ensuring that youth should be raised here, but this has nothing to do with this law at the moment. Of course, we too, the Jobbik Hungary Movement, we declare that we support healthy lifestyles, young people's sports opportunities, we want to take into account the health aspects that you have listed, we want to take into account all of them, but this law has absolutely nothing to do with it. In fact, I'm going to go on: we're not fighting to tax online gambling operators right now, but we're fighting against you trying to make these online gambling operators easier. We say we tax them hard, if we can, because you're also saying there are mental problems with gambling sufferers, that when, with the gambling law, you stopped gambling machines all over the country, you did it for these addicts. But what did they do? You say that probably a significant part of them turned to the online market. And then he says the only thing that needs to happen is to try to whiteen the black economy. Well, if we check them out, if this works normally, is it okay for poor patients to spend their money there? If it becomes an income for the state, then it's okay what poor addicts do, how will they feel mentally in front of the slot machine? Isn't that a problem? Of course it's a problem. Then we should talk about what we have said several times, and here, you have spoken again about whitening the black economy, which you also said in the previous term. And then, you know, they don't talk about how a year ago, we drew attention to making laws that can be enforced. What does Gábor Orbán say? We should enforce the laws and the rules. Well, who stopped you from following these laws and regulations you've made over the past year? Or if something's stopped you because I know what stopped you, it's what we called your attention to a year ago that I don't know how to do this technically right now. Well, how are they gonna technically solve these things? You think the big online gambling sites, and I don't want to name names here, are they not coming to the Hungarian market because they would have a problem with, say, 200 million forints, or would they have a problem with such a concession fee? No, they're not coming in because you don't have any effect on this market right now, technically. Why would they come in? In fact, what they could have done, they didn't even do, because, right, it's illegal for these illegal gambling sites to advertise in Hungary. What do you meet? That they can even advertise in public media. They were not even forbidden to advertise their illegal activities in Hungary at all. Well, we should start enforcing the laws at the foundation. And then we could talk about whether it is technically justified to tax these pages at some level. We say we support this, too, to tax these pages, if possible. But what we're not doing is making it easier for them to come into the market. They're not gonna come into the market. As long as they can't force them to do it, these people won't come in. But tell me, because I'm curious, you could answer that, and I'd expect from the government how to block these pages. What are the technical conditions for blocking these sites? Or you could also tell me if offshore companies can play online gambling here, you will come in with these companies and consider that they can conclude concession contracts with them, if there is a problem with these companies, how they will enforce your will against these companies, or how they will act against these companies. The reason I am asking is because you made a law, from 1 January 2012 it was in force that in Hungary an offshore company with an opaque ownership structure could not receive state aid or receive public money. This law shall apply from 1 January 2012. What happened when we checked in August 2012 whether the National Development Agency that existed at the time paid off offshore companies? Suddenly we found 30 billion forints that you paid off offshore companies. 30 billion forints, since we're talking about how much revenue we should get! Were you able to recover one forint from these companies? Could you bring back a forint in the last two years? They couldn't bring back any forints. In fact, not only could they not bring back any forints, but still to this day we are asking these nearly 70 companies to tell us who the owners are. He's saying right now that the Prime Minister's office doesn't know yet. Even if we go to court, they don't know. There are two reasons. One of them is that they know very well who they are, because your companies are behind them, your people are behind them. The other option, which is at least so terrible, is that they really don't know who these companies are. Then how are they ever going to deal with them? 'Cause if there's any way they can walk, you tell me. I'd like an answer to that, because otherwise it's completely unnecessary, so we can take it down to zero forints. Then maybe someone will show up, but then there won't be any revenue. And why do we even need a state monopoly? You are constantly issuing the state monopoly just like this. [[Gábor Orbán approaches the expert box.]] You can be offended by these things, you can walk out of the room, but if you're telling the truth, you're telling the truth. The other thing that's come up here, and I'd like to talk to you about it, is that if there really was revenue here, which I don't, so we can talk about healthy lifestyles and footballs, there should be revenue a year ago. How many forints did it come in? How many forints could we have spent on this? Zero. So there wasn't a penny. You could say a healthy lifestyle - from zero forints. Wow, this is gonna be fun. [[20.10]] But let's just say there's gonna be revenue. Where do they give this money? The future of Hungarian football, the Hungarian Football Association. Let's just get to the point where we can be honest with each other. In Hungary, Hungarian football has no future, as long as this Hungarian Football Association operates, because the fish reeks of its head. People have been in positions in the Hungarian Football Association for 20 years, without any product or result, since a generation has grown up, which has not yet seen the Hungarian national team at the World Championship! The young people who went to the match today did not see the Hungarian team out in an international competition because they did not get out, and for 20-21 years people have been happy to meet them in the Hungarian Football Association, and young people with management views are not allowed there. They waste billions, they spend billions! It's very nice, really, to do artificial grass fields, it's very nice that in 2012, all the visual team sports got, besides football, as much money - and here we are talking about serious Olympic sports - as is the Academy of Felcsút! And how many world-famous football players have been raised by the Highway Academy? But not world-famous, but only videoton would play three of them - but none of them play! Well, I beg you, there's one in the frame. And if we look at the World Championship now, we can see that there are such a few academys in Croatia, where players of great value are raised. So that's money thrown out the window? Of course it's a waste of money, because the job of an academy is to raise players. Not a mass sports base, but players, because young people play football as many as possible, that's education for a healthy lifestyle. You're saying things here, bringing up things in a completely different context that have nothing to do with this law. You can say nice things here, you can paint the world pink here, but it's nothing but that you want to sell a state monopoly, but you don't have a chance to force big companies to sell it, so now you're trying to lure them in by subtracting the concession. It's the only way there's gonna be no revenue. Well, then, why are we lowering the concession? Solve the problem if you can solve it technically, and then stay the same, which, by the way, I think you can do. Each major company that deals with online gambling can sell serious tens and hundreds of billions, without any problem with the concession fee, the tax and everything else originally included in the law. Just because they're taking him down now doesn't mean they're coming in. Unless the goal is - and this may also be the goal - that there may be some Hungarian circles close to you that could use it now if they tried to enter the online gambling market for as little money as possible, they would try to compete with large international companies in Hungary alone and try to help them do so. Then I'm telling you, if these charges go down like this, they're squandering a state monopoly. So I'm gonna ask you once again to think if this makes any sense, because we don't think it does. I would consider it the best and I would consider it appropriate if there were to remain the same regulation as before, with this regulation we agree, we can support this, we cannot support any kind of facilitation. If you like it, in order to protect the addicts, the poor people, we ask that as few people are present in this market as possible, if there is already a fully Hungarian market, because we should not forget that a market dominated by fully Hungarian companies, the gambling market, was destroyed by you, in order to give it to foreigners, but we only had two prominens who could not agree which company could enter, and then they decided that none of them would be present on the market. But unfortunately, I'm afraid that in the next three years we'll be talking about the gambling bill, I'm afraid that when the online-based fortune machine market opens, and it may be possible to run it again in catering places that you will bring in through your friends, then the fate of the poor and passionate people will not be so much a problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Péter Cseresnyés, rapporteur, asked for the floor. You have the floor, please.
u2014-06-19-274	I asked for a word in two minutes, I was a two-minute pusher, but maybe I was a bad pusher.
u2014-06-19-275	She was two minutes old, but she's got 15 minutes as an author. Don't limit your rights to yourself, talk to me, and if you don't have any more thoughts, then don't talk to me after. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-276	Thank you. I would like to respond briefly to the speech of György Szilágyi, because I think that it is not in the end that we should say the few thoughts that I would like to say now, but in the meantime, while the viewers, who are still interested in today's debate, have fresh experiences about his comment. He was talking about demagoguery. Well, what I've heard in the last ten minutes has been deep demagogia, my dear fellow Member. Because, unfortunately, he was not talking about what this amendment is about, because this amendment that is before us is all about taxing distance gambling and not all about gambling taxation. So if you had read the amendment of the law carefully and listened carefully to what I was talking about, then generally when I was talking about mass sports, I was talking about the distribution principles so far and the processes that have worked so far, because this is where a large part of the money from gambling is being spent. And this is what we want to expand from the tax on remote gambling, which has not yet taken place, and precisely because we see that the current system does not work, specifically in the case of telefort, because there is no tax, so we are trying to amend the law so that it becomes a legally functioning, whitened and functioning area where tax forints will come from. That's what this is about, and not about what you've been trying to say here as a message, targeting many, many areas, and depicting many, many areas completely false images. I have one more thing to say. There are still sports fields that are built from gambling tax, tax forints. I would like to say this once again, as in my speech, as a reaction to your intervention, I told you that in a lot of places this solves the problem of everyday physical education, mass sports is carried out on such sports fields, including sports fields built with these money. If you're wondering, I'm gonna tell you a couple of places where this works great. Visit her, look at her, find out what she's made of and what she's used for. Do not say that nothing has happened, do not say that no money has been spent on mass sports, and that the state has not spent money on mass sports, and not just on football, but on mass sports at all. Once again, I would like to make it clear to you that we are talking only about remote gambling and not about the tax on gambling in general.
u2014-06-19-277	Thank you very much. We now have two-minute speeches. First, Congressman Szilágyi, from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-278	Thank you very much. Mr Cseresnyés, once again you say that we are talking about online gambling and tele gamble, but all you have said in your speech is that you are talking about something else. Well, then, tell me about online. Then I'll just ask you questions, and if you answer those questions, I'll thank you very much. So far, how much money have you managed to distribute over the past year from the revenue from the tele gamble? Nothing. That's not what you were talking about. My other question is, what will cause any revenue to come in? Tell me what's gonna get you started. The fact that you're making the terms easier? Do they make it easier on the terms or not? Do you also deny that they ease conditions? Do you deny that, too? Well, then tell me what it's made of. I'd also like to know where you're getting all this data you've been talking about. Give me just one example, because you can give me an example, and I would be very happy to do so, because you can't get such information from the MLSZ, so give me an example of the revenue that has flown from gambling to the Hungarian Football Association, which is the sports facility, tell me, because I would very much like to know which sports facility was built from it. You can't say that because those are air data you just said. Tell me whether you're making it easier on the terms or not, what's gonna make more money coming in, what's gonna make money into this system, and tell me, please, what I asked you about, how you're gonna control these things, how you're gonna force them to do it. Tell me, please, because then you know how to block sites that refuse to buy the concession fee. [[20.20]] Under what technical conditions will these sites be blocked? What is the possibility of bringing these companies into the taxpayers' camp and actually whitening the black economy? And why are they even trying to make it easier? Answer me that. Don't get me wrong. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-19-279	A two-minute speech will be held by MEP László Varga, MSZP. Here.
u2014-06-19-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Leisure sport - although it is not closely related to the proposal, we talk about it only so many times that I may make some statements. On the one hand, the Wesselényi Public Foundation, which served the purpose of recreational sports, supported such goals, otherwise, after this termination, the budget money reduced the support for recreational port in the given year, which, by the way, decreased steadily and drastically over the last cycle. There have been years that have barely exceeded 300 million forints, and several times have been blocked from recreational port support. That's just in parentheses. We're just talking about it so many times that I wanted to tell you that. I understand many of the terms of Congressman Cseres. Then I would like to simplify one of my questions. So why do you think that, if you consider leisure sports and replacement tasks so important, that instead of supporting replacement training tasks, you should focus on the support of the Hungarian Football Association? That's what's in this proposal. So I understand that the Hungarian Football Association has already built a field, has already done such projects, supported such projects, and it is also a small part of Tao Support, but a very important part of the Tao Support has supported such goals, as well as goals to have a stadium in Felcsút for 3.5 billion, supported such ones, there was indeed a year when the combined Tao Support of the four professional associations outside football and the Hungarian Olympic Committee was less than the support of the Academy of Felcsút in that year. So I'd really narrow down the field. The non-indoor... - but maybe it'll all come in this year, 2014 after all. So, why do you want to spend these subsidies on MLS, not on replacement training? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-06-19-281	Thank you. In normal time frame, Sallai R. Benedek, LMP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-19-282	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Calm down, I'm not gonna talk for 15 minutes, I'm just afraid I'm gonna slip out of two. Well, with the comments of Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, I am only inspired to comment on this subject. First of all, I wanted to thank Mr Cseresnyés, because, as far as I have seen in my past one month's career, he is almost the first pro-government Member to respond at all during a debate - so that we can appreciate this. It is true that these " no point in answering " speeches did not fit your previous attitude, but I thank you very much for your reactions. In his first sentence, in his first comment, he began in his first reaction to the fact that online uses and online betting opportunities became part of our daily lives. Well, I punched his name in Google right away, and I'm telling you, it's got to be some kind of XII. district or downtown, who thinks it's everyday, but I can see that he's a Nagykanizsai educator, he's seen rural people, so I don't know where he gets that he's become part of our daily lives. The vast majority of Hungarian society does not even have smartphone usage, not even online. So it's a very, very narrow layer for whom online betting has become part of their everyday lives. I don't know what kind of measurements they have for the participants in this, but in any case, it's a little out of line with what could be a distortion of the real facts. At the same time, I am surprised to see the argument that if you don't get enough tax forints, we will reduce taxes to see if something comes in. And I don't have a problem with that, so you can start with every kind of tax if you see that you're not giving, if you're a little bit reduced, if you're gonna pay, then you're gonna drop down again in six months, and maybe you're gonna see this same legislative amendment proposal in six months or a year, and you're gonna have to cut it again. Now that's 10 percent, let's try to reduce it by 5 percent. The only thing that bothers me about this is that let me go back to - it also does not belong to online betting - why, if such an approach, we cannot examine why the burden on the employer and employers cannot be reduced. In the LMP, my fellow Members or predecessors have been saying for five years how jobs and employment should be helped. Why are we talking about this? Why are we not talking about what is affecting the majority of Hungarian society? Why are we experimenting on this? And while we're experimenting, I'm so curious about what impact assessments are preventing this from happening, what kind of traffic it could be. Where do these numbers come from, so much money can come in, so much money can come in? What representative research could have preceded this proposal, on the basis of which the national would assume an increase in revenue by reducing such a tax? What's the basis for that? 'Cause if it's possible to measure how I can bleach from a black economy, and there's research that separate companies might specialize in asking people about the black economy, then the question is again, that the good 500,000 people who work in the black economy can be brought in without notice. How can we ask their black employers? Because if there's a methodology to this, I'd like to apply it to more important issues than what we're talking about right now. And it's interesting, isn't it, because you've started sharing that money again in your speech, and I'm telling you that I like to dream like this, so I'm glad to hear it too, but I just don't understand that it can be so good, I'm looking at it here, it's so good to be such a pro-government person, so that we have an idea, no one cares about it, no one's gonna vote, we're not even gonna discuss it. You have an idea, and we can argue about it, we can talk about it, and I envy you that this opportunity comes to pass. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You must win the election!]] I'm so happy about this, but at the same time, I'm asking myself, among their own partymates, in their faction, when they split the annual budget, these mass sports demands don't come up. Or in the debate within the faction, when it comes to the budget, it doesn't occur to me that, uh, it would be nice to give a little bit more money for leisure sports, but it would be nice to give a little more for a healthy lifestyle education. So it doesn't occur to the annual budget that you could solve all the problems you're about to take with about a kilometer of freeway, and there's a much more chance you could make out of that money than you're making out of the money you just didn't get, the unclaimed money, the milking of this non-existent cow, which we might actually be back here in six months' time, so how much more are we gonna cut, in case someone comes. If I were such a black economy online inn, and I saw that this is how it works, that I've been in a black economy so far, I haven't paid anything, I've seen it drop, so I'll wait a little bit. Didn't anyone take the exam when they offered to let 4 out? Well, we'll wait a while, see if they can offer us anything else. We're doing the same thing. In such systems, let's try to reduce the tax a little bit more, and then maybe someone wants to pay taxes. Well, it would be stupid to pay taxes if you saw the system work like this: Parliament makes a rule, we don't follow it, they'll make it easier for sure, then they'll make it easier. So I don't understand why we're dealing with this, why we're dealing with this, why they blindly believe that this could be anything. So I am enjoying the time here, thank you for the opportunity, but I would very much like to deal with things that affect the majority of Hungarian society. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-283	Thank you very much, too. It was also a pleasure to listen to Congressman and the others. However, I did not see more applicants until I had finished the sentence, but by then Mr Szilágyi had already pressed a two-minute speech button. There are no other applicants. Congressman, please.
u2014-06-19-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was waiting for an answer, say, from the Fidesz side, but it's just Congressman Cherry here alone. Everyone seems to be out of the house now. You know, I didn't get any answers, so I really wanted to get some answers, so that you wouldn't be reduced or reduced now. So do you think that the reduction is 50 million instead of 200 million, and 10 percent instead of 20 percent, is 10 million forints instead of 50 million forints. And we could list whether it's a reduction or not. I didn't get an answer to that. I'm also very interested to know if Fidesz is already in the hands of the government with a technique to block the Internet. 'Cause that's what it takes. This raises great perspectives because we're going to the one-party system and then China and South Korea and North Korea, sorry, not South Korea, I didn't mean to offend them, the football World Championship came in, North Korea and similar methods will be. If there is such a thing, then it is very important to think about whether they can block it, say, the Internet, because then there is a problem. But for everyone to understand, because you said that there might be a lot of people watching this debate, and I'd like to sum up what this is all about. The point is that you want to give severe ten million-dollar discounts to offshore companies with an opaque ownership structure at the moment with this amendment to the law so that these companies can make even more money. That's all there is to it. So let's say nice words, the point is that you want to give discounts to offshore companies, and we don't want that. We do not support this, we want the original set-up to remain the original terms and conditions that we would like these companies to tax at least, if they are already in the Hungarian market, and tax these activities for the benefit of the Hungarian State and the Hungarian people. That is what we want, and that is why we do not support this bill any longer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[20.30]]
u2014-06-19-285	Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, It is therefore concluded that no further comments have been made. That concludes the general debate. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate now. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2014-06-19-286	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few points in summary, and I would like to return with a thought expressed by my colleague from Szilágyi to how serious these opposition contributions should be when questioning the seriousness and merits of this amendment. Because he said that I read that in my comment, I said that a large part of the users of gaming machines went to the online remote gambling game. I didn't say that, Congressman. In my two-minute comment, I also asked him to listen carefully to the comments and then to quote them. I said that part of it went through, part of it, and that's not a significant part of it. There's a huge difference between a part of it and a significant part of it. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] That is why I say that the seriousness of your contribution will be monitored on this basis, both now and later. I'd like to respond to a few things. Unfortunately, there have been very few proposals to which a meaningful response can be made, because most of all, criticisms and doubts have been expressed, which, on the other hand, will be confirmed by the future that we will be right. On the one hand, I would like to say once again, as in my previous speech, that a zero forint of tax revenue, if there is a little more tax revenue, is more than that. So now we have a legislative amendment that is trying to regulate this market in a way that is likely to bring in tax revenue from an area from which we have not yet managed to bring in tax revenue. In the event - and here I would actually like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Tóth, because he was the one who actually made some sort of proposal during his speech - we will consider, if necessary and we see that it is possible, of course, the increase in the rate or the increase in the concession fee, and we will bring it to Parliament. At the moment, the question is whether or not we can obtain tax forints with this amendment. We hope that this will happen. It is therefore possible to increase both the toy tax and the concession fee if the whole process starts. The involvement of offshore companies in the game is almost impossible, since they will look into companies that will be able to operate legally on the Hungarian market. And we continue to agree with what John Lazarus said at the time as Secretary of State that gambling is not a lucky thing, and it would be best to prohibit it, but whether it is not a moral thing, it is not something that should not be banned, it still exists. So this gambling area, the market that benefits from gambling in some way, must be regulated. This particular option, this amendment, is an option for this regulation. I am sure that there is also the possibility that, if companies legally operating on the market are to participate as contributors, that a certain check that would be carried out against circumvention of regulation will also ensure that internet monitoring and online gambling betting are properly monitored and that this cannot be avoided. So I think that tax forints will come into the budget now after the possible adoption of this amendment, these tax forints will be useful for society as a whole, and the doubts expressed here in populist or demagogical ways, my fellow opposition Members, will actually lack any basis, and that will be confirmed in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-19-287	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Tuesday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Today, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda. His address was "Who is responsible for the desiccation of the Szigetköz? " Congressman, you have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's story is about Szigetköz. It's not the first and probably the last time I'm talking about this area. In the absence of time, I would not be able to analyse the entire Bős-Nagymaros myth and the following years, on the one hand, because it has been said many times here in the House and, on the other hand, I think that we should move towards some sort of solution. The fact is that the dozens of settlements directly affected by the Szigetköz, and the everyday life of the two major cities, Győr and Mosonmagyaróvár, are still unsolved, while there are already proven well-functioning techniques and technologies to solve this water supply in such a way that the most fundamental interests are not damaged, whether environmental, agricultural, tourist or any other aspect. The needs of these can be combined, and there are many good examples in the world that would be worth ripping off here, too. If I didn't mention anything else, perhaps the proposal of the Inter-Szigetközi Természetvédelmi Association, which was developed together with a number of disciplines, which could handle this problem with a minimum amount of a few hundred million forints. We estimate that about 70-80 percent would settle this issue, which we call the problem of the Szigetköz. The fact that technical solutions are needed to keep the Szigetköz and the waters of our country in check, we can manage and use it is not decided by us Hungarians. So I think it is a completely barren debate, what has been going on here in Parliament for two decades now, whether we are applying technical solutions in our natural waters or not. I consider it a barren debate, as I have already started in my speech, because we did not decide that. Every other country, every other nation, has done the same on the upper part of the Danube and below. From this point forward, even if there were several arguments that technical solutions should not be used, the issue has been resolved, since all its advantages, whatever the technical solution is, the other countries will enjoy it, and we will only get its disadvantages, and we can now see the serious, serious consequences of this in practice. The fact that, in the past four years, Parliamentary Secretary Elijah has been able to prevent the exploitation of our waters in one person may seem to reverse this harmful process by not being able to welcome him again in the government as State Secretary. For me, it's a great relief, and I'm not gonna tell you a secret. However, this does not guarantee, of course, that there will be a move forward, since we have not yet seen any indication of this. Jobbik will continue to try to make valuable and appropriate use of our country's water resources and the flow of water, as I have already said, according to the needs of as many specialities as possible and of most citizens. It would be good to settle the issue of Szigetköz, because at present this area is far below what it would normally carry as a value and which would be exploitable from a tourist point of view. Szigetköz at an independent tourist destination, I think it would be more appropriate if this problem were resolved. It is also important to know who is responsible for this cause, because I believe that we cannot go without saying that for two decades there has been only the promise of politics here, and that it does not matter whether there were governments in power claiming to be left-wing or right-wing ones in Hungary, everyone has just smeared this issue. I would like to point out that the previous four years have a special responsibility, since there were two thirds of the government, which I think is a serious political mandate. [[20.40]] In addition, they passed the question in a sarcastic and pompous way, which was best illustrated by the words of Secretary Elijah: when I or any of my fellow Members in this House raised this problem at any time, they could only say, in response to themselves, that " there is water'is the opposite of " no water. ' To this day, he couldn't explain this sentence, and we don't really understand what he meant by that. I mean, we know there's no water, but that's why we should do something about water. And the other, with which I think that he has offended many of us, and most of all Győr-Moson-Sopron county citizens, was when he came to the former Festival worrying about some cicadas, where the local newspaper asked why he hated inter island people, and why he didn't want to solve this problem, then he simply said that Hortobágy has no water, yet there is a tourist, so let the islanders solve this problem. It would be good for the new government to put an end to this, with sarcastic and disdainful proposals for solutions, and we would finally move towards a real solution. That's what I encourage the new government to do. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-19-289	Thank you very much. Since the representative of the government is not present, I do not ask whether he wishes to respond. Sándor Szabó, Member, MSZP, spoke after the agenda address: " Country hosts during the holiday week. " You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think, even if this topic is not as important, the holiday week as online gambling, but at least in this House, it is appropriate to translate a few words for this series of events. Although it is still taking place in our Szeged institutions and the holiday book week series is still going on in the days, we all know that the 85th week of books and the 13th children's book series ended between 12 and 16 June, and it was successfully completed in Budapest and many other locations in the country. In 1927 the original proposal of Géza Supka, the publisher of the festive book week, at the General Assembly of the National Association of Hungarian Publishers and Book Publishers in Lillafüred, was to find the mayors of settlements larger than ten thousand inhabitants in order to organize events in the public square of their settlement or city, in cooperation with bookmakers, book sellers, book art workers, which promote the sale of books and various programmes that promote the care of Hungarian literature. It is a pleasure that after a quarter of a century, the book week was reopened last year. This year, my represented city became the site of the opening of the country book week. Last year, Székesfehérvár, the city of Szeged hosted this event series. It has been an honor for us, and I believe that this is a worthy location, however, considering the previous location. I say this because not only national and world-famous scientists have left this town, but also excellent, world-famous poets, writers and literary translators. The city of poets and writers is Szeged, like András Dugonics, who is the writer of the first Hungarian novel, but I could say Éva Janikovszky, who is known for his kind and true writings, but we could talk about Gyula Juhász, the poet, who wrote a number of wonderful poems about Szeged, Szeged. But there were people here who weren't born in Szeged, but we still consider their work to be absolutely ours. I am thinking of Attila József, the tragic poet Miklós Radnóti, who lived in Szeged between 1930 and 1934, but I could also mention Ference Móra, who was connected to the city, the library, the museum, but also István Tömörkény worked here. In our city and in more and more places in the country, it has been a tradition for many years now that, on the occasion of the week of books, publishers, cultural institutions and the local government have joined together to provide visitors to the events of the week of books with the highest quality, the most meaningful programmes. That's how it was this year. For the seventh year, the Somogyi Library has been coordinating this series of events, and I can only thank you for the work you have done in the past week. I say this because, on the occasion of the 85th Holiday Book Week in Szeged, there were 180 events waiting for the audience at some twenty locations for the authors, publishers and distributors of books. But in addition to the presentation of Szeged writers and poets, we also invited national well-known and recognized creators to the square this year. The guest of the book week was Géza Bereményi, a Kossuth and Béla Balázs Prize winner, but we hosted Pál Závada Kossuth Prize winner, Krisztián Grecsó, Orsolya Karafiath, and more. It was also an honor for us to welcome László Végel Kossuth Prize-winning novelist and playwright from Vojvodina to our present opening, because at Szeged's book week literature, publishing, culture and traditional care were always prominently present. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the organizers of the book week have managed to achieve that Hungarian literature, quality Hungarian publishing, is regularly celebrated in more than 80 rural settlements at the same time as the events in Budapest in early June. Allow me to thank both the main organisers and the cities that participated in this series of celebrations from this place. I call on my fellow Members to urge as many as possible in the future to organise the holiday week in their constituency and their place of residence, because the care of literature, the love of history, culture, I think it must remain important for all of us. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-06-19-291	Thank you very much. After the agenda, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, called "Dreams 23 years ago. " You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to thank my fellow Members, who are still here at this late hour. Allow me to remember my great-grandfather because today is the anniversary of the last Russian soldier leaving the country. It is a great honor to speak of my great-grandfather within these walls. He was born in 1900, lived two world wars, a '56, was on the list of kulacs, he was raped, and he never lived through the change of regime, '89. But as an 18-year-old young man, I waited for the time when everything my great-grandfather told me about what another world could be like would happen with a lot of dreams and ideas. During that period, we were left with an incredible wealth of value. There were the border areas, which were completely untouched, military areas that were untouched. For the last 23 years, we've spent most of these resources, fed them, destroyed them, and I'm very, very sad about it. We used to have fun, I remember, we took groups as young birdmen; a Dutch group arrived, they pushed each other out of the bus to photograph a blue cornflower patch field, because there was nothing like that in the Netherlands at that time, and we beat our breasts about how rich our country was, how rich we could boast, and we were proud that we would learn from capitalism's mistakes, and we would not make the mistakes made by the developed West. Now, 23 years later, I see that we, too, have made every mistake that we could and have lived up to our resources. We used to bang on the M7, we used to have fun about how the M7 car was bouncing, we went to the Balchi, and it was nice to go to different teachers' resorts and stuff with my parents. But now we're not going to Balcsi, and 23 years later, fewer and fewer children can go to a pioneer camp or take them to camp in the summer. I went to Bucharest at a conference in the early nineties, and I was shocked to see when the train passed the outskirts of Bucharest, what barefoot little gypsy children were running around begging, and in the meantime we understood in 23 years that if I went to Borsod, I would see much of the same thing, and part of Hungary sank into the same situation, which was unimaginable at the time. There were many, many dreams and hopes back then. At that time, civil society organisations started to take off, in the early 1990s, they started to develop, they all believed in democracy, they believed that a democratic system could be built in Hungary that would allow room for the strengthening of the third sector through the exercise of direct democracy. Now we hear civil society organisations mostly when one of the ministers is sending Kehi to them, or we're trying to make them impossible with support systems. I am not generally famous for my liberal views, but in the early 1990s, Ágnes Geréb would have been helped in a program to create the first Hungarian birthplace. [[20.50]] He had the draft budget to start this, and the woman who had been abused so many times had been dragged so many times, at that time he could hope to see if the midwife's practice in Hungary would start, which has not started since then, and is becoming more and more difficult, being persecuted, and, let alone, that it could not have happened, and that in many places in Western Europe, it was in a worse situation. At the time, privatisation seemed like an extraordinary opportunity, and they said that the economy would develop. At the same time, we have seen that the people who worked together in the factories, the owners put a lock on those who guard what, live on it, the remnants of the communist regime, somehow these powers became economic powers, and a significant part of society who had worked and lived until then, saw that the morale in the country was starting to prevail, that somehow, by some means, we have to put our hands on resources, and we have to cope with it. At that time, when the countryside was in a bad situation, even thousands of sheep grazed the tourkeve lawns at the beginning of the nineties, and no matter how low-skilled people worked in livestock farming, we didn't think that within five to six years, the 10,000 sheep would turn into a thousand, then a few hundred, and the grazing livestock would disappear, our lawns would be ruined, which had been grazed for hundreds of years, and all this would collapse. There was a "Sure Start " program, which is probably over by now. There was a plan; we used to smile at the plans of the iron and steel country of communism, but at the same time the country of iron and steel gave people jobs, and then they destroyed all the plants and jobs. So I wanted to remember what our hopes were 23 years ago, when I was 18, how I saw the hopes that this country is facing, and I am very, very disappointed to see the direction in which the country has come, how our democracy has evolved, and the party who said at that time never to be majority power again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] How he's using it now. That's what I wanted to remember. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-293	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik, asked to speak after today's agenda: " When will the government finally solve the problems surrounding student work? " with the title " Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-19-294	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, During these weeks, summer student work begins, when tens of thousands of young people undertake such work. The high season of student work involving nearly 200,000 young people a year is summer. Unfortunately, most of the young people do not work to gain experience, but to earn a little money from which they can go on vacation, or worse, so that they can finance their studies. The social and existential situation of young people is getting worse, as evidenced by a number of analyses and increasing emigration. However, in addition to being a good opportunity for young people to get extra money and work experience, student work also has a low profile. In my speech, I would like to draw attention to this and encourage the government to take action. Unfortunately, there are many negative examples to illustrate maladministration. Without the need for completeness, I would mention one or two types of problems: humiliating working conditions, non-compliance by employers with the Code of Work, long delays in paying young people, or even less than they would be entitled to, do not get the necessary rest periods, and the problems could still be classified. Abuse of student work has been known for a long time, but unfortunately, no substantive action has been taken in the last four years. What makes the situation worse is that this is not an accidental omission on Fidesz's part, but has done absolutely consciously nothing. On 21 May 2012, when I asked the government about this issue in Parliament, the Secretary of State, Zoltán Cséfalvay, replied that the existing legal and control conditions guarantee that there will be no abuse. Now, in reality, there are thousands of these abuses, so maybe we should have dealt with these problems after all. These abuses have been brought to the attention of Jobbik's youth department in the press many times, and I myself in Parliament as well. In fact, two years ago, we launched a campaign called "I am a student, not a slave. " In this context, we have created a free complaint report, which can be found on the Jobbikit.hu/studentwork complaint page. Sadly, in many cases, youths do not know where to turn if they experience abuse or fear the consequences. On this page, however, after completing a simple form, we will process the notifications and report to the competent office on behalf of a Member of Parliament, so they must act. As a result, complaints were investigated in all cases and in several cases the employer was condemned. Reducing abuse of student work is an important task, so we have made a number of proposals in this regard before, such as increased controls and prevention. With regard to the latter, it should be in particular within the framework of education that young people know what their rights and obligations are for student workers and how they can be helped in cases of abuse. However, the prevention and elimination of abuse is only part of the steps on student work. The state should help and expand access to student work so that as many young people as possible can gain work experience and income. In particular, it is of the utmost importance to support access to specialised student work in order to provide students with the best possible knowledge and experience of their studies in the course of their work. In addition, it would also be necessary to settle the situation of passive students. In order to employ students in full-time but passive semesters as part of a student's work, the legal regulations set different conditions and contradict each other. While employment of such passive half-year students can clearly be regarded as student employment under labour law, according to the social security contributions and social contribution tax law, the conditions for those in the passive half-term do not apply to student work. In other words, because of legislative contradictions, employers are not entitled to benefits for otherwise student workers. We have already tabled an amendment to the law that would have settled this situation, and it would have enabled passive students to work on equal terms, but this was swept off the table by the government. In view of all this, I would like to encourage the Government to help access to student work, to take steps to ensure adequate legal protection, to carry out extensive and rigorous checks for employers and school associations. Be integrated into the educational curriculum to ensure that student workers are aware of their rights and of the possibilities to complain. Finally, I ask the government to finally settle the situation of the passive students and to allow them to do the student work. I trust that, in heeding our proposals, the government will finally do something for the student workers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2014-06-19-295	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that the representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. You can expect an answer from the Ministry of National Economy. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as said at the House Committee meeting this morning, the next session of the extraordinary summer session will take place on 23 June, so next Monday. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed, and I wish you all well, bye-bye. [[The meeting ended at 8:58 p.m.]]
