u2014-11-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 15th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mrs Loránt Hegedűs and notary István Tiba will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Allow me to pay tribute to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who is a participant in the budget debate starting today. Dear House, A general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the submission of the State Audit Office's opinion will be launched. The bill is T/1794. and the opinion of the State Audit Office T/1794/11. He could have been held accountable. I would like to inform you that during the hearing of the bill, the Committee on Budgets shall act as a legislative committee. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that on Monday, the Parliament decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today, as well as the main rules of the debate.
u2014-11-19-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 10 hours timeframe is divided into 207 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 93 minutes for the KDNP Group, 115 minutes for the MSZP Group, 103 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 62 minutes for the LMP Group and 20 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 30-30 minutes lead speakers. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day. I would like to remind you that on Monday, the chair of the meeting informed the Parliament that at the House Committee meeting the factions took note that, in order to ensure a proportionate use of the time frame, the chair of the meeting could deviate from the usual order of speech. It was also accepted that technical time, speeches by MEPs and speeches by ethnic advocates could lead to changes in the use of television broadcasting time. I would like to inform you that MEPs with a parliamentary background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak out against the time frame of the factions. MEPs without a parliamentary background and directly-registered MEPs may use a proportionate proportion of the time frame of the independent representative. Dear Parliament, Today, in the general debate, the opening speech of the National Audit Office will take place in a total of 40 minutes, in a 30-minute time frame, the speech of the President of the Board of Budgets will be held in a 30-minute time frame, the main speeches of the political groups will also take place in 30-30 minutes, and further speeches will be possible to the extent of the time frame of each faction. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment to the budget law is subject to the House Rule 29. Proposals may be made using a form ordered pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2. This is available on the IT network. The television broadcast today is expected to last from 9 a.m. to 17 a.m.
u2014-11-19-2	Dear House, I now give the floor to Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga in a 40-minute time frame.
u2014-11-19-3	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's budget for the government is not only a description of public expenditure and revenue, but also a summary of our efforts to achieve in the near future. It reflects the important values that govern our economic and social policies. The draft law on the 2015 central budget clearly shows that the most important aspects that define our work have not changed. As always from the beginning, the focus is on creating jobs, strengthening families and unsociable goals for economic recovery. The bill also shows that the major structural changes that we have made in recent years have been achieved. The regulation of the labour market, pension systems, tax systems, education and public administration has changed to mention only the most important ones. With years of government work, we managed to achieve financial and budgetary stability, keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent and achieve a reduction in public debt. Our economic growth is extremely high in Europe, and in the second quarter of this year it was the largest among the 28 EU Member States, now in the third quarter it is 3.2 percent. We're still on the beat with that. These results will allow us to spend more on supporting families and childbearing, job creation, education, public security, support for farmers, preservation of the value of pensions and, not least, economic development. [[9.10]] Our three main objectives are to strengthen families, create jobs and promote economic growth. Support for families and people means that the cost of living is further reduced, while families can spend more. This is achieved by preserving the real value of wages and pensions, increasing the number of jobs, increasing the benefits available, increasing real wages due to low inflation and, not least, accounting for banks. We must preserve the very positive momentum of economic growth achieved in 2014 also next year. Therefore, we will continue to maintain the tax and regulatory environment for business support, investment and export support. So next year, businesses can expect even more support. They are also assisted by the government's tax policy. It is well known that from 2011 we reduced corporate tax from 19 percent to 10 percent up to HUF 500 million tax base. Our goal is to make this tax one-key in this cycle. Economic growth is also served by the launch of one of the biggest economic recovery programmes of all time in Hungary next year using EU funds. In the next seven years, together with the Hungarian co-financing, a total of HUF 12 000 billion of EU funds will arrive in Hungary. 60% of development and investment aid will be devoted to economic development and job creation. This commitment is already reflected in the 2015 budget, which is what my fellow Members will find in the material presented. Dear Parliament, When drawing up the 2015 budget, the macroeconomic data available to us, the impact of measures under government objectives and the expected internal and external economic processes of next year were taken into account as a starting point. On this basis, I can tell you that economic growth in 2014 will continue next year. Since we have to take account of the development of external demand, we will remain cautious this year, as we did last year. Let me just say, according to the latest figures, the euro zone? It's our most important export market, isn't it? further stagnation of around zero percent and the impact of the situation of the Ukrainian and Russian economies on the Hungarian economy. I would like to remind you that in 2014 we had an increase of 2 percent, and I also said that this attention is needed in order to meet the deficit target safely and to maintain the balance of the budget. In terms of figures, this means that despite the very high increase of 3.2 per cent expected this year, we expect a 2.5 per cent economic growth by 2015, a 2.4 per cent deficit according to the EU methodology and a 75.4 per cent government debt-to-GDP ratio at the end of the year under the Stability Act. The government remains committed to keeping the budget deficit below 3 per cent and ensuring a permanent downward path to public debt. These targets will therefore not be changed by 2015. A positive trend remains in the labour market in parallel with the continuing economic recovery. The number of people who are economically active and those who work is rising again next year after this year. According to our calculations, more than 260,000 will be working than before the crisis. In line with this, the unemployment rate is expected to decrease to below 8 per cent. These positive processes are due to the expected increase in labour demand of the competitive sector and of manufacturing industry in the future. The government's incentives for employment, including the reduction of labour taxes, the job protection action and public employment programmes, support this positive trend. The structure of the Hungarian economy will be increasingly balanced in the coming period. In addition to net exports, domestic demand is also increasing as household consumption is also increasing significantly. In this material, we expect a 2.6 percent increase. The continuing wage increase of teachers, the career model of armed and law enforcement workers in 2015, the reduction of the burden of foreign exchange loans and the better prospects for the labour market play a major role in this. These measures will also contribute to the rise in real incomes, which will result in household consumption, as I mentioned earlier, increasing by more than 2 percent and 2.6 percent next year. In addition to the recovery of consumption, the growth of the Hungarian economy is supported by a further increase in investment activity. This year's outstanding performance is expected to increase gross fixed capital investments by more than 4 per cent by 2015. In particular, it is positive that investments that are already visible and launched and new capacity building will mainly increase the performance of the production sectors. In view of this, we are also expecting a dynamic increase in exports next year. [[9.20]] Economic growth is also supported by a low inflation environment. In 2014, inflation declined to record low levels, mainly as a result of government measures. You can see, my fellow Members, that in recent months there has been virtually no financial deterioration in Hungary; we are recalling the periods that were last in Hungary in the late sixties in terms of economic policy. In 2015, the rate of rising domestic demand is higher than this year, but remains at a moderate rate of 1.8 percent. In conclusion, in our 2015 macroeconomic projections, we expect growth to remain sustainable and stable for the future. In the forecast of the macro-economic path, we have taken into account the expected risks and, as I have already said, we have decided on conservative conservative calculations. Dear Parliament, I summarize the draft legislation in a set of key objectives of the government: a stable financial background, a predictable future. Next year's budget will create the conditions for fulfilling our commitments, which will bring about positive changes in the daily lives of people and businesses. Accordingly, the family is the first in 2015. The government's main goal is to keep as much money as possible with families, to support childbearing, to help raise children. Therefore, as I said during the negotiation of tax laws, we continue to tax the family tax system, from 2016 we gradually double the benefit of parents who have two children, maintain the child benefit and support the first marriages with a tax discount. In 2015, around HUF 240 billion can be left with families on these items. Our aim remains unchanged to get people out of the debt trap, so we will continue to give priority to the issue of foreign exchange lenders. Accounting banks reduces payments, thus improving the financial situation of families. According to our estimates, due to the accountability, the Hungarian families will be reimbursed HUF 1100 billion, the instalments will be reduced by 25-30 percent, and some one-fifth of the debt capital will be reduced on average. We have submitted it, and if you accept it, support it, the Fair Bank Act will also be in place, and from mid-January until the end of the year, the settlement of foreign currency loans will take place. This will further reduce the retail burden. Accordingly, the 2015 budget is also the bank accounting budget. In 2015, we will maintain the reduction of the rent. The reduced prices will be in place by the end of next year, and the income available to families will increase by about HUF 30 billion. In order to improve the labour market situation of parents with small children, the employer's social contribution tax allowance under the employment protection action will also be increased. This discount will also be available for part-time employees up to a gross amount of HUF 100 thousand. From 1 July 2015, the Government will introduce new housing support, which can be used not only for the purchase, construction, but also for the purchase of second-hand housing and the expansion of existing housing. In the future, families raising or having a single child will also be entitled to support; this has not been part of this regulation so far. The amount of aid will depend on the number of children, the size of the apartment and its energy classification, ranging from HUF 500 thousand to HUF 3 million 250 thousand. Measures to estimate public service workers will continue in 2015. The armed and police career model is launched, with a budget of HUF 44 billion in 2015. The salary increase of teachers will continue next year. After the average increase of 30 per cent last year, the wages of workers in the sector will increase substantially every year until 2017, as you know, my fellow Members, this year will increase the wages of teachers by another 10 per cent, and next year accordingly by 10 per cent. For the fourth year now, there have been several increases in wages for health care workers, including nurses, doctors, specialists, residents, general practitioners, nurses and dentists. Here, I would remind you that the budget covers the possibility of providing additional support to general practitioners in 2015, and this will be the case in 2016, so next year we will provide HUF 10 billion and then HUF 10 billion more in 2016 to these employees in the sector. As shown in the 2015 budget, the government will step by step develop career models that will make the future predictable and predictable for them in the world of work and in the private life. We are aware that we cannot yet be satisfied with the general well-being and financial security, but the government is trying to address the social problems it inherited from its predecessors, taking into account the possibilities. The government also pays particular attention to improving the situation of pensioners. As promised and promised, pensions will continue to increase with inflation levels, thus preserving their real value. The burden of older people is also mitigated by the reduction of costs, the results of which the government intends to maintain by launching the national utility service system. In accordance with the principle of "work" instead of "aid," we want everyone in Hungary to have a job who can and wants to work and do not need income support. Therefore, the 2015 priority is the continuation and gradual extension of the Start Work Programme. In addition to the average 200,000 public workers per year so far, tens of thousands more can participate in this programme from the second half of 2015. This year the budget will provide HUF 35 billion more than this year, HUF 270 billion next year. Government programmes to stimulate employment continue, including the action to protect jobs. What is new, however, is that in the framework of the job protection action, there will be full tax relief after part-time employment of parents with small children in the next year. By strengthening training and vocational training, we want to bring as many people back to work as possible. Employment growth is also a reduction in expenditure, as the state spends less on aid and income support. So I would like to refer here to the fact that our fellow Members who suggest that we spend less on social aid are indeed saying that we want to spend less on it, because we want to give more back to people in income; that is what public employment, the public work programme, is for this purpose. Dear Parliament, In 2015, the largest economic development of all time will start, with the central budget spending more than HUF 2500 billion on programmes and investments from EU funds, and 7.5 percent of gross domestic product next year. This amount is nearly 350 billion HUF, 16 percent higher than it was in 2014. While the last decisive year for the 2007-2013 programmes is coming, payments for the new programmes for the 2014-2020 period will actually start. With the 2014-2020 development cycle, a new era will begin in domestic development policy. In seven years, more than €34 billion of funding will arrive in Hungary. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, represents a HUF 12 000 billion development in the coming years. The per capita aid was never as large in Hungary as it was in the 2014-2020 cycle. With this indicator, we are in second place among the EU Member States. So Hungary has also achieved a good position within the European Union with regard to the acquisition of resources and the size of resources in this respect. [[9.30]] The government is prepared to use development resources in our country in a targeted and simpler way. We have also decided to spend 60% of our resources on economic development to increase employment and competitiveness. I'm just pointing out that this was 16 percent in the previous seven-year period, which is now 60 percent. It is also important that applicants can expect more transparent, simpler and rational tender procedures than before. The first full seven-year programming period following Hungary's accession to the EU was completed in 2013, but the commitment framework appropriations should be paid by the end of 2015. The government's aim is to make full use of these EU funds, and the amount of public finance co-financing required for this is also guaranteed in the budget in 2015. In the next year's budget, speeding up payments is also visible. In addition to the programmes currently under way, the resources of the current start-ups are also an opportunity to support the new objectives. The grants are mainly aimed at boosting health, education, environmental and transport infrastructure, agriculture, forestry, improving rural competitiveness and job creation. In addition to the items appearing in the central budget, we continue to receive direct agricultural support for nearly HUF 390 billion. Their accounting and use are not included in the budget. This is because, in the majority of these grants, there is no national co-financing obligation. Looking at Hungary's net position, we can continue to say that Hungary is a clear beneficiary of EU membership. Our deposit obligation is HUF 296 billion, which is only 17 percent of the EU's revenue in the budget of HUF 1720 billion, so Hungary is definitely a winner of EU funds, EU membership. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the estimate of the National Defence Fund will continue to be HUF 60 billion in the future, which will help to avoid unforeseen risks. There is a legal guarantee that this reserve can only be used if it does not jeopardise the maintenance of the deficit target. In addition, a reserve of HUF 100 billion in the budget will be used to implement extraordinary government measures. So next year, there's a cover if there's any kind of risk, flood, natural disaster, or anything else that we can't anticipate. The government reviewed the overdue debt of budgetary bodies in the sectors most affected. In view of this, the 2015 budget bill provides a reserve of HUF 60 billion to deal with the financial problems and debt-related management difficulties of central budgetary bodies, in particular the institutions providing health services. The government considers it necessary to cut further red tape, which is equally in the interest of the public and economic operators. This is essential to further improve the country's economic competitiveness. The government's requested State Reform Commission will propose the process of cutting red tape. In addition, in the budget, we will continue to prioritise the implementation of investments that will increase national wealth in 2015. To this end, the investment fund system will be maintained, which aims to ensure that revenues from the exploitation and sale of public assets are used to cover expenditure resulting in the expansion of public assets. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Next, allow me to say a few words about the management situation of central budgetary bodies and local authorities. With regard to the functioning of the public sector, the first and most important thing is that we need to reduce red tape, administrative deadlines as well as the budget. Therefore, in this area, the government has set itself the goal of improving efficiency and saving. Our main ambition in this area is to operate an institutional system that is more efficient and efficient than ever before in the public sector. Overall, the budget chapters can count on HUF 2907.2 billion in 2015 and HUF 7018.6 billion in expenditure. The central funding of local authorities is also linked to the tasks to be performed in 2015. Following the settlement of local government debt and the establishment of a new structure, the greatest attention in this area should also be given to families and children. From 2015 onwards, there will be a marked increase in resources for childcare facilities, providing substantial support for preschool maintenance authorities, a significant surplus for the provision of child catering and the maintenance of temporary accommodation facilities for children. We will also improve the funding of crèches. In particular, we support investment in kindergarten building and preschool capacity expansion, with a central budget of HUF 2.5 billion. As my fellow Members know, the use of kindergarten care will be mandatory from September 2015. This means that the country, the government, must be able to provide additional resources to municipalities that are not yet able to provide this fully to those living in its territory. We would therefore like to ensure that kindergarten care is available to all. We would also like to make sure that no children in Hungary starve, so that spending on children's meals will increase significantly by more than 10 percent according to the draft. In addition, there will be 20 percent higher resources available to improve infrastructure conditions. We will continue to help to catch up on small settlements and increase the quality of public tasks performed by local authorities. Experience in recent years has shown that, in the interests of equal opportunities, the central budget must enforce the principle of solidarity even more strongly. Accordingly, it is an important change in 2015 to provide additional funding for municipalities with low economic potential, such as low local tax revenues. At the same time, settlements with a significant business tax continue to be burdened with an increasing number of offsets. Local governments can farm from around 2500 billion forints in 2015, of which the central budget provides more than 690 billion forints. In addition, the municipalities are entitled to 40% of the vehicle tax. Thanks to the debt take-over, this will be the first year when the municipalities start a clean slate and do not have to spend it to repay the debts. It is recalled that we have taken over HUF 1300 billion in debt from the settlements, so there is no settlement in Hungary with debt on 1 January 2015. We hope that the municipalities will also take advantage of this opportunity in terms of economic development. Dear House, The management of the Pension and Health Insurance Fund, the two financial bases of social security, is an integral part of the 2015 budget. Even in 2015, the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund was balanced with revenue and expenditure. Two key appropriations for revenue are social contribution tax and pension contributions. In 2015, the social contribution tax, commonly known as the socho, will remain 27 percent, but the division will vary between the two financial bases of social security. The share of the Pension Insurance Fund will be reduced from 96.3 percent this year to 85.9 percent next year, so the share of the Health Insurance Fund will increase accordingly. [[9.40]] The change is explained by the fact that this lower rate is sufficient to cover the expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund. Pension contributions remain at 10 percent. The Fund's revenue will fully cover the expenditure foreseen in 2015. In terms of the Fund's expenditure, pension benefits are the most important item. The January 1.8 percent increase is the same as the consumer price index planned for 2015. Accordingly, as I referred to earlier, retirement benefits will continue to maintain their real value next year. In the 2015 budget of the Health Insurance Fund, as in previous years, we have calculated a balance between revenue and expenditure. The majority of the Fund's revenue, almost 64 percent of the contributions and contributions, are made in a smaller proportion and 30 percent of the budget contributions in the following year. As a result of the change in the share of the social contribution tax, the Health Insurance Fund receives a higher proportion of this revenue than in the previous year, around 14 percent. Another significant group of revenue is budget contributions, the size of which is decreasing compared to last year. The Fund has two key expenditures: the issue of health insurance benefits in cash and in kind. Within the cash benefits, the highest amount is the expenditure on invalidity and rehabilitation benefits. The highest weight of benefits in kind is provided by healing-preventive care. The money available for this purpose increases by HUF 18.5 billion compared to the previous year, mainly to improve the provision of general medical care, and to absorb overcapacity and save? including air rescue and premature rescue? improving its financing situation. In addition, next year there is also a provision of HUF 10 billion in curative-preventive care. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the preparation of the 2015 draft budget law, an effective working relationship, based on mutual cooperation, was established between the Fiscal Council, the State Audit Office and the Government. The Council considered the draft bill credible and enforceable. It stressed that the deficit target of 2.4 per cent in 2015 calculated according to the European Union methodology is in line with the economic processes presented in the draft law and the revenue and expenditure appropriations based on it. At the same time, the Budgetary Council drew attention to the risks to each revenue and expenditure item and proposed an increase in the available reserve amount and reserve framework. The government in the submitted bill, adopting the opinion of the Council, increased the estimate of the National Defence Fund. In addition to the Fiscal Council, the State Audit Office also assessed the bill submitted by the Government. The Court of Auditors has made a number of positive statements on the draft budget law and has raised objections in only a few points. Did the State Audit Office report state the bill? Is that what I'm saying? its composition, structure and content comply with the requirements laid down in the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act, as well as the requirements of the sovereign debt rule and the general government law. Thank you for the valuable work that the Fiscal Council and the State Audit Office have done in assessing the proposal, thank you, Presidents, and thank you for your cooperation with my colleagues. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that your The legislative proposal not only sets out the economic policy framework for the following year, but also contributes to improving Hungary's long-term economic chance, increasing our international competitiveness and increasing people's well-being. I am sure that the budget submitted to Parliament will underpin the achievement of our objectives by continuing the responsible management so far. In addition, it expects the risks to a sufficient extent and therefore represents the security that Hungary needs. I know that, in the coming days, there will be a number of questions and considerations in the debate that we need to consider. At the same time, I believe that there is agreement between Parliament and the Government on the main objectives, improving the situation of families, supporting economic growth, creating jobs and preserving financial stability. This will allow consensus and consensus to be reached in the specific legislation. I therefore ask you to discuss and accept the bill on the 2015 budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-4	I thank you, Minister, for your speech. I now give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, in a 30-minute timeframe.
u2014-11-19-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, The State Audit Office has fulfilled its statutory obligation to draw up its opinion on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015. First of all, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that we are presenting an opinion, not a report by the Court of Auditors. We intend to use our opinion as a sort of line leader for the government and for you in your debate, and finally for the voting Members of Parliament. This means that the State Audit Office supports the opening of the parliamentary debate in its opinion published last week. In this connection, I think it is important to point out that the State Audit Office has expressed a particular state of budgetary planning in the opinion before you, since the budget approval process will be completed in December. The aim of the audit is precisely that the SAO should contribute to the adoption by the Parliament of a sound budget for the final vote in December, which is capable of addressing the real risks by drawing up yet missing laws or adopting amendments. It is also important to state that the budget opinion of the State Audit Office is not a macroeconomic analysis. The macroeconomic path outlined by the government has not been recognised as a potential for economic growth, inflation or other indicators for economic development. We also do not give an opinion on the economic and social priorities reflected in the bill, which is also not our task. Dear Parliament, The State Audit Office audited 82.7 percent of the expenditure and 88.9 percent of the revenue of the 2015 central budget bill. We have established that the bill complies with the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act, the sovereign debt rule and the general government law, and also provides for reserves. We have been convinced that the proposed amendments to the design methods, background calculations, impact assessments and the state conditionality and regulators have generally established the bill. The requirements of the prospectus have been met. Further information and parameters provided by the Ministry of National Economy at the same time as the framework numbers have been taken into account. There was consistency between the bill and the plans that form part of the government programmes. Expenditure appropriations shall be sufficient to carry out public tasks with the risks indicated. The financial and economic impact of EU membership has been taken into account in the planning process. In order to ensure the continued liquidity of the treasury single account, the financing ideas for next year are numerically worked out and supported. According to the draft, the government debt ratio will fall from 76,3 percent in 2014 to 75,4 percent next year. Thus, the obligation to reduce the public debt-to-GDP ratio set out in the Fundamental Law is fulfilled. The sovereign debt rule can also be fulfilled if the amount of GDP set out in the budget bill is as planned and the government debt is or would be nearly HUF 260 billion higher. According to the EU methodology, called EDP, the deficit-to-GDP deficit target of 2.4 per cent remains 0.6 percentage points below the requirements laid down in EU and domestic legislation, i.e. it contains an implicit reserve of some HUF 200 billion. [[9.50]] Despite this, both indicators, sovereign debt and deficit, pose a risk if macroeconomic developments, such as external conditions, and international economic activity, develop in an unfavorable way. In fact, are they positive processes? for example, lower than planned inflation but taking place? may also make it difficult to keep the deficit target. The delay or failure to receive EU funds may entail additional risks, which may also have a volatility of 100 billion per year. Honourable Members, In drawing up our opinion, we asked whether the bill was well-founded, whether the appropriations in it were justified, whether the revenue could be achieved. We have examined whether the government has carried out the necessary background calculations and whether the appropriate legislation is available or whether they have been prepared to amend them. The SAO also examines the sustainability of the deficit target and compliance with the sovereign debt rule, as well as the management of risks and maintenance practices. The bill has been assessed on the basis of a public methodology for the Court's opinion, which includes aspects of the classification of revenue and expenditure appropriations. The validity of revenue and expenditure appropriations and the availability of revenue appropriations have been assessed on the basis of available documents, on the basis of information, by means of a documentary analysis method. In order to increase the effectiveness of the audit and to reduce the burden on the audited, the methodology for selecting the so-called key appropriations for the audit has been added in view of the revised deadline for the submission of the draft budget bill. On the basis of the addition, the SAO has determined the scope of the audited appropriations on a materiality or risk basis, bearing in mind that the appropriations selected cover the total expenditure and revenue of the budget by more than 80%. The revenue and expenditure appropriation shall be specific if it amounts to 0,5 per cent of the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem and if the SAO has indicated it as risky in one of the previous 3 years. On the basis of the materiality criterion, a definitive appropriation of a top-up appropriation of more than HUF 1 billion is provided if, over the previous 3 years, expenditure is over 10%, and revenues are underperforming by 10 percent. In the course of the qualification, the support and feasibility for revenue, while in the case of expenditure, the justification and the assessment of whether the planned appropriation ensures the performance of the public service mission shall be taken into account. Despite the lack of support, the revenue allocation may be implemented and the planned amount of expenditure allocation shall ensure that the public service mission is carried out. The revenue allocation may be made if it is in line with previous year's trends and expected values. Expenditure shall assess whether the appropriation is supported by calculations and whether it has been developed taking into account the relevant parameters and indicators. The budget bill is well founded if 80% of the amount of classified appropriations is well-founded and the requirement of the sovereign debt rule is met. Thus, the rating categories according to our methodology can be: well-founded, partially well-founded and not well-founded. On the basis of the public methodology, the State Audit Office found 93.38 percent of the expenditure audited to be sound, 6.58 percent to be partially sound and 0.04 percent to be unfounded. 71.9 percent of revenue appropriations are well-founded, 26,9 percent are partially sound and 1.2 percent are not well-founded. Should it be pointed out, in terms of the merits of tax revenues, that there is no justified tax revenue allocation? Like last year? is no longer included in the adopted bill. In view of the remaining risks, 51,3 per cent of the budget revenue under consideration was well-founded and 48,7 per cent partially justified. This included taxes such as specific taxes on small businesses, small corporate tax, VAT, telecommunications tax, tolls proportional to the journey taken. The partly substantiated ratings indicated in our opinion are mainly linked to the fact that at the time of the submission of the bill, even at that time, the legislation on which the budget was based was not fully available, which obviously may have changed in the last few days. Honourable Members, 57,6 percent of the planned total expenditure for the 2015 central budget? 9946.3 billion forints? External personnel and other management expenditure in support of the "Employment' policy area The design of appropriations from above in 2015 does not always meet the criteria set out in the prospectus, in two cases the planned appropriations remain below the expected 2014 performance. However, the risk is mitigated by the fact that 36.2 percent of the appropriations opened from top in 2015 are linked to the Pension Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund, which are unlikely to be overachieved on the basis of the expected data for 2014. Based on previous year's experience, the above-open appropriations did not significantly exceed the initial appropriations. Specific direct expenditure appropriations for the central budget? include significant appropriations such as ongoing support for businesses, housing subsidies and social policy travel premiums? They're well-founded. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that previous government and parliamentary measures, which reduce structural expenditure, are also saving for the central budget in 2015 as a kind of spillover effect. 86.2 percent of the total HUF 646 billion budget of the National Family and Social Policy Fund has been audited. This fund also finances benefits below the age limit. They are planned to amount to HUF 134.4 billion in 2015, which is 23.5 percent below the 2014 planned value. The reduction in the appropriations for underage benefits compared to 2014 is justified by a significant reduction in the number of right holders, given that the effects of the law on early retirement pensions, early age benefits and service obligations adopted in 2011 will result in significant budget savings in 2015. Does the planned appropriations for 2015 of the debt service revenue and expenditure chapter fully include expected expenditure? 1196 billion forints? and the proceeds, which is HUF 82,6 billion. Expenditure appropriations for this chapter shall be supported by detailed calculations, with the exception of transaction fees. Interest income can be achieved, taking into account macroeconomic forecasts. The amount of the planned transaction fee is partially justified, its risk cannot be quantified as it has not been based on calculations, it has been projected and projected on the basis of the base data taking into account the financing plan. Further appropriations for expenditure and revenue in this chapter are supported; the amount of expenditure is sufficient for the provision of public tasks, the revenue can be achieved, so that the appropriations are well-founded and not risky. The planned amount of revenue related to state assets is HUF 237.1 billion, and the revenue appropriations we control in 2015 amount to HUF 216.8 billion. Of these, 21,6 percent were found to be well-founded, 78.4 percent not well-founded and not feasible. Other evaluation and recovery revenues do not support the amount of HUF 169 billion planned for 2015 and the items from the revenue are not supported by a documented methodology, calculation, impact assessment, and therefore the appropriation is not justified and risky. [[10.00]] However, this does not pose a real risk to the lack of implementation of the central budget, provided that the planned rule applies that the commitment of expenditure cannot be made to this amount until the revenue is realised. During the planning work, the chapters reviewed their next year's tasks in order to assess their resource and staff needs and calculate their underlying revenues on a realistic basis. The chapters provided for their organisations to have a cost-effective, realistic planning and drew attention to capacity, to consider more stringent, rational, efficient internal reorganisations with resources. Budget bodies and professionally managed appropriations with no expenditure from EU programmes planned for 2015 for HUF 4469.2 billion exceed the previous year by 18.4 percent, representing 38 percent of the expenditure of the central subsystem. The HUF 1721.1 billion of the 2015 chapter revenue represents only 1 percent increase compared to the previous year, giving 10.8% of the budget revenue. For chapter expenditure, 87,4 per cent of the audited appropriations in the chapters were well-founded, 12.5 per cent partially well-founded and 0,1 per cent unfounded. In revenue, 83.5 percent of the appropriations in the chapters were well-founded, while the proportion of partially justified was 16.5 percent. Expenditure and revenue foreseen in the 2015 budget for budgetary bodies and for appropriations managed by the chapter can be achieved through a cost-effective, disciplined budget management. The planning of the national strategic reference framework programmes financed during the EU programming period 2007-2013 will mean the planning of the remaining payments, i.e. the remaining revenues, given that payments under the programmes will be made by 31 December 2015. By 2015, the bill envisaged HUF 1838.1 billion in expenditure, with HUF 1262 billion in EU funds, revenue estimates and HUF 576.2 billion in Hungarian budget support. The expenditure appropriations of the national strategic reference framework are well-founded, but the availability of expenditure appropriations, i.e. the progress of payments at an appropriate pace, is seen as guaranteed by the SAO, so to speak, not risky if the government continues to implement the strict monitoring system introduced in 2014 during 2015 and continues to do so. In the opinion of the SAO, based on the experience of previous years, the implementation of the revenue allocation is risky despite sound planning, as future audits, so-called audits, are expected to result in the suspension of payments by the European Union Commission or the imposition of sanctions on projects under implementation. The possible suspension of payments cannot be forecasted and may take place during the year. At present, the European Commission has seven programmes submitted and agreed on for the period 2014-20 in the framework of EU assistance. The first proposals were announced with a total value of more than HUF 100 billion, which will be charged to the Hungarian budget until the adoption of the operational programmes. The spending of HUF 345.7 billion from the European Structural and Investment Funds for 2015 and EU revenue appropriations of HUF 288.9 billion are both risky and partially justified, since, with the exception of the regulations that provide an EU background to the legislative environment, domestic legislation defining the provisions for the use of resources and a strategy to document the establishment of appropriations were not available during the audit period. Despite the publication of domestic legislation at the end of the SAO opinion, the European Structural and Investment Funds have a risky and partially sound certification, and this has not changed since the adoption of operational programmes in time by the European Commission is still unknown, without a deadline for the European Commission. The same can be said for the spending of HUF 5.6 billion planned for 2014-20 programmes and HUF 3.9 billion revenue appropriations, which are partly justified and risky, since the adoption of the programmes by the European Commission has not yet taken place and so domestic legislation has not been established. Dear Parliament, The budget for the financial funds of social security for 2015 is HUF 4937.2 billion, which exceeds the 2014 statutory allocation by 1.8 percent. The share of the distribution of the social contribution tax between the Pension Insurance Fund and the Health Insurance Fund has changed and will change next year. The appropriations for the financial funds for social security planned for 2015 can be achieved taking into account the performance data for the base year. The total expenditure and revenue of the Pension Insurance Fund is HUF 3024.6 billion and is 2 percent higher than in 2014. Ninety-nine percent of the income is social contribution tax and pension contributions from insured persons. The revenue of the Pension Insurance Fund is sound and can be achieved on the basis of trends in previous years. In the planning of the Fund's expenditure, including retirement provision, an increase in consumer prices of 1.8 per cent was reported in determining the pension increase, i.e. an increase of 1.8 per cent of pensions can be projected. Expenditure is well-founded and the amount of expenditure planned is sufficient to carry out the public task. The total cost and revenue of the Health Insurance Fund is HUF 1912.6 billion and 1.5 percent higher than the initial allocation in 2014. On the revenue side, a significant change is the increase in the distribution rate of the social contribution tax from 3.7 per cent to 14.9 per cent, resulting in an increase in the HUF 78.1 billion legislative allocation in 2014 by HUF 335.3 billion, while in 2015 budget contributions will be reduced by 37.7 per cent to HUF 575.2 billion. The revenues of the Health Insurance Fund are thus sound and can be achieved on the basis of trends in previous years. Expenditure can also be found to be well-founded. The financing of local authorities in 2015 is in line with the changed local government tasks. The central budget will provide HUF 690.5 billion in support of municipalities by 2015. The appropriations approved by the 2014 Budget Act were HUF 703.6 billion, and the changes in the planned appropriations are supported by documented calculations and are therefore well founded. The reduction of central government budget support is linked to the state transfer of public education tasks. The funding of the public education institutions, the funds received from the municipalities, did not cover the maintenance of the institutions received, and a correction of HUF 20 billion was made already in 2014. This interim correction has been incorporated into the 2015 appropriations and has become a base. The total amount of the central budget reserves is HUF 332.9 billion, with an estimate of HUF 100 billion in the reserve for extraordinary government measures. [[10.10]] The funding of the National Defence Fund for HUF 60 billion has been considered partially sound, not because we are already short of this amount, but because we believe that this reserve should cover revenue losses resulting from macroeconomic risks, such as the consequences of lower inflation than planned, or expenditure increases, such as possible surpluses resulting from higher than planned interest rates. However, the effects of realistic risks do not necessarily arise. For example, it is unlikely that if inflation is lower than planned, the interest rate level will exceed the estimated value. It therefore requires careful analysis and consideration as to the extent to which a reserve should be allocated to manage quantifiable risks. However, the justification of the bill does not indicate the nature and extent of the risks involved in setting the HUF 60 billion appropriation. Of course, the State Audit Office does not expect the budget to have sufficient reserves for extreme adverse developments, as this would require the creation of a reserve to prevent the necessary development of other areas of public finances and unduly curb economic growth. It is important to point out that there will also be no substantial changes in the tax system, i.e. no need to take into account the risk that has been associated with the introduction of new taxes in previous years. The process of whitening the economy continues. The estimated budgetary balance improvement effect of the measures is HUF 25 billion for the extension of the use of online cash registers and HUF 60 billion for the introduction of the electronic road traffic control system; additional revenue is expected. New businesses will have to make VAT returns on a monthly basis, and businesses with sales or purchases above HUF 50 million per year will be subject to a quarterly VAT declaration instead of the previous year. The question is whether this process results in a further HUF 300 billion increase in tax revenue overall. We can't be sure of that, so the SAO indicated a risk in this regard. Our discharge checks show that the government is increasingly able to control expenditure and structural measures such as the elimination or substantial limitation of early retirements, or even the restructuring of the pharmaceutical support system, are making tangible savings on the expenditure side of public finances, strengthening the sustainability of the budget year after year. In part, the new public financial standards of the Fundamental Law, partly as a result of the tightening of the EU framework, improved transparency in budgetary planning and improved the governance of the process at chapter level. Finally, one of the biggest uncertainties in planning central budget financing is the balance of EU transfers between other items to be financed, which has also been a problem for years. Changes in projections of up to HUF 100 billion in the short term pose a significant risk to government debt management, as it can force a deviation from the financing plan, even under adverse market conditions. The State Audit Office will continue to monitor the establishment of the central budget for next year, following the publication of the budgetary opinion, and will continue to support the work of the Fiscal Council in order to enable the Fiscal Council to make an informed decision before the final vote in Parliament regarding the fulfilment of the sovereign debt rule. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-19-6	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. I now give the floor to Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, in a 30-minute timeframe.
u2014-11-19-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The Budgetary Council, acting as a body in support of the legislative activity of the Parliament, on the basis of the mandate given in the Fundamental Law of Hungary, will examine its merits in the preparation of the draft law on the central budget. We are just at this stage, and before the final vote on this bill, the Council is watching out for compliance with the sovereign debt rule. With all due respect, I'll see you at the end of December. The Council's draft bill on Hungary's central budget for 2015 sent to the Minister of National Economy on 20 October 2014? will I continue to mention it as a draft? expressed its opinion. He built on the findings of the State Audit Office of Hungary, the National Bank of Hungary, and used the forecasts presented by various analytical institutes at a conference for this purpose, as well as the analyses of independent experts, and the projections of relevant international organisations. It is also part of the transparent work that the Council has studied hundreds of pages of documents that are accessible and certainly nuanced to the honourable Members and gentlemen. The Council, at its meeting on 27 October 2014, established its opinion on the draft for the Government with regard to these documents and forwarded it to the national Ministry of National Economy and made it public. On the basis of the mandate of the Council, I would like now, at the beginning of the general debate, to share briefly the opinion, focusing on the fulfilment of the deficit target and the sovereign debt rule with the House, of course, including the extent to which the proposed bill takes account of the opinion of the Council. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me first to address the draft budget law that came to the Budget Council for its opinion and then the government response to the Council's opinion. In particular, I mention the expected implementation of the 2014 Budget Act as a base for planning for 2015. The Council considers that the strengthening of economic growth in 2014 beyond what is planned will increase the security of budget revenue and expenditure. At the same time, the Council, while maintaining a six-monthly assessment of the state of implementation of the budget, is likely to make a loss in respect of certain payments made by an entity, in relation to the general turnover tax and excise duty compared to the appropriations. Less than calculated VAT revenue is linked to low inflation and should also be added to replace this loss by a personal income tax and social contribution tax that is expected to exceed the appropriations, as well as contributions. The security of the deficit target is also served by the non-use of the National Defence Fund and the maintenance of appropriations closures ordered during the year. In its opinion, the Council considered it important to point out that the expected implementation of the 2014 budget was taken into account in the overall planning on the basis of the 2015 budget appropriations. On the basis of the 2015 budget bill, the Council did not have any fundamental objections to the credibility and enforceability of the draft budget bill which would have justified the indication of disagreement. I should mention here that there is little difference between the draft opinion of the Council and the bill you have also heard about, with regard to the main amounts and indicators. [[10.20]] On this basis, the majority of the Council's findings on the draft are justified and correct in view of the bill. The council on the macroeconomic path presented? taking into account the values of Hungary's convergence programme for 2014-2017 as well as the professional materials and projections at its disposal and within its competence? concluded that the macroeconomic targets on which the plan is based, including a 2.5 percent increase, can be achieved when favourable external and internal conditions are maintained. Domestic growth in 2015 is driven mainly by the strengthening of domestic demand, as there is a more favourable economic activity in the competitive sector, and investments will continue to grow. Improved performance also supports high wage outflow, which can have a positive impact on public finances' revenues. At the same time, still high retail indebtedness continues to curb the dynamics of retail expenditure, the outsourcing of foreign exchange loans, the settlement between banks and debtors, and the forinting of foreign currency loans can contribute to a longer-term increase in retail consumption. The growth credit programme of the Hungarian National Bank plays an important role in the sustainable growth path of the economy, but do we share the view that the economic development is likely to slow down slightly next year compared to the strong 2014 base? the maintenance of favourable conditions? it's hard to achieve similar performance. This is particularly true of the increase in investment, where a large increase in the use of EU funds was one of the dynamic factors. In view of the fact that EU funds are available until 2015, the paradoxical situation may arise that the increased use in 2014 will improve the 2014 but will worsen the economic growth potential in 2015. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill for 2015 according to the EU methodology in the government sector? I stress, according to the European Union methodology? set its deficit target at 2.4 per cent of GDP. Does this mean that the deficit is compared to the 3 per cent ceiling laid down in the Public Finance Act? in the event of planned economic growth? the gap is significant, very ambitious. At the same time, the Council considered that an analysis of macroeconomic developments and a comparative review of the projections and evaluation of the requested analytical institutes should be considered in order to ensure the safe implementation of the 2.4 percent deficit target, in order to cover the external and internal risks identified by it, the establishment of the National Defence Fund above HUF 40 billion in the draft. In the context of the analysis of the deficit target, did the Council not find a proper explanation that, according to the draft, the debt of the municipal sub-sector? In particular, to finance the start-up development? increase from HUF 40 billion a year to HUF 200 billion, while the deficit can only be HUF 15 billion. The Council considers that the increase in debt of 160 billion will lead to an increase in the current deficit of more than 15 billion, even taking into account that some of the loans received are not being used immediately by the municipalities or that there will be municipalities that will have a positive balance on the 2015 budget. In addition to the initiative to re-examine this relationship, the Council stressed the need for the government to contribute only to municipal borrowings that are repaid from municipal sources in order to avoid a new wave of local government indebtedness. For the first time, the bill contains a reference to the structural deficit. This indicator is a balance cleared from the cyclical effects of the economy and individual items, linked to the medium-term orientation of fiscal policy. The Council did not obtain sufficient information from the draft and could therefore not assess the 2015 target. It considered it appropriate for the government to present the calculations in this regard. On the basis of the analysis of the revenue presented in the draft, in the absence of some decisions, in a very narrow manner, did the Council consider that the budget's main tax and contribution revenue? On the basis of the expected performance in 2014, GDP growth in 2015, inflation, employment, growth in consumption, further results of measures to support the whitening of the economy, taking these into account? In most cases, they are realistic. However, in terms of consumption taxes, especially VAT, the Council was likely to be at risk because of the excessive expectations of the outcome of the fight against the black economy and tax evasion. It should be noted that the impact of the measures underlying the VAT increase planned for 2015 such as the entry of the road freight control system from 1 January next year, the connection of online cash registers, the tightening of the tax return frequency and the increase in the number of taxpayers can only be measured ex post. The downward risks surrounding inflation can also reduce some of the budget's revenue, which can be offset by the hope of an increase in consumption beyond what is planned. Does it significantly reduce the risk of tax revenues and thereby strengthen the stability of the budget, that in its principles the tax system - this is where our opinion conflicts with a number of opinions? It will only change slightly in 2015. To preserve the predictability of the tax system? Based on this opportunity? Instead of extending taxes, the Council focused on further improving the efficiency of tax collection and preventing the creation of outstanding amounts. In its opinion, did the Council also point out that the draft puts so-called other sales and exploitation revenues within the revenue of state assets at a very high level? That's 169 billion forints? However, the exact content of this has not been established, which can be considered as significant uncertainty both in terms of implementation and statistical accounting, notably from the point of view of EU methodologies. The Council considers that there may be a problem if the expenditure of the revenue-related investment fund cannot be stopped during the year in the event of a loss of revenue. Investment is highly likely to do so. I must note here a problem that I think is remarkable in terms of stimulating private investment. In addition to the positive effects, I believe that we cannot ignore the increasing amount of budgetary resources being tied down by subsidies that attract investment. Compared to these, we do not always get a positive balance with their benefits. Is it also necessary to mention that the evaluation of expenditure appropriations made it very difficult for the Council to explain the deeper content of the measures behind major expenditure changes from the draft? And isn't that the fault of the National Economy Department designers? He couldn't have met her. [[10.30]] It should be noted that the opinion of the Budgetary Council is not supported by the government's response to the fact that they are available in detail in the chapter volumes. These volumes were only recently received by this House, so its opinion on them was formed by the Council on the basis of the projection of trends in recent years and the measures already known. Taking this into account, does the National Family and Social Policy Fund reduce expenditure through the start-up processes? a fall in the number of people receiving pre-retirement benefits, a decrease in the number of children entitled to family allowances due to the exit of higher age groups? is consistent. It is also realistic, on the basis of the 2014 performance, that the budget for housing subsidies for 2015 is lower than 2014. At the same time, expenditure uncertainties appear in public education appropriations, where, in the light of the measures taken so far, it would be expected that staff expenditure will increase more than planned. Dear Parliament, The government debt ratio planned in accordance with the Stability Act will decrease from 76,3 per cent to 75,4 per cent expected by the end of 2014 and the debt rule will be fulfilled in 2015. Does the improvement of the indicator by almost 1 percentage point mean that the debt rule will be fulfilled even if GDP or the government deficit? the risks indicated by the council? I would like to point out that it is slightly less favourable than that contained in the bill. At the same time, the new EU requirement? i.e. a reduction in public debt above 60% of GDP by at least one-third per year from 2016 and a improvement in the structural balance? In order to achieve this, and in terms of the country's development, it is important to reduce public debt at a pace. Is that why the council suggested to the government a debt reduction programme? at least 2022, i.e. until the end of the ongoing EU budget cycle? and taking into account the results of economic development building on EU funds. Overall, in addition to favourable processes, the Council identified a number of risks related to the fulfilment of the deficit target and the sovereign debt rule. The macro-economic path, including 2.5 percent economic growth, is considered feasible if the external conditionality, international economic activity and investor confidence do not deteriorate significantly, and the inflow of EU funds related to the EU budget cycle 2007-2013 will be in line with the bill. On the revenue side, it sees risks in the development of tax bases related to consumption and in the sale of state assets. Dear Parliament, The council's opinion this time? Compared to before? He received a detailed government response, which can be learned by everyone at the end of the main volume of the bill. That's why I'm only briefly reflecting on it here. First of all, I note that we consider the changes in appropriations included in the government response to be a gesture. The government? without a description of the risks that it is likely to face? The National Defence Fund has increased its budget by HUF 20 billion, from 40 to HUF 60 billion. At the same time, it indicated that the deficit target of general government according to the EU methodology could be maintained in the event of economic growth of 0.4 per cent less than planned. At the same time, however, the VAT forecast, which KT already considers to be tighter than planned, has been increased, thereby increasing the likelihood of a loss of revenue. Did they increase it at the same time? From HUF 15 billion to HUF 25 billion? the lack of a local government subsystem. In doing so, the Council's suggestion that the planned deficit of HUF 15 billion in this sector could be maintained in the event of an increase in debt of HUF 160 billion was somewhat supported. At the same time, it was noted that the debt of HUF 200 billion was a theoretical maximum rather than a concrete forecast. Excuse me, but I must mention that perhaps the Council's view that instead of extending taxes, emphasis should be placed on the prevention of outstanding amounts and on improving the efficiency of tax collection work has contributed to the withdrawal of the intention to extend the telecommunications tax to the Internet. In addition, for future consideration, I note that broadening the tax bases could increase the cost of taxation, sometimes problematic from a social and social policy point of view, increasing the cost of collecting taxes, increasing the risk of tax losses. The government? Despite its firm commitment to keeping the deficit target and reducing public debt? the Council's proposal to develop a medium-term debt deleveraging programme has not been adopted on the grounds that existing EU and domestic rules provide sufficient guarantees for a continued reduction in debt. The Council was unable to assess whether the structural deficit could be met due to the narrowness of the draft. The government has already explained in detail in the general explanatory memorandum to the bill that the deficit would be 1.6 per cent by 2015, which is in line with the rate of 1.7 per cent of GDP in the convergence programme's medium-term budgetary objective. Dear Parliament, Not out of formality and not in response to the Minister's gesture, but in the end, I would like to thank the Minister of National Economy and his colleagues for the fact that the Council's work has been greatly assisted and for the difficult planning conditions? Did you have a very short time? have allowed the Council to prepare its opinion in meaningful work. I would also like to thank the staff of the State Audit Office, the National Bank of Hungary, the Secretariat of the Board of Budgets, the institutions asked for analysis and the staff of the individual economic operators for supporting the Council's opinion with a versatile, professional basis, based on alternative macroeconomic model calculations and sensitivity tests, independent of government projections. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thanking you for your attention, I would like to wish you a good job in creating a central budget law for the country's development, discussing proposals and proposals for amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-19-8	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the House must decide on a meeting matter. The Vice-Presidents of the Parliament are expected to participate in the debate during the discussion of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015. Since the rules of the House provide that they can carry out their duties in relation to the leadership of the sitting only if the Parliament agrees, I will initiate the House to give its consent to Mr István Hiller, Mr István Jakab, Mr János Latorcai, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice-President. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my proposal. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame, while two-minute speeches are not possible. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within a total of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Antal Rogán. [[10.40]]
u2014-11-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Lords and Ladies, One of the most important objectives of each budget is the response of the budget and, at the same time as the budget, the laws to be negotiated by Parliament to the question of how Hungarian families will live in Hungary in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, when negotiating the budget law, we must also inevitably speak about the objectives of the legislation which is also in front of this House, either already adopted or discussed in parallel with the budget law, and subsequently adopted by the Parliament. The 2015 budget is convinced that its basic messages are as follows. Firstly, thanks to the 2015 budget, more money will remain in Hungary with working families. Second, the 2015 budget supports young married people who are about to start a family and continues to give priority to families raising children. Thirdly, this budget continues the practice of bringing people who want to work in Hungary to work instead of to work instead of to help. Ladies and gentlemen, If we open these goals a little more thoroughly, then we may have to start with what leaves more money than working Hungarian families in 2015. It is worth looking back here for a moment. In 2011-12, the financial position and financial situation of Hungarian families improved because the Parliament decided to introduce one of Europe's most gallant family tax relief systems. As a result, the financial position of Hungarian families and Hungarian families raising children improved significantly in 2011 and 2012. At first, more than 200 billion forints remained with the tax reduction for children in Hungarian families, with this year 240 billion forints. It is worth recalling that in 2014, as decided by the Parliament, this family tax reduction was also complemented by the fact that from 2014 onwards, families with the lowest income were able to deduct the amount of tax relief for children not only from the tax but also from the contributions they paid. Thus, the financial position of the lowest earning Hungarian families and working Hungarian families improved by nearly HUF 35-40 billion. This means that families with the lowest income income per month had an income increase of up to HUF 10-15 thousand because they were able to make better and more effective use of the tax allowance for raising children. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2013-14, the financial situation of the Hungarian families improved because there was a reduction in rent. In line with the decision of the Hungarian Parliament, the government reduced the burden on families living in Hungary to an unprecedented extent. Accordingly, the average overhead burden of Hungarian families decreased by 15-20 percent first and overall by 25 percent, which meant that electricity, water or gas charges, the reduction of district heating charges, left much more money for Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2015 budget, there will be a reduction in the rent and tax incentives for children. This means that the hundreds of billions of HUF that we left for the first time in 2011-12 and then increased in 2013-14 with Hungarian families will remain with Hungarian families in 2015. So we protect the reduction of the rent and protect family tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, more money will be left over by working Hungarian families because the banks will be accounted for. As a result of the accounting of the banks, the financial situation of Hungarian families with forint loans and foreign exchange loans is improving, as the repayments of foreign exchange lenders can be reduced by 25-30 percent and the repayments of the forint lenders by up to 10 percent from March and April 2015. As a result, more money remains than Hungarian families. For example, an average family with foreign exchange credit, who currently pays around HUF 100,000 a month, will pay nearly HUF 25 thousand less from April or May. This means that this money will increase the family budget. Ladies and gentlemen, If, on the other hand, we are staying with family tax incentives, it is worth mentioning here that, as we first introduced the full family tax scheme, we extended it to small families in 2014 and 2015 by adding that families who are now getting married will receive tax relief under the 2015 budget. Practically 120 thousand HUF wedding gifts are given to all newlyweds and every new couple from the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian state. [[István Tukacs and Zoltán Gőgös intervene.]] We must also add, ladies and gentlemen, that within the framework of this budget... I see that this is dissatisfied with my fellow opposition Members. When they were on the government, of course they didn't do that, then they increased the burden of Hungarian families every year, without exception. I'm sure your dissatisfaction is due to this, as it turns out, this policy can be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2015 budget, we decide that we will increase the tax relief of families raising two children. They will therefore receive more support from the budget from 1 January 2016. But this is already included in the 2015 budget. From 1 January 2016, the tax relief of families raising two children will increase by HUF 2500 per child annually. This means that in four years we will double the tax relief for families with two children. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth talking about the fact that there is more money left over by Hungarian families because the budget will continue the career plans. In 2013, we started the teacher career program, resulting in an increase in teachers' income. In 2015, this educational career program will continue, which means that an average wage increase of 10 percent will occur again in Hungarian teachers from September. In addition to the rise in income, the teacher career program ensures predictability and long-term long-term persistence, and gives the Hungarian educators an appreciation. At this time, I think that, when there will be a budgetary debate on what my fellow opposition Members support or what they do not support, I would very much welcome it, especially in the light of the statements made in recent weeks, when they spoke of the need to withdraw the civil government's action in all areas of education, they would also report whether they would also like to withdraw the salary increase for teachers. Would you like to eliminate the teacher's career program? We don't want to. We want to continue this. We will protect and increase the income of teachers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: They're all going to be stupid.]] In addition to the pedagogue career programme, it will start in the 2015 budget, and in the framework of further career programmes, an increase in the appreciation of workers in other budgetary sectors will also be launched. First, the appreciation of law enforcement workers is due to the launch in July 2015 of a career programme in the law enforcement sector, which I think has been waiting for for for a long time, both in the police and in the military. The budget will create the necessary conditions for this. If you will vote for this, my fellow Members, the salary of police officers and soldiers in Hungary will increase by an average of 30 percent from July 2015. The career program also means that this will continue year after year, so in addition to material appreciation, a predictable law enforcement career program will be launched in Hungary. This is not the only career program we have set out to pursue. The government is currently negotiating in other areas of the budget sector. We think it is important that in 2015, we can take the first step towards launching a career programme for those working in the social sector. Will the results of the discussions on this be brought to Parliament by the government in 2015? That's what the faction wants. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth talking about the fact that, in the framework of this budget, we are also strengthening the position of Hungarian families in several other areas. As part of the educational measures, not only do we increase the pay of teachers in the teacher career program, but at the same time we also expand the range of Hungarian families who receive free textbooks. A substantial number of people will receive free textbooks in 2015 and, on average, the price of textbooks will decrease in 2015, my fellow Members. [[10.50]] It is also worth talking about the fact that the 2015 budget creates the financial conditions for the mandatory kindergarten in Hungary from the age of three years from September 2015. We believe that this is a very important step forward in the fight against child poverty, for example, ladies and gentlemen, because we should not forget that, from 1 September 2015 onwards, all children will be in kindergarten, which also means that they will have access to basic services, food, education, access to all Hungarian children from September 2015 onwards? all Hungarian children! ? the budget, the institutions of the Hungarian State, together with the municipalities, can provide some form of care. I also ask my fellow opposition Members to support this programme. In the framework of the budget, but it is extremely important anyway, and in order for the children to actually get to the kindergarten, I would also ask them to support the fact that, after we had previously tied the family allowance to school attendance, we can now make sure that from 2015 onwards the family allowance is also paid to the kindergarten. This is important, because this is how we can guarantee that Hungarian children will actually get to kindergarten and school, and the Hungarian state can guarantee them the minimum services that are all a major step forward in the fight against child poverty through kindergarten and school. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth talking about the fact that, at the same time as the 2015 budget, we will review the aid system in Hungary. We must say that we must end the period of abuse of aid in Hungary. I think we'll stick our heads in the sand if we don't talk about this. There has always been, in previous years, and this has caused the outrage of the Hungarian families who financed the aid system from their taxes. A system of relief should be established within which the potential for abuse is minimal. At the same time, the state has to get to everyone, take care of everyone. For this reason, the Fidesz parliamentary group can support a new social support system in the legislation relating to the budget, with the aim of ensuring that there are basic aid schemes that the state can reach everyone and that everyone who is of working age can offer either work or employment replacement support. The basic aim of our Fraction is to increase the number of people in public employment every year, in the spirit of work, instead of aid, and to reduce the number of people who receive job replacements every year, precisely so that everyone who is able to work in Hungary can get work and work, and should not have the excuse to apply for aid because they cannot get a job that is provided either by the budget or by anyone else. We still need to take steps to do this, ladies and gentlemen, because we need to say that we cannot provide work for everyone today, even in the context of public employment, but we can launch that programme and set out the goal of 25 percent each year in the next four years to increase the number of people who are involved in public employment, not in the current number of people, but in the number of people who today receive replacements for employment. Therefore, if we increase the number of people in the public employment sector by 25 percent in 2015, this means that tens of thousands of people have more access to public employment and that there is less to pay for employment replacements. We must add, ladies and gentlemen, that this budget overall costs more, because public employment requires more money than support for employment. But I think it also serves to appreciate the man, and it also helps that those who work in public employment can say that they support their family from work, and that they should be prepared to be able to get a market-based job if the Hungarian economy allows. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must say that, while the state provides support to all those who are able to work in some form, as a substitute for job opportunities or employment, and that they are not able to provide public support within the framework of the State Aid Scheme, while all other social assistance needs to be decided on locally by the communities, it is precisely in order to have the opportunity to significantly reduce the number of abuses. No one can see better than the local community, who is truly eligible and who is not. This decision-making competence, opportunity and responsibility must therefore also be deployed to local communities. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth discussing that the government will continue to develop health care. The sector will have more money next year. The main objective is to strengthen the general medical system. Accordingly, we will increase the benefits of GPs. This is where everything that is essential in health begins: basic care, honourable Members. For years, we have not been able to ensure the respect of doctors working in primary care. If we look back over the last two decades, it was the first civilian government to take the first serious step towards honoring general practitioners by introducing a system of general medical practice. Now we can do the second one at the beginning of a next cycle, which is why we will significantly increase their benefits and improve the appreciation of general practitioners. We will continue with programmes to encourage young doctors to stay at home, as well as the development of hospitals and the settlement of hospital debts. Health promotion will play a key role in the new health system and the strengthening of the pre-screening system will also play an extremely important role. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think it is worth talking about the fact that public employment is not the only thing in the budget that we are trying to encourage job creation. Perhaps my fellow Member Szatmáry will talk more about this through businesses, but I would also like to point out that Hungary has had an action plan for the protection of jobs since 2013 and that we decided to introduce it in 2012. As a result of the action plan for the protection of jobs, we have been able to support hundreds of thousands of jobs in Hungary and thus preserve some 800,000 jobs. The results of the job protection action plan will be protected and further carried out in 2015. What is new is that next year, within the job protection action plan, there will be full tax relief after the part-time employment of parents with small children, and the overall increase in employment could result in the state spending less on aid or income replacement aid. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to say that, as far as the government is concerned, within the limits allowed by the European Union, it will continue to fight tax fraud in the coming year. In 2015, we will be able to further expand the range of products for which we can reduce VAT. In 2014, we achieved a reduction in VAT for half-carcases from 27 percent to 5 percent. Now, for other large live animals, such as cattle, my fellow socialists, which may also be important, there will be a VAT reduction. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And here I would like to ask the honourable Socialist Group? By the way, if you remember, in 2006, you raised the VAT on food to a significant extent, although you promised to do the opposite when you were governed? I would like to ask you now to support this VAT reduction, and I would also like to ask my honourable socialist fellow Members, who are apparently offended by the fact that we occasionally mention their 2006 measures here in the House, to support the government's objective of fighting VAT fraud in such a way that, apparently, the possibilities of dispatching and returning to another country in the food industry are significantly limited by the control of road traffic. This is extremely important, we can prevent tax fraud of tens or even hundreds of billions, and we can also prevent VAT abuse. I ask you to support the necessary legislative amendments here in Parliament. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth talking about the fact that we can achieve these goals in Hungary while we do not live up to the future, the financial position of the budget is not deteriorating, its deficit is not increasing and public debt is not increasing. When the socialists governed, all the opposite were true. If you remember it, the Hungarian people's standard of living deteriorated during the socialists' governance, the rent increased, and, moreover, the budget deficit was loosened, and the sovereign debt was doubled nominally by our fellow socialists during their governance. [[11.00]] I have to say that, compared to this, in 2015 we have to see that we can achieve the goals that we represent by reducing the budget deficit to 2.4 percent, that economic growth is 2.5 percent, which, by the way, is an economic growth that exceeds the European Union's average, and we can also reduce public debt. Ladies and gentlemen, Responsible farming and improving financial situation of Hungarian families? This will be the year 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Kristóf Szatmáry, another lead speaker of the Fidesz faction. You have the floor.
u2014-11-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I could start by saying that, as in the life of a company, in the life of a country, the economic plans for the next year, the budget for the next year are the best mirror, a mirror that shows what we think of ourselves, what we think of ourselves, how we want to show ourselves to the world, and how seriously we take ourselves; especially in the case of Hungary, where, unfortunately, in the last ten years there have been several budgets that have been less demanding, it is very important to highlight them. What do we see if I want to say a few words about next year's budget very briefly and figuratively? We see an orderly, moderate but demanding self-portrait in this budget, which is based on what is most important in the planning of a budget, that the deficit that basically pushed Hungary to the brink of crisis or crisis with a deficit of 7-8 percent in the mid-2000s is in line with the budgets since 2010, i.e. within the 3 percent where a sustainable budgetary path is drawn. From the point of view of businesses, I would like to make a decisive interpretation of the economic environment next year from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. What is important for entrepreneurs? What is important for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary? There are three main areas in which it is worth looking at the budget. One is the business environment itself, i.e. the state's willingness to support it, how seriously it takes it, how much it feels about domestic businesses that they should be given the backbone of the domestic economy. Here the most important factor that businesses are looking at is whether it is small or large, whether the country's budget is balanced. If the country's budget is in balance, then there is no problem for businesses that, during the year, the government will try to reduce the deficit in such a way, and in such a way the government will try to intervene with all sorts of unexpected instruments during the year, which, by the way, have happened several times before 2010. Once again, what we are seeing is very important, we are seeing budgetary stability, predictability. What we see, however, is that this economic policy, which is one of Europe's lowest corporate taxes, is 10% for businesses with turnover below 500 million, and economic policy is only taking steps to the budget to further improve the situation of businesses. There have been a lot of debates, and the press is also loud about certain tax changes, but I would like to say that the vast majority of Hungarian businesses, 99 percent of them are small and medium-sized enterprises, and those tax changes that can add to certain companies on a sectoral basis, this means a few dozen businesses nationwide, and it does not add to the small business that gives the backbone of the Hungarian economy. It is also an important factor that the budget provides funding for public bodies that control the everyday life of businesses and show the state to businesses in their relations with them. There was a period not so long ago when public bodies were underfunded in the budget and forced public bodies to try to improve their budgetary situation by imposing fines and continuing business losses. Fortunately, this was also provided for by the post-2010 legislation, and the 2015 budget also fully finances public bodies operating with businesses, so there is no pressure on budgetary bodies to try to collect any additional burden from businesses. The other large area, I mentioned, outside the business environment, is, as a matter of fact, how the company can finance itself, how it can finance its turnover, how it can finance its investments. A very favourable trend started in Hungary after 2010 and, in essence, it was almost impossible to obtain credit before 2010. We now see that, through the National Bank's resources and through the reduction of the base rate, the commercial banks, the entrepreneurs have and will certainly be able to make use of it, as one of the biggest winners of the budget and through it one of the biggest opportunities of Hungarian businesses is the emergence of EU funds in the new cycle. We see that no such EU support per capita has ever arrived in the country, and the good news for businesses is that the use of these EU funds is thought to be 60 percent by the government of producing businesses, investment which, by the way, will further increase the country's competitiveness through job creation. So if we are talking about the second large area, how and how businesses can develop, this is also guaranteed by next year's budget. Perhaps the most important part of businesses, if the business environment is already okay, if the resources are already available to businesses, whether they can sell their own products and services on the market. We can see that a positive trend started a few years ago, that consumption is constantly increasing in Hungary, and this is also very important, because the foreign market is also important, and we can also talk about a growing expansion of the foreign market based on macroeconomic data, but the vast majority of domestic businesses, we know, operate on the domestic market, work here, supply here, trade here. For these companies, it is good news that the budget, as has been said here, leaves more money than people through more channels, whether it be the career models that Mr. Group leader has talked about, whether it is a system of family tax incentives, which, by the way, has several positive benefits next year, whether it is the job protection action plan, which is bilateral, because it makes it easier for entrepreneurs to apply Hungarian workers through discounts. Here, by the way, it has already reduced the burden on Hungarian businesses in terms of employment by more than HUF 200 billion. These measures go further, and, if you can say, here are additional benefits, for example, for women returning after childbirth, in terms of part-time work in the budget for next year, and the most important item, not directly in the budget, but from the budget side, which is basically millions of Hungarian families, millions of Hungarian citizens, left more money at home, which we hope will be well spent. Some of this certainly appears as consumption on the domestic market, which from the entrepreneurial side means that the Hungarian people can spend more money than the service providers in the shops. Overall, in its main trends, the 2015 budget will carry forward positive measures already taken for entrepreneurs in previous years, maintaining the low tax burden as much as 99 percent of the sector, adding new EU funds to the opportunities and leaving more money to Hungarian residents and Hungarian families, thus giving businesses an opportunity to expand. [[11.10]] All in all, I can therefore say that this is a budget that we will certainly support and support here in Parliament in order to strengthen the economy, in order for job creation to grow, and in order for the Hungarian economy to really grow the dynamics, the strength, the exceptional situation that happened in terms of economic growth last semester, to continue in 2015 so that we can have another year behind us, where the majority of the economy, where Hungarian citizens can continue to grow. That is why we will ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP group indicated that the group's position would be presented by two speakers within a total of 30 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr József Tobias, Head of Group, MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Anita Heringes and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély bring the national flag and the European Union flag into the room and place them behind the benches of the MSZP. ? There's a grumble in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik. ? Intercom from Fidesz: The flag is coming!]]
u2014-11-19-13	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, From the 2015 budget plan, it is clear that the Orbán government is not prepared to draw up a technically sound and socially real budget for Hungary, which reflects its real state and international challenges. However, the country is in a really difficult situation, and it would be difficult today to call this budget a sound modernisation and solidarity budget, taking careful account of its social situation. This current budget is intended to be adopted by the government at a time when there are street movements and demonstrations across the country when discontent becomes felt and massed. These are, for the time being, the character of political protests, and they are not hunger riots. But this budget does not reflect at all on these problems and these challenges, the real situation of the country. [[The staff of the Office Security Service will take the flags placed behind the benches of the MSZP out of the room. ? István Apáti intervenes.]] Dear House, One of my fellow Members said that with the budget for next year, the government will turn its back on children, doctors, nurses and patients having lunch in the cafeteria. The most dangerous budget of the last 20 years is because it is a threat not only to the next year, but also to the future of our children. I see, I hear, I sense everywhere I go, people get up and lie down with the anxiety that they can lose everything again, they can take away everything they've worked for, what they want to know for themselves. [[András Tállai: You're in the wrong place! Not to the faction seat of the MSZP...!]] They could lose their jobs, their livelihoods, they could take their homes, they could lose their valuables, they could lose their wages, they could lose their pensions, they could lose their safety. [[L. Simon László: What are you talking about? ? Márius Révész intervenes.]] We got there, twenty years after the fall of the dictatorship, that a general sense of life like the one that ruled here in Hungary would slowly be overcome by the 20th World War II. In the century. I didn't think, ladies and gentlemen, that our grandparents wouldn't have thought, what a denial, I wouldn't have thought, that there might still be a time, twenty years after the fall of dictatorship. [[L. Simon László: Twenty-five!]] when those in power, within the framework of a system based on democracy and freedom, not only can they take everything away from people again, but they even try to take away what they can cling to as a last straw: the future, the hope of the future. Mr. President, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, In 2009, Viktor Orbán said these words. [[L. Simon László: That's good.]] That would be nice, wouldn't it? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why we didn't understand 20!]] But the situation is much bigger. Today, there is a period of reality for everything the Prime Minister said at the moment, in 2009. Today, more than four million people live around the minimum living population, and the number of people living in extreme poverty is estimated to be 1.5 million. Children who do not get adequate food live and starve in Hungary in hundreds of thousands of sizes, without adequate social and family conditions. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when you reduce the budget for the next year by 20 billion of children's meals, how will future children be prepared for the challenges of the labour market. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: What are you talking about?]] Speaking of Professor Zsuzsa Ferge, it is the government's responsibility to leave one and a half million and two million people on the side of the road, but to push them into the ditch and even throw land at them. Unfortunately, you consistently do not understand, or deliberately do not misunderstand, the obvious fact. By making a third of the country even poorer, giving them no way out, no chance, they make the whole country poorer. And it's not an urban legend, and you know it. Recently, in a summary of several research projects, he demonstrated that poverty has increased in several countries since 2007, including the greatest deterioration in Hungary, where the number of families with children who have had no money for food has increased by 32 percent over the last six years. Research into OECD countries revealed that almost half of the families with children in Hungary had problems buying food. Ladies and gentlemen, If you accept this budget, you will pass a verdict on half of the country that makes it clear that you have given up on them. As if you do not realize that this is not only a moral failure, but it is also a permanent damage to the whole country. In the meantime, at the specific level, you imagine the country's growth to be an absolute split-up. First of all, 16 per cent of personal income tax remains, which, despite all its benefits, continues to benefit only those with higher incomes. The government will therefore continue to collect most of the taxes through consumption. Europe's largest, 27 percent VAT remains, which affects everyone, but also the low-income people most. People with low incomes spend more on food, and the government should recognise the fact that in Hungary there is a higher share of expenditure on food than in certain EU countries and a quarter of our total expenditure. The cycle and perhaps the most irresponsible proposal of the 2015 budget are to increase the food chain monitoring fee by 60 times, which is mostly for consumer groups, for those businesses [[Sándor Font: 300 billion HUF over traffic!]] creates a load increase... Of course, you have promised several times in Hungary [[Zoltán Grumpy and Sándor Font intervene. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact that the taxes you impose cannot be passed on to consumers, citizens, is compared to every tax that you have claimed cannot be passed on today, all of which appear at the daily level of consumption of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, It is similar, if not worse, in the case of education. After all, in terms of public education funding, in real terms, there is a decrease of 10 percent, including a nominal reduction of 25 per cent in secondary education in the following year, which obviously results in a drastic reduction in the number of high-school seats planned by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also clear from the budget proposal that next year, the National Family and Social Policy Fund spending could be reduced to HUF 646 billion after HUF 714 billion this year. That's about 10 percent nominally. In particular, family allowances can be reduced from HUF 446 billion to HUF 422 billion, while the government is expected to spend 23 percent less on underage benefits. The total amount of supplementary social assistance may also be reduced. You are creating resources for your senseless and unjustified public spending by reducing social expenditure. And that is the cynicism of the law, my fellow Members. In addition to kicking a little elsewhere, they came up with a drastic tax increase in the cafeteria portion of non-wage benefits. Even though Antal Rogán's group leader half backed down, he didn't completely. Could there be more protests to understand by the current government that society does not accept the growth, stronger Hungary and development path that you have said so much? [[11.20]] After all, the government has raised the tax burden of the exempt part of the cafeteria from 0 to 51,3% in 6 years. This is certainly a burden on a number of businesses that cannot pay extra-wage benefits, and this is detrimental to employment and workers. [[Nándor Gúr: Shame! Shame!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Really, for this budget? As the leader of the Fidesz faction put it? He's got priorities. If they're lost somewhere, obviously the plus one has to appear somewhere. The centralisation of government activities will therefore continue. The budget allocation of the Prime Minister's Office will increase by HUF 227 billion, and the value of 2014 will increase by several times. I do not understand why they do not at least spend directly on stadiums; although it is possible to hire some interpreters to join Internet professionals in government offices and ministries. Sport is not one of the stepchildren, especially football. The problem is not the intention, but the measure: the construction and reconstruction of the stadium continues in Hungary in the order of 100 billion. Next year's budget is already counting on the Paks investment at HUF 28 billion in appropriations. But the budget doesn't know if it's being called off by the Russian loan next year. All we know for sure is that there has been no background study of the investment, which means that the government is blindly starting the Paks project defining the energy policy of the next hundred years. Not to mention that MVM will receive a HUF 50 billion capital increase in the budget next year, but it does not reveal what it would need. The government has often expressed its intention to continuously reduce public expenditure, their share of GDP. This budget proposal is in line with this, as it reduces the figure by 0.9 percent. However, it is more than surprising that this is achieved by a significant increase in expenditure on the operational functions of the State, which, in turn, leads to a limitation and reduction of large systems of welfare expenditure, education, health care and social expenditure. For decades, only one government has failed to forget the table showing the functional distribution of public finances in the budget proposal. This would have shown, in an otherwise predictable way, that expenditure on the operational functions of the State would have increased from 7.6 per cent in 2015 to 7.9 per cent in 2015, with the main role of the government's operating costs; and it would have been shown that from the 28.4% ratio spent on welfare functions in 2014, you would want to spend exactly 1 percent less next year. The same is true to reduce the share of social security and welfare services from 16.3 percent to 15.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, You can trick, you can use propaganda to tell the opposite of the facts, it doesn't change the reality. The speeches of the Fidesz representatives will not increase next month's wages in the envelopes. We need a complete change of approach from the government to recognise that the potential for Hungary's growth lies in social benefits, employment and modernisation programmes, the development of science and research. But as long as the prestigious investments continue, here is the fact that next year, both the stadiums and the Castle and the City Park should be discussed as well, while the government could use this amount to alleviate social tensions. Overall, I have to say that this is the fourth budget you have presented. The poverty rate in Hungary has increased steadily over these four years [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why did they choose us again? Maybe not?]] ; social groups are becoming increasingly vulnerable, slowly organised into a class, while in the budget you do not express in their intention or content that you understand what society expects of you. Frankly, I would consider it a positive turn of events if at least they were not proud of what they were doing; they would at least show some humility to the real situation. I would very much like to hear, in the near future, budget slogans from the governing party in which we can hold a professional and substantive debate on the budget for combating poverty, on the budget for reducing social tensions or on the budget for the benefit of the people of Hungary. However, we must wait for this. At least? ideally? three of these budgetary debates still need to be carried out on an otherwise inadequate budget, in a sense not professionally competent and without prospects for the future. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that photography in this Chamber has been and will continue to be prohibited. I'm asking you to keep this. [[Nándor Gúr: We must confiscate it! ? Complaining from the benches of Fidesz: Pathetic!]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the other lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Sándor Burány. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Noise.]]
u2014-11-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If we look at government speeches either in the Chamber or outside the Chamber, then we see that everything is still in order, that there is a series of real victory reports for each government statement, and that only the prospects for next year are better. I would like to talk about what is the truth in contrast; what is the truth, even in relation to the government's own plans, but above all, what is the truth about the real state of the country and its real processes. Let's look at the government's own plans first. There is something to see, because in 2011 you prepared the so-called convergence programme in the framework of the Széll Kálmán plan, which included the most important government efforts and related figures for 2011-2015. Let us now compare, ladies and gentlemen, the ideas for 2015 according to two different government documents; let us look at what they have promised, what they have outlined in the convergence programme and what the budget bill for 2015 contains. Well, if we start with a government deficit, you'll see that next year this deficit target will be set at 1.5 percent. If we look at the deficit that you have in comparison with this, we can only see on this one line that you will spend some HUF 400 billion more than you have previously predicted in the convergence programme. If we look at government plans for the development of public debt, we see that, for 2015 the convergence programme promised that the ratio of government debt would not be more than 64.1 percent, compared to this, the submitted budget bill is already accounting for 75.4 percent; the reality is even worse, but later on. If we just look at the difference between your two different plans, we can say that the government debt is about HUF 3800 billion higher than what you have previously anticipated. They can't even keep their own plans in this area and in any other area. If we look at what was promised in terms of so-called special taxes, you promised at the beginning of 2011 that so-called special financial taxes would be reduced to HUF 90 billion by 2015; before that, these taxes were brutally increased. [[11.30]] Now, if we look at what they are counting on in the budget bill, there is no question of reducing these taxes. On the contrary, they expect some HUF 405 billion in revenue from these special financial taxes, taking more than HUF 310 billion out of the pocket of the financial sector than you yourself have, by the way, calculated a few years before. If we look at what has been promised in the area of various sectoral special taxes other than financial institutions, then we can see that it was fully desired by 2015? Otherwise, it is right to remove these sectoral special taxes. Unfortunately, they have no intention of making this promise come true, they will collect more than HUF 230 billion in the sector's special taxes next year. There's an area where we would have liked it if these plans hadn't been overachieved. This is a reduction in expenditure on pension and social expenditure. In the beginning, we were not pleased that you envisaged a reduction in these expenditures in the Convergence Programme, and we cannot be pleased that, unfortunately, this expenditure reduction will be exceeded in next year's budget bill. We have to say that the pension system and social expenditure are spending about 130 billion forints less than you promised before, and otherwise you cannot agree with that reduction. So, if we look at your recent plan numbers compared to your previous plans, you can still see that you are in a serious deficit compared to the promises you made. If we look at the actual economic processes, otherwise the problem is even bigger. What is currently happening in the economy is that there is an inflow of money, and there is also an outflow of capital. Instead of capital imports. Thus, the money that comes into the country will not be spent on investments, basically using this extra income for speculative purposes in the economy. What is necessary is that the existing capital stays here, thanks to your economic policy, unfortunately, it has started to leave the country. This is a very dangerous process, because, as you will soon see, foreign capital in some areas is the determining force of the economy, which should not be played out. If we look at the growth prospects for the economy, it can be concluded that this does not have domestic engines primarily, except for some large economic islands, but is based essentially on EU funds. The EU funds that the country desperately needs and the money that you are fighting for freedom from time to time comes from the Union? Thank God, just occasionally? and which we are members of the Union, its flag is simply unable to bear in the meeting room of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Nándor Gúr: Scandalous!]] If we look at the domestic sources of economic growth, economy and industrial performance other than EU funds, we can see that this is largely linked to car manufacturers. The creation of car factories, but the investments already made, are linked to previous governments and not to your governance. How much these economic islands play a major role in the country's blood flow can it be seen from the fact that this year's welcome economic growth, for example, plays a role in the fact that these car factories also work on weekends and when one of them is once one of them? Is this the Audi? It stopped for a few weeks, and immediately there was a very harsh decline in industrial production. If we look at the state of the economy, then what we see is that domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises are not the backbone and engine of the economy; the main sources of economic growth are mainly car manufacturers and EU funds. When we look at the possibility of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, we see that these businesses, unlike the nice words of government, are in distress. The main reason they are in distress is that despite the dramatic decline in consumption in recent years, despite modest increases in consumption in the country, your bill is far overestimating the impact of this increase in consumption. In fact, small entrepreneurs are in a double press. They are affected by the consequences of their economic policies, which have reduced consumption in previous years, and which are still barriers to consumption and, in particular, demand growth in Hungary. If we look at the sources of income of small businesses, then we see that they are in a press, because of the lack of growth in consumption and the lack of substance, small businesses cannot count on an additional source of income from the market side. Meanwhile, your tax policy is pushing them from the cost side to another press, because these small businesses are really unable to pass on the extra taxes imposed on them in substance, and they are forced to swallow this in some way, and government wage and tax policies are also predominantly responsible for small businesses employing workers mainly at minimum wage. In recent years, you have forced a drastic minimum wage increase for small entrepreneurs, from which the workers, who should have benefited from it, have seen almost nothing, since it has been taken away by tax increases, but this has led to a drastic increase in the tax burden on small entrepreneurs. Thus, there were no winners of this whole thing for small business workers, no winners for small businesses themselves. He was a winner in all of this, your government, who wiped out these tax revenues. Small businesses are therefore also under pressure from the cost side and, from the revenue side, from an increase in consumption that would drag them out of this dire situation, they cannot count on it. If we look at how investments are developing in Hungary, we can see that investments are mainly made from public and EU sources, the situation of businesses simply does not allow them to make a substantial contribution to increasing investment in Hungary themselves. This is accompanied by a weak forint, which will continue to be indisposed in the next year thanks to the policy of you and the Hungarian National Bank. And now, in the context of the weak forints, let's move on to public debt. All your efforts are to ensure that this public debt is in order on the one honorary day of the year. This is the last working day of each year, the government debt rules that you and otherwise have in Europe are looking at this day, the amount of public debt on this day, regardless of how this government debt develops on the other 364 days of the year. You were forced to play tricks last year to bring down public debt on this honoured day, so that at least on this one day it would be okay. Last year, you spent about 500 billion forints in various tricks for a few days. This year? 'Cause the government debt is, unfortunately, increasing? The other 364 days of the year will have to use about 900 billion dollars on the last working day of the year. And if this trend continues, next year, which is also included in the budget bill, they're going to need 1100-1200 billion, according to expert calculations, so that they can use different tricks to reduce the government debt to the level required by law for that one working day. So the economy thanks you very much, and you're sick. But society isn't well either. [[Zoltán Tessely: You're not well either.]] Mr President, it seems my fellow Members do not understand and need an interpreter. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] Please help them. Unfortunately, society is not okay, your policy is a kind of state-of-the-art paparazzi; a state-of-the-art paparazzi that builds and implements a pyramid in which those who are on top of this pyramid in terms of income and are in the best position are giving more and more to them. [[11.40]] And those who are at the bottom of this pyramid in terms of income are taking more and more. Instead of working on equality of opportunity, they therefore favour the top tenteen with each political decision. But it's not just the top ten thousand; it's also a circle of beneficiaries for your moonyard. Every bill, every state decision, is for the purpose, including tax laws and state regulations, so that your moonyard will benefit, so that, if necessary, they can weaken competitions and, in bad cases, eliminate competitors. This lunar yard has ample access to EU funds and public goods, but everyone else is moaning about additional taxes. In fact, it is not far from you that those who are considered as opponents should be subject to additional taxes, penalty taxes, as some TV companies have shown. Ladies and gentlemen. This budget is an impoverished social budget and a worldview where you and your buddies benefit, and everyone else moans about you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] the burden of governance in the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-19-16	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear Parliament, The budget, I think, is the most important law that Parliament can negotiate in a given year. I have something to say in advance, but speaking after socialist keynote speakers, one cannot do that without responding to the allegations that we have heard. Congressman Burány says thank you very much, the economy is unwell. We remember the economy when GDP decreased by 7 percent in the context of your blessed operation. This GDP is now expected to increase by 3.4 percent this year. In this situation, the gentleman before me says that the economy is thanking you very much, that he is ill. It could be in a much better condition if we didn't have to raise the economy from the very deep point where you put it. [[Zoltán Lukács: More pig farms!]] I see that the socialists are still having symbolic debates with us during the debate on the fiscal law. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's what we are!]] I am convinced that the most serious aspect of the speech by the Socialists was not done here on the pulpit, but when two Members brought two flags to the other many flags, and then the hall guards removed it. Even during a budget debate, they have symbolic debates rather than wanting to talk about substantive issues at a time like this. They're having a national death visit, but they know there were only three choices in this country, and your thinking has been measured by the voters, and you've been rejected three times in a fairly large proportion, two-thirds. Because when we talk about a budget, even though you want to talk about symbolic issues, these issues that we are talking about here are understood by the electorate. It may be that this complicated law, a massive law, does not affect the entire context of the electorate, but many substantive questions are understood by every voter. You understand these cases even if you try to misinformed them. The best example of this was Mr Tobias's speech about the cafeteria. We've passed the tax laws. It is clear to all of us that the rule system of cafeteria does not change in any way. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Almost!]] And here we have heard from Congressman Tobias that we are disrupting this system. That's why I'm telling television viewers here that the only change is that the few who have reached 50,000 forints less cafeteria than 500 thousand forints. 200,000 forints? Is that the category of a good part of the workers, of the public servants? Nothing changes in the cafeteria supply. Above it, companies can turn the cafeteria system into a SZÉP card for employees. What was the government trying to tell us? Let us also be very clear about this. The government's long effort is not to give the employees tickets, so I can understand the cafetheria, but to pay the rent. That is why we are making signs that we want to see more and more wages in people's pockets. This may have been a quick step that the government was originally determined to take when it wanted to change this system, but we are not doing it, so I can tell the television viewers and you, ladies and gentlemen, that the cafeteria system does not change in any way. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Almost!]] The following year. Let us then turn to the bill before us, which I have already stated is the most important law that Parliament can negotiate in a given year. Why do I consider it the most important, recognising the importance of many other laws? Because I think that such a law shows the social policy philosophy of the government, here the government confirms that what it has been empowered by voters wants to do by means of budgetary means. In other words, I could also say that the fiscal law shows the transfers that the State is obviously planning to make between the different income owners who have incomes with political goals, between the state as income owner, companies as income owners and individuals as income owners. But perhaps, by looking at these issues in another section, they can shed even more light on the government's intention to look at the transfer of income between different social groups through the use of tax laws and aid policy in a fiscal law. I will examine in my speeches how the most exciting social groups, middle layers, pensioners or those in difficulty will be assessed in the next year's budget. Before these discussions take place, I must state in advance that the State Audit Office has also examined whether the Finance Act complies with the Fundamental Law, whether it complies with the Public Finance Act, the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary, and even with the Law No 549/2013. The EC Regulation, too. The State Audit Office has found that it complies with these rules. This is important, and I am referring here only to the Fundamental Law, because, since we have adopted our Fundamental Law, we know that this has a massive public financial chapter, we have put the debt braking system in the Fundamental Law, we also want to stop the country's indebtedness, the debt that the Socialists have created during their governance, and the management of this indebtedness is one of the most important issues of fate in the coming period. Speaking of this EU regulation, I should like to say to you that in the context of the deficit, in relation to debt math, this EU regulation is introducing a new set of rules for the calculation of GDP data. In keeping with all of this, it is true that our public debt will be 76.5 per cent of GDP in 2014, and we plan to further decrease by 0.9 percentage points at the end of 2015, i.e. 75.4 per cent. Yes, at the end of the year, as Mr Burány spoke about this for a long time, because obviously the end of the year is the day when these indicators must be measured in all European statistical systems. This is a modest but very important reduction in public debt. It should be mentioned again that we should have a point of reference that the public debt was still 82 percent due to your blessed operation. So that's where you're from. [[Sándor Burány: 84!]] We've taken out this sovereign debt. The State Audit Office, when carrying out its evaluation, is also concerned with and reassures us this year about the fulfilment of revenue and expenditure appropriations, and is more precisely about how well it considers these appropriations to be justified. [[11.50]] I read from the State Audit Office's report that 71.9 percent of the revenue side is completely justified, 26,9 percent is partially justified and only 1.2 percent is classified as unsubstantiated. I'm reading even more encouraging numbers on the expense page. 93.38 percent of expenditure is well-founded, 6.5 percent is partly well-founded, and what you don't think is justified is 0.04 percent. This tells me that the budget is on a realistic footing, well-designed, and fits into the budgetary thinking that the government has been unbroken since 2010. I think it is also worth looking at the moment, the current moment, how the economy is in 2014 and how we can think about the economy at present, because we are a few months ahead of the end of the year, and the current outlook for the economy clearly already basically defines next year's opportunities for movement, on which this budget should build. If I look at the current situation, it is obvious that the system of numbers published here recently gives us an accurate reflection of how the Hungarian economy performs in the third quarter. 3.2 percent in the third quarter is the growth of the Hungarian economy. This growth is still very fair in European comparison, because we are in the third place in the European Union. I note that most analysts predicted a 2.9 percent increase in the third quarter, whereas there is a 3.2 percent increase in today's economy. In addition to the construction industry, the tertiary sector, i.e. the service sector, is drawing on growth. This cannot be assessed otherwise, because the latter is the welcome one, because we already knew that the car industry was performing, thanks to God that agriculture ran a good year last year, and it did well again this year, we also hope to see it, but that the service sector produces more is a real, pleasant surprise for us. This means that the service sector can grow in our view because the population spends more, orders more services. This can only be done if there is more income in the hands of families, more employment, more employees spend more, and I could even say that perhaps their delayed consumption is now being bought by families. The joint assessment of this says to me that the internal structure of the 3.2 percent increase is therefore healthier, and this gives rise to optimism. If I look at the goals of the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian government, through its budgets, since 2010, we should mention the primary objective of increasing the number of employees in every way, increasing the competitiveness of the country, reducing public debt, and reducing it under the Fundamental Law, and keeping the budget deficit below 3 percent in every way. This has been achieved by the fact that we have started various structural changes, continued this year, and will continue these structural changes in the coming period. We've transformed the tax system. You guys whip this tax system a lot. I consider it valuable that we have reduced the personal income tax burden, introduced a single-key tax system, which encourages work and performance, and, at the same time, obviously increased consumption-type taxes to replace tax revenues. We've remodeled our pension system. Today, the country's budget is managed with a pension fund that guarantees the payment of pensions, unlike the period when the socialists were ruling. We have made transformations in the education and administration system, and as a result of all of this, we have achieved that by June 2013 we have been out of the scope of the excessive deficit procedure, where we have been since 2004, not to the greatest glory of Hungary. The financial markets also appreciate the activity that the Hungarian government has achieved with fiscal policy, as I can say today that sovereign debt yields have fallen to a record low level, our balance of payments is persistently positive, and as a result we are able to show the growth level that I have already said to you, which is expected to be 3.2 percent this year. To what macro numbers does the government predict next year's budget? Obviously, we cannot maintain this 3.2 percent growth level. We are forecasting the growth of the economy to 2.5 percent in 2015. We need to take note of the stepless realities that represent the situation of the European Union. The European Union is barely growing or stagnating. There is the Russian-Ukrainian crisis, which causes a lot of problems for Central and Eastern Europe. As a result, this is certain to be seen in Hungarian growth, but once again, the 2.5 percent that the budget is calibrated to is far above the average growth in the European Union. As we have so far worked unbrokenly to keep the deficit below 3 per cent, this is reflected in the 2015 budget. Deficit is planned at 2.4 percent. Government debt is projected to 75,4 percent in proportion to GDP, as I said. It is important to increase employment. In 2015 we plan to work with 260 thousand more people than at the beginning of the crisis period. It is also a very important indicator to calculate the budget, and this is an increase in household consumption. That's 2.6 percent next year. This increase in consumption comes from many things. I'm just gonna mention a few. It is a pleasure to raise the wages of teachers unbrokenly. This will take place in 2015 and in the following year. A career for law enforcement workers will be launched in 2015. In our 2,6 per cent growth plans, the measures we have taken or are doing in relation to foreign exchange lenders are very important, because the savings that foreign exchange lenders thus achieve will obviously be realised in the growth of consumption. Compared to almost zero percent inflation this year, we planned next year with 1.8 percent inflation. What, in my view, is the emphasis on next year's budget? My first statement is that the budget provides a stable financial framework for the management of the country's income owners, and it also represents a predictable future for them in this respect. I can say that in this budget, our claim that we turn to families with the greatest emphasis is certainly true, and that families are the first. I consider it valuable that we continue to take and maintain the family tax system, which, in comparison with European standards, provides unprecedented support for families' livelihoods and encourages childbearing. We have taken a lot of steps in this area, so think of the tax incentives granted to the three children. Later, we expanded the system by seeing that small-income people are unable to benefit from family tax relief, so we extended it, besides paying taxes, families with such a difficult fate can also write down their share of the family tax relief from contributions. [[12.00]] We've introduced the ged extra, and we'll continue to do so. In order to encourage marriages, we provide a tax reduction of 120 thousand HUF for the first couple for two years. And what I think is very important: from 2016 onwards, we will increase the benefit of families with two children by HUF 2 thousand per year for several years. Overall, this represents HUF 240 billion in family support for such families. As a result of the clearing of banks, the fair banking system and the forinting will result in a completely different banking system than we have faced or are struggling with so far, and as a result of the entire settlement, an additional HUF 1000-1100 billion will be returned to Hungarian families, which will be realised again in consumption and in the growth of consumption. We will continue the reduction of the rent, which could be seen as a great result of 2014 and will continue in 2015. The reduced tariffs will continue to work in 2015. In 2015, we will continue and extend the usual system of action plans for job protection in 2014, because employers also have the benefits of part-time employment, which were only characteristic of full-time employment in the past. A lot of people wanted it, a lot of people wanted it, so I'm happy to tell the public that we're introducing a new home support system, bringing it back? Have the budget makers found a very soundy name for this? I would also say that the family home-building discount, called the bouquet, will affect many people; I hope that the kiss will hit many times in the 2015 budget, and will provide support for many young people in the home-building process, will apply to single children, or to one child-takers, even if they want to buy a second-hand apartment. I think it is very important that, in the interest of law enforcement workers, their career starts with HUF 44 billion of budget money, and in the case of teachers, this continues until 2017. The modest system of e-wage increases goes on in 2015, the most serious area is the growth of supplies for general practitioners in 2015 by HUF 10 billion and another HUF 10 billion in 2016. I think it is important for the Prime Minister's speech yesterday, the day before yesterday, where he suspected the introduction of such a career model, likely the entire social sphere, and I know that public service workers are waiting for one of these, and we hope that this will increase in 2016. We plan to increase pensions by 1.8 percent, as we have already done in terms of inflation, so we plan to do in the future. I can say that, as we have preserved the increase in real value of pensions in our four-year governance so far, this will continue to happen in the future. This is valuable, knowing that pensions have also fallen during the period of socialist governance. Instead of aid, we want to give everyone who needs it a job. So it is not true that the socialist approach is that we want to reduce the aid system in a self-serving way, and we want to reduce the amount that can be spent on it. The truth is, however, that aid is only reduced to the extent that we can increase employment. We regard public work as a value until the market produces real jobs, and the state must improve the situation of such poor, difficult families through the organisation of public works. 200,000 public workers have already worked in the country, and the 2015 budget allocates 270 billion public funds to this area, which is 35 billion more than we have ever spent. I think it is important that Hungary's biggest economic development starts in 2015, and we will be able to use 12 000 billion resources to develop the Hungarian economy in the next seven-year budget cycle of the European Union. I say that for the development of the Hungarian economy, because the government is determined to devote 60% of these amounts to the development of the Hungarian economy. In comparison, this was only 17 per cent in the EU budget cycle that has now expired or now expired. In the EU's comparison per capita, we are second in terms of usable resources per capita. The year 2015 in this system is also very important, because according to EU rules, the funds not yet used in 2013 will be used for another two years, this is the n+2 rule, this is the year 2015 when we will use funds from the previous cycle, but the sources of the new budgetary period will be opened to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and other users. This large-scale economic development plan can be successfully implemented if we ensure this targeted and simpler use of resources for those concerned, the unruly bureaucracy that marked the use of EU funds, will be reduced by the government in order to ensure that payments can be made on schedule. A budget always calculates uncertain factors, so it creates reserves. There is a 60 billion-dollar National Defence Fund in the budget and 100 billion forints is available for extraordinary government measures, and there is also a 60 billion-dollar provision to address financial difficulties, especially in relation to budgetary institutions. So I think that the government reserves in a forward-looking way, with careful planning, with appropriate amounts, so I think that the 2015 budget year can and will also be safely started and achieved in this respect. The investment fund is subject to many criticisms by the socialists, which is simply perceived as a stadium construction. It also appears, in my view, correctly, but the essence of the investment fund is that the state's assets, which is obviously not a static asset, but the state's sales, buys other assets, treats the investment fund as a fund to replace the assets sold by other assets in order to ensure that the state's assets are not reduced in total, but increased. I think it's the right thing to do. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about the budgetary situation affecting municipalities in 2015. We are past a debt settlement in relation to the municipalities, and I would also say that the local governments are being put on a new path by the municipal law, which the municipalities do not yet fully perceive or want to perceive. This new course is that the basic task of the municipalities is not to run the institution in the future, but to provide public services in the given municipalities, and behind the public services we obviously see children, families and families living in the territory of the municipalities and using public services. We want to provide these with better conditions by providing more resources for the institutional circle that remains and remains in the local government world in the longer term, the kindergarten system and the cradle care system. There will also be more money for catering and cradle seats. Forint 690 billion is the budget support that municipalities will receive through the budget register. [[12.10]] With regard to the municipalities, I would like to take the moment here and ask my fellow Members that we want to put in place an area that we have completely ruined. This means paying the mayor and the congressmen. People who live or live in small settlements, I think I'm like that, I'm like that, I've been mayor of small settlements, I can tell you what a small town mayor's job is. I accept the government's intention that it is appropriate for the mayor, in a small settlement, to speak about the smallest settlements, to hold this post in a social capacity. Obviously, there can be exceptions per settlement, but the goal is acceptable. But it is not acceptable that a mayor for this activity, which is a very diverse activity, does not earn more than if he does community service; he is, by the way, the government's number one partner in managing public workers when he is involved in public employment in this respect. It is necessary to consider whether an external deputy mayor is needed in a small settlement. There was no need for it when we left, but we also introduced this system in small settlements. In some places, foolishly, they live or abuse it. At the time when the mayors' wages were reduced, of course the very small mayors, we increased the deputy mayors' wages and released the Members' wages. Do I read about Zuglo today? In Zuglo, honourable Member, do I look at you in Zuglo? Where there is an opposition mayor, a municipal representative earns 500,000 forints. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame. ? Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame, shame.]] These are not normal things, and we have to face it, because we have ruined it; perhaps the government side in the first place. Help us to regulate and redefine this situation in a meaningful way. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches. ? György Szilágyi: There is a coalition.]]
u2014-11-19-18	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that three speakers presented the group's position within a total of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner. You have the floor.
u2014-11-19-19	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik described this draft budget law before us as the old cutbacks and the budget for new taxes, which the government would like to adopt by 2015. As we have seen, there were seven socialist austerity packages during the eight government years of the socialists. When we ask the government which socialist austerity package has been repealed so far, there is nothing the government can mention about a single austerity package that has been repealed by the socialists. Compared to this, businesses have grown steadily, and the tax burden of individuals has increased in Hungary in recent years. For example, businesses are forced to pay seven new taxes compared to 2010; this means that Fidesz representatives are talking about simplifying the tax system and facilitating the tax burden on businesses. Since then, businesses have been forced to pay seven new taxes. This draft budget now describes us with the concept of municipal tax, which is an extremely dangerous tax, since it is not defined precisely what conditions and rates may be imposed on the municipal tax. That could be practically anything. If a settlement gets into trouble, they will tax the people who live there well. The question is, let's say that the fault of running the settlement is the fault of the people who live there. You created such a law. Unfortunately. It is also important to look at the real purpose of the budget. The government's only goal is to meet the budget deficit, to have a low budget deficit, but whether they know the examples of it, because I can list a number of them that a country has a low budget deficit, and that it suffers from poverty, often even hunger. There are a lot of these states in the world. The main aim of the budget is not to have a low budget deficit! The main objective of this budget is to contribute to the growth of the common good, to manage it in a sustainable manner, and to ensure the country's management. This criterion is not met by this budget. When my fellow pro-government Members are very proud to show themselves here in Parliament how good it is for Hungary, because in the European Union, Hungary is able to draw the second most money per capita, in terms of population numbers, what are they bragging about? My fellow Members, Hungary's poverty certificate! The European Union is allocating its various regional aids on the basis of how poor a region is. In Europe, rich states are contributors to the EU budget, to the poorer states, and when you talk about us getting the second most money in Europe, this is due to the fact that we are the second poorest state in the European Union community. [[Interview from Fidesz: That's not true.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I'm afraid that's where we're at right now. Four of the seven geographical regions in Hungary belong to one of the 20 poorest regions in Europe. Think about it. Two thirds of the Hungarian territory is one of Hungary's poorest regions and Europe's poorest regions. The Bulgarians or Romanians are a hair worse than this, where five or five regions are among the poorest. According to the recent statistical report of the European Union, a third of the population lives below the Hungarian poverty threshold, and 33.5 percent of the Hungarian population belongs to it. If I were to look at the level of poverty in Western Europe, it would certainly be in this area, ladies and gentlemen, on the day of the two-thirds, not the day of the elections. It is also worth seeing how the state distorts the economy in this way and how different budgetary rates change. It is worth looking at, for example, I have done it, I have examined what percentage of budget revenues account for GDP. Interestingly, the following data can be found. Between 2000 and 2004, only 43.2 percent of the goods produced in Hungary were withdrawn from the budget, and once again 43.2 percent, 47.6 percent in 2013, and this rate continues to increase with the adoption of the 2015 budget. So you can see that the state's hunger for money is growing, and the state needs more and more money to support this otherwise increasingly degenerating public sector at all. It is worth seeing that the state spends HUF 2633.4 billion on its own operating expenses next year, which is a significant increase in terms of last year's plans and the agreed budget. So unfortunately, the government's operating expenses are increasing. It is also interesting when we talk about the development of public debt. The government can channel the HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds, forced to nationalise the government, which will disappear virtually without a trace on the altar of debt reduction, this money will be burned by the country for the past four years without a trace. Compared to this, we are currently talking about the same debt-to-GDP ratio in Hungary as in the end of the first quarter of 2010, when the socialists were beaten by Fidesz in the elections in April. Thus, the level of public debt appears to have remained stable despite the government's pledges. It is also worth considering when it comes to the government's exposé that the cost of bureaucracy in Hungary will be reduced, what exactly this means. On the one hand, we have the number, the budget's operating expenditure is increasing, the state is spending more on itself, and on the other hand, the process called state reform has not actually started, at least not within a planned framework, which the government has planned to implement. It is not possible to know how many people and exactly what public tasks they will perform in the future. The government started these transformations without having a long-term concept about it at all. It is also worth looking at the preliminary vows and the facts that have been fulfilled in employment policy. If you look at what Fidesz has promised in its 2010 election programme, you can see that 1 million new jobs are created by businesses. [[12.20]] Instead, we see that we are becoming a country of public workers, and that the government will spend 35 billion more of other people's tax payments on public workers' wages. Next year, we will be spending 270 billion forints on public workers' wages, while very few of them are doing valuable production work, simply because the government does not have a long-term concept. If we look at the issue of tax burdens when employment develops, we can also see that there is a brutal rise in tax burdens for benefits other than wages, making the tax system unpredictable in this way. It is not possible to know what the future will be if a foreign company or a domestic company invests in Hungary, because every year the government increases taxes, changes the tax burden on businesses, and in the wrong direction. It is also important to say that the Hungarian economy has been overtaxed for a long time. It's worth checking out. There's no 27 percent VAT anywhere in the world. Hungarian private people are forced to pay the highest VAT burden in the world. This tax is, however, a hotbed for the black economy. Obviously, if Hungary applies a significantly higher turnover tax in its own tax system than other EU countries, they will try to avoid the Hungarian tax system, and there will be more and more tax fraud companies, which will take advantage of the tax differential between other states and Hungary. As a result, not only could the Hungarian State account for an increase in fiscal revenue, but tax revenues are falling directly. It is also a rebuttal thing that if we think about Hungary's long-term future: what would it take for the Hungarian economy to grow in a sustainable way by increasing the standard of living for people? We need to base economic growth on a multitude of educated heads. If we look at the facts that have been achieved in education, what we can see: our economic performance has spent 5.52% of the 2010 Budget Act on education, this will decrease to 4.7 percent of GDP in the 2015 budget. So it can be seen that Hungary is not thinking about the educated people in this area, and the government can be proven to withdraw money from education at the level of numbers. Unfortunately, this is the future that the Orbán government has intended for Hungary with this budget. Of course, Jobbik will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP, another lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The budget we are discussing now corresponds to the macro-economic path that the European Commission has set out for the Member States, including Hungary, and Hungary has accepted this. This process is the so-called European Semester, when, after the submission of the convergence programme, the European Commission consults the country, sets the expectations, and basically puts the figures that determine it here. The Hungarian Parliament does not have the possibility of contributing to this, nor does it have any substantial information, which already undermines the Hungarian Parliament's right to make a budget. As far as financial relations are concerned, Hungary expects an EU resource of HUF 1262 billion in the national strategic reference framework. Of course, Jobbik also says that these resources are very important for development, but we must be careful not to leak hand-to-hand, and indeed the government must fulfil its commitment to make a decisive contribution to the development of the economy and to the development of SMEs. Let us ask the question: is this the source of Brussels' benefit? Should we be grateful for it? Well, yeah. We know that the direct financial salvo is positive. But we must pay attention to the whole complex economic balance of our accession, including that since the end of 1991, the conclusion, announcement and signature of the Association Treaty, everything has been in the interest of accession: privatisation, deregulation, liberalisation, the elimination of Hungarian industry, job losses. Economists describe this process as a transformational loss. If we take this into account, it's clear that our scales are negative. So this source is important, but it's damage control. In a regional outlook, we can see that the differences between the former socialist countries and the European Union's central countries have increased in the previous seven-year cycle, and the gap has increased, despite the fact that the central countries have taken advantage of the devalued natural and human resources of this region. Is the European Union's budget falling by 4.5 percent in real terms in the new budget cycle? Hasn't that ever happened before? In particular, cohesion funds are falling by 8.4 percent. It is therefore out of the question that these countries would be invited to the European Parliament's salon. No, we're in the servants' room. If we look at the previous budgets of the Fidesz governments and the current ones, of course, we can see a number of positive aspects of the MSZP governments, especially in the area of family policy. But the frame, the base, the stocks are unchanged. In 1999, Gyula Tellér, who held a high government position in the first government, published a study entitled The Deep Structure of Horn Politics, in which he made it clear why it was not possible to reproduce human resources in the Hungarian national economy. He spoke of usury rings, mentioning in the first place the foreign capital that improves the balance when it comes in, but in later years, with the exception of profit and interest, it acts as a cash pump. The other one called the debt service a loan shark circle, and the third one called the information power forming opinions as a supporter. Dear Parliament, These pumps are still working. The foreign capital that builds assembly plants here is competitiveness by cheap Hungarian labour force. What did Prime Minister Viktor Orbán say in Saudi Arabia? You said it was worth investing here? Literally, I quote? Because the Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is flexible. That's why you come here. There is no need to pay the labour force, and there are no such protections as in Western European countries. What if it's not a colonial offer to the investor? And where are we with the debt service? I'm telling you facts. Taking into account the debt you have hoped for by 2015, the debt is HUF 5104 billion higher than in April 2010, which is 26.4 percent. The annual interest rate for this is HUF 1200 billion in 2015. And that magic percentage compared to GDP? We got to know the third quarter data these days: 83 percent, and you said in the Széll Kálmán plan that it will be 67 percent in 2014. The media is full of production eulogy reports, as in the 1950s, about the third quarter of GDP compared to other countries, and, of course, employment statistics. But statistics on people's livelihoods are being withheld. I have in my hand the 2014 GfK international market research organisation's data on the most important, the livelihood, the average purchasing power, how much a citizen in Europe can spend on average. In this Hungary is 31st place with 37.7 percent of the average, not in the EU, all over Europe, where Moldova closes the line. Compared to Hungary, a Slovak person can spend 53 percent more, a Czech 42 percent, a Polish 25 percent, to mention only the Visegrád countries. All of this indicates that this budget will not break out of this at all. You like to use clever terms, you say it's a budget for reducing costs, and now you're saying it's a budget for accounting banks. We, on the other hand, must sadly conclude that this budget remains the budget of a colonial country in a colonial situation, which is accepted by this government. Jobbik's representatives will reject the underlying budgets both in the European Parliament and in this Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[12.30]]
u2014-11-19-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the next lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-19-23	Mr President, Dear House, Although the government seems to boast that Hungary is among Europe's highly performing economies and that it has entered a path called sustainable development, we believe that a budget debate would be sensible if we could talk about increasing the size of the common cake, not how social groups and classes will fight over the ever shrinking slices and crumbs. If we look at why these slices of cake are decreasing more and more, we can see that in 2010 the Orbán government took over governance with some 34 tax types, by 2014, by the beginning of the new election cycle 41 types of tax can be established, and now we are moving strongly towards 45, and then, obviously, 50 is not excluded in this cycle. So in an incredibly overtaxed economic structure, through the incredible exploitation of citizens, it is very difficult to paint a picture of long-term economic development. Moreover, the author of the bill, Mihály Varga, does not look forward to the following years, as he did last year, even though he would have been obliged to do so in accordance with the Public Finance Act itself, and I quote: the government should present, together with a justification, the framework figures for the planned appropriations for the three years following the budget year. Last year, we had these, and for some reason this year we didn't. It is clear that temporary effects can spin the so-called GDP, which is not a good indicator, which, when EU funds spin and economic cycles are completed, can bring very difficult times over the next one or two years, and with a slight exaggeration, we can also say that if the Audi in Győr sends 11,000 employees, say in the summer, then the Hungarian economy's quarterly growth rate will literally stop. While the world has started to build up the economy in service sectors, in Hungary about 10 percent of the so-called GDP is always accounted for by car manufacturing, so we are doomed to a working, assembly and colonial status. Everyone would have expected, in a justified way, that the current government or its predecessor, the regent from 2010, would try to change that. What happened to that? You signed 48 strategic agreements. But with who? With the Hungarian citizens who were saved, say, from bank abuse? No. Or could the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, who had access to preferential loans, have, where appropriate, been able to increase the number of their employees or their opportunities? Again, the answer is no. The 48 strategic contracts were almost exclusively concluded with multinational companies with the share of so-called job creation and other subsidies provided by this government 4-6 times what an average Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise can obtain. So you can see that there are incredible imbalances in the system, but if you look at that indicator, GDP? which, by the way, increases when more people find themselves dead and the turnover of funeral homes is temporarily increasing, so it is not certain that this is an indicator of quality of life in all respects? , then we can say that in terms of GDP per capita, the Czech Republic, Slovenia have been ahead of us, but in recent years Slovakia, Poland, Estonia have also beaten us, and we do not measure ourselves to Austria, because they have twice as much specific GDP as ours. Some domestic research institutes at the same time? And not by the way? Do they consider an increase of up to 2 percent to be realistic, as it can be seen that our investment rate, which is now temporarily increasing thanks to the roll-out of EU funds, is still very far from that level of 25 percent? and should the investment rate be increased to 25 per cent of GDP? If it survives permanently, we could break out of quarantine in the region. But there are no traces of this, and there are even freezing effects in this budget, with which the statements of either the Minister of National Economy or other pro-government representatives on economic development are simply unappreciated. The government debt, if you look at only the nominal part, was HUF 20 041 billion in 2010 with repo operations? Are we quoting the data from the SGC? , for the financial year 2014 ANNEX II According to quarterly MNB data, it is HUF 25 432 billion. Talking about the fight against government debt in these circumstances is not just ridiculous, it's just pathetic! You can see that this is what he called a fight, something that the government failed at the very beginning. It can also be seen that the freezing effects of the budget are not only due to the interest burden of the government debt of the size of 1200 billion, but also to the increasing pressure to replace a certain social register. This can now be estimated at only a hundred billion, but according to moderate economic analysts, in a ten-year, decade-long perspective, the pressure to replace the social register by the state could also take place, and let us think about the need to replace the pension system, which could also rise to a thousand billion-dollar scale. So these two crippling effects will be applied at the same time in relation to the Hungarian budget where, on the revenue side, it is not possible to produce results, to say the least. The introduction of earlier restrictions, as mentioned above, was completely cancelled. However, it can also be seen that even relatively less negative and gestureal effects had no energy and attention to the government, such as those promised in the 2010 election campaign. KDNP talked a lot about family bankruptcy protection, in addition to Jobbik, and we spoke about it quite rightly, and a number of political forces brought this into the discourse space. But if four and a half years, two thirds of the time, were not enough for the introduction of family bankruptcy, private bankruptcy, then there is strong suspicion that there is no intention of doing so in the current governing parties, even though it would be possible to provide very serious assistance to those in the most difficult situation in this way and thus. It can also be seen that the so-called foreign exchange loan has been perfectly measured, screwed up, delayed and betrayed, the failure to help victims has caused damage, loss in thousands of billions, and a dehydrated economic structure, where 2-3 percent of gross domestic product is still spent on annual repayments, which leads to an impossible economic situation at a further market price or planned forinting around it. What does the government say? Legalizes the robbery. It makes it legal that unwarranted banks and financial institutions have taken a thousand billion-dollar resource away from people, and it does not settle this by HUFing at the exchange rate at the time of admission, but by legalising that this difference will be swallowed up at the market rate by the financial institutions concerned. It's amazing, it's an impertinent solution, and it's obvious that it's the result of a pact between the government and the banks. The banking association was, of course, discussed with the injured before their every move, even when they were here in the Chamber at the invitation of Jobbik and looked for you; they were not praised. We could also talk about the fact that since 2008, certain elements of the family support system have been frozen, but we also need to talk about the fact that the result of so-called foreign currency lending and other economic problems, unsolved home creation opportunities, is simply not solved. They do not realize that an average Hungarian youth will make an average payment according to the KSH, if he would give his head to a single home, a flat, not a door to a house, then he will do a head count and find that he will not have the opportunity to do so in Hungary for 20 years. And socpol-type sub-options and other solutions do not help much either, as those who do not have 16 million forints for an apartment will probably not have 13.5. At the same time, in addition to bank rescue packages, is there still a lack of such a solution? besides the existence of bank rescue packages? , which would provide Hungarian young people with a public home-building and rental-building programme, would enable them to slow down the emigration spiral, improving the willingness to have children, and even breathing life into some 4-5 Hungarian economic sectors. Jobbik's experts calculated that half of the funds set aside for so-called integration goals by 2020 could start a programme at national level that could provide predictable opportunities and opportunities for all Hungarian young people to stay in Hungary. Do we also need to see that Hungary has been the 29th richest if we look at it systemically for a decade? It was considered to be the richest country in the world, and according to the GNI indicator of GDP in this area, only the Czech Republic and Slovenia preceded us in this region. By 2013, we have moved back to the 70th place in your regency, and from our region we have Slovakia, Poland, Croatia and even the Baltic countries. It is an important deficiency that the proposal does not mention a word about the harmony of economics and ecology, the so-called eco-social market economy, but the government is unable to prepare the register or inventory of assets promised in 2010, without which we do not know whether we have the family silver we have, what wealth is available for the country, what can be done with it, how to protect it, from whom it should be protected and who is responsible for its possible squandering. [[12.40]] We also have to say that the enormously high level of 400 billion dollars, which can be aggregated among the financial special taxes, which appears here, simply affects Hungarian citizens, Hungarian clients and the Hungarian credit-damaged ones. We must say that until the government stops passing on these values, Hungarian citizens, Hungarian clients and Hungarian credit victims continue to betray themselves. What is most painful, however, is that although there is a partial result and a shift in Hungary's main problem, which has not been achieved so far in terms of population loss and systemic change in demographic processes. A comprehensive home-building and rental-building programme could also help this. So we can support any kind of fiscal modification, improvement proposal, trend, if it can help in substance the most important problem in Hungary, the loss of population, and it can substantially mitigate its harmful effects, and finally reverse these very harmful processes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Schmuck Erzsébet, lead speaker of the LMP Group, is now taking part. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-19-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We have probably received another budget proposal for 2015, which was discussed by Minister Mihály Varga and my fellow pro-government Members, because we are reading something else from this proposal. The budget numbers in black indicate the way the government is going. It turns out that from where the budget is taken, from whom it is taken, and what it considers to be worthy of support There is nothing more honest about a government's values and real social policy than budget lines. By reading the draft budget for next year, we get a sad and worrying picture. I'll start with some typical examples. The stadium construction program continues with at least 64 billion HUF in 2015. The Prime Minister's main concern is to move to the Castle for 5 billion, while future investment will be reduced to human capital or sustainable technologies. The public work programme is slowing down by 50 billion, which is not meant to increase the wages of people working under a minimum wage, so that they can experience decent conditions, but that more people are put into this situation, while training grants that could lead to a reduction of 23 billion, could be a long-term solution for people. Serious tens of billions go to the recapitalisation of public companies. They started a country crippled by thousands of billion-dollar Paks II. project while small businesses are drowning. The government's way? Can you tell by this? distance from sustainability, lack of investment in the future. The cuts in recent years have been cemented, more than 200 billion education has been withdrawn in recent years, but funding for health, social care and environmental protection has also been reduced. Entrapment of restrictions means that the foundations that guarantee the long-term development of our country, which means that human capital, knowledge and health will be destroyed. There is no economic development programme that can succeed on such a basis. Without raising capital at home, we are inopportune, and this accumulation of capital should primarily take place in human and environmental funds. Thus, the thousands of billions of EU funds, which increase investment for a period of time, can fatten some circles, but the impact is not lasting. Even because our economic structure has not improved, the income outflow has not decreased, Fidesz itself is involved in offshore transactions in an adventurous way. The introduction of restrictions has tragic consequences in the field of education. There was no country on earth that could have broken out of its peripheral position without abundant mineral resources without massively investing almost all free resources in education. The current government is on the opposite path, drawing funds from education. Our break is guaranteed. This budget does not reveal what the government is planning to do to stop the greatest threat, the social disaster. The society is breaking apart, millions slipping and slipping below the poverty line. This budget, unlike the government's propaganda, is essentially doing nothing to stop this process. But the more you do, the more you get into the vicious circle of poverty, the more you don't get out of it. Although the government does not have a stated vision beyond the fact that it wants to nationalise everything and that someone should always benefit, these processes are still in the same direction. The image of a assembly country with a low-skilled workforce is drawn, where a narrow layer is lurking, without large masses. Social mobility has ceased, the only way out is to emigration, which is already on a frightening scale. But it's not better for those who still stand up and want to step one by one, not to give up God, to start a family or to grow a family. Every year the middle class, thinner and more disappointed, whose small and medium-sized enterprises are supposed to boost the economy, can expect little good in 2015. You'll be disappointed if you want to give your children a useful education. This budget does not hold much good for anyone who rightly expects quality public services for their tax forints. Public administration is becoming more expensive and more efficient. There's a reason why more and more people see the structure of the opaque, overcomplicated and loophole-enriched system is not a coincidence. You can hear not only from experts, but also from everyday conversations, that the whole purpose of the system is to be a hotbed of corruption. The black and grey economy is not a modern development in Hungary. The Orbán government was ready to inherit certain structures in 2010, but instead of eliminating them as promised, it has been improving them in its own moonyard interests ever since. Next year's budget will give up the Hungarian countryside, especially in small settlements, but from farms to county seats it is true that health care, education problems and weaknesses in the social care system are even more evident. The deterioration of human and environmental resources continues, and as a result, depopulation and slippage can be covered. All in all, we can say that this year's budget is just like the last four years, a tangled mix of neoliberal economic policy that has torn the country apart and the construction of new feudalism. We can expect just as much from him as from the Fidesz's previous budget. We continue to divide society into a few hundred thousand rich and millions poor. Our environmental values will continue to be consumed and sold out, the support of multi-enterprises and the grip of small businesses will continue. The neoliberal amok run wrapped in national glaze continues. One thing is certain: we need a radical turnaround. After the summary picture, let's look at some details of what is typical of the government's draft and what the LMP suggests instead. Revenue side: the budget is based on tax maximization, taxing everything that cannot hide from the government's eyes. VAT remains high, 27 percent, and also in areas such as basic food, where it is important not only to reduce it socially, but also to reduce tax fraud. [[12.50]] It's a release page. This is characterised by uncontrolled spending. We need to highlight a few items that show the government's faulty path as litmus paper, which disproves that there would be no money for any good purpose. There'd be money if I didn't spend it on completely unnecessary things. Starting with the Hungarian Academy of Arts: 5.26 billion HUF. Besides the Matolcsy National Bank and the stadium construction program, this is the third best example of unscrupulous and annoying money-making. The Academy of Arts, which was suddenly made a veto-right institution of cultural politics from a small Fidesz art club, will receive 720 million forints this year after 4.5 billion forints last year, by renovating Vigadó for 5.5 billion, but it doesn't seem to be good enough for them, because just yesterday the government voted 2 billion for a new headquarters from the 2014 budget. It's hard to follow this level of money. Do you understand? It's just one of those Fidesz paying places where you get paid for the one merit of being a loyal subject. This shows that the government spends wasting money while millions are slipping into poverty. Stadiums: 20 billion. Despite all legitimate criticism, the government continues the stadium construction program. In 2015 it spends some HUF 20 billion on this purpose. That's 11 times the amount of money you spend on building a gym and a school. At the end of last year, 617 gymnasiums were missing from the country, because of compulsory gymnastics, students are forced to jump in the corridors, interrupting other classes, or attending theoretical physical education. Yet, the gym construction program was reduced by 70 percent compared to last year, from 3 billion to 900 million. And that's how the school was doing. According to all analysts, the stadium construction program is nothing. The level is not increasing, the number of viewers is not growing, the new stadiums are ringing empty, the Hungarian football is being woven into corruption. It also shows how wasteful the government spends, while millions are slipping into poverty. National Olympic Center: 44 billion. Maybe that's what I like best. It's also obvious to everyone that we're not going to have an Olympics, and that's fine. Yet now the government has spent 44 billion on improvements that serve this purpose, basically building another stadium. This also shows the loss of direction, the government spending wasting money while children starving in the country. Next thing you know, MVM capital increase, 50 billion. After this year's 41 billion-dollar gift, Hungarian Electricity will receive a 50 billion-dollar package in 2015. For what? It's a secret. There are two reasons. One is compensation for losses due to the bluff, i.e. the so-called reduction is paid from our tax, from the budget; or the other is that the government continues to buy up companies. The problem is, he's making the buy-in very expensive and wasteful. MOL shares, which were bought for HUF 500 billion, are worth almost half today. Loss: HUF 200 billion. Buying the E.ON gas business for 280-300 billion. Analysts say it was three times the price. Loss: HUF 200 billion. The energy industry is the area where this government is the most wasteful, tens and hundreds of billions disappear, most public money is wasted by the government in vain in this area. In addition, according to some news, MVM's capital increase is necessary for the purchase of Slovak state electric works. It does not have much to do with energy security in Hungary. This shows that the government spends wasting money while millions of people go into poverty. Eximbank: 18 plus 23 billion HUF. It's another state company that's sucking up taxpayers' money. Foreign adventures, subsidies and losses cost us that much. Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. real estate purchases; this is also included in the budget proposal: HUF 23 billion. The public trustee's resources will continue to expand to carry out large-scale real estate transactions. 23 billion? It's unnecessary. Investment promotion target: 13.4 billion. After this short list, I would like to talk about how the LMP sees a way out, what amendments could be made to improve the situation. The first and most important is the restoration of the resources of education and the development of education. The operating and maintenance costs of public education should be increased by a hundred billion in order to create a quality system. The same is true of higher education. The LMP also proposes a specific programme to save and develop rural colleges. Increases in higher education wages that have remained unchanged since 2008 would also be launched. We would strengthen domestic support for innovation, focusing on future technologies, because we need to see that quality education is only possible with prepared and paid staff. The LMP would also direct the wages of non-peda-educators directly assisting teachers, who have been left out of the teacher's wage increase. And while we're at it, public sector employees can't stay out of it, neither has their salary been raised for many years. But we really need action in all areas. Integrated kindergarten, kindergarten development and increasing public day care support to reduce the disadvantages that are already emerging in youth. Early development services should be extended to all areas. In the interests of disadvantaged areas, a mobile development and therapeutic education network should be established. Strengthening adult education is also a key issue. That's the alternative to a cover-up community service. We think that everyone has the right to work intelligently and for a living. It's the state's job to help you do that, not to force anyone who loses their job into a forced labour force from which there's no going back. We must turn back from the dead end of the increasingly grand public work programme. As a first step, the training grants that are now being reduced must be returned. Those without a job must be retrained and helped to find a place in a new area. Since 2010, domestic resources for active labour market instruments for job creation have not been so low. Half of last year's funds are spent on training unemployed people, obtaining work experience, becoming entrepreneurs, wage support, and job creation support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The government also cuts vocational and adult training subsidies roughly by nearly one third. Underpaid public work only preserves poverty and does not provide any help to break out of it. New jobs are needed in sustainable, crisis-resistant sectors in order to make sense of retraining and willingness to help. It's not the first time we've said it, and it's not the last time. The unnecessary stadium constructions and the despicable Paks II. green economic development and community economic development are needed instead. A green investment fund would support investment in future industries, in particular the development of the renewable energy industry and residential building energy development. Such investments could create tens of thousands of permanent jobs and move multiples of public resources. A fund for this purpose has the potential to create jobs significantly above traditional job creation programmes, due to high labour intensity and low import demand for investment. The effects are long-term, since saving energy costs stimulate domestic domestic demand in the long term. It's a sustainable reduction of the overhead. But we also need a community economic development fund, which could be an alternative to dead end community service. Support for enterprises created to meet Community needs would create locally jobs that, mostly on a cooperative basis, could provide development and a later independent, non-subsidised life. [[13.00]] Through local food production, local energy production, waste management, environmental protection, tourism, the missing local human public services? So care, social, educational, child protection, cultural, sports services? This could also be done. And then very briefly about rural development. Within the budget, the redeployment in the countryside must be corrected. The current draft looks at the countryside as a set of problems to be thrown down, not as a home and development opportunity for 8 million people. We need to give back the resources for social assistance, the $33 billion austerity. This reduction and the pressure on the municipalities themselves to squeeze out the coverage of mandatory tasks is a nasty move quoting the MSZP governments. Now it seems the Fidesz government is also eager to use it. EU funds and their successful use play a key role in rural development. This is why it is incomprehensible to reduce the municipal self-force base. This must be lifted. Without it, municipalities can be indebted. Moreover, the scope of the beneficiaries of the Self-Power Fund should be expanded to include civil society with a public mission. The renovation of rural roads, which are in poor condition, is a key area and has been criminally neglected by governments so far. 64 percent of the domestic road network? Almost 20,000 kilometers? He's in bad shape. Is it essential for the development of local economies? And not the roads where he's on the back of a pothole? Therefore, the creation of quality local roads. We also think that the farm development programme should be strengthened, on which the Fidesz government has spent HUF 6 billion in the last 3 years to help the quality of life of our 300,000 countrymen living on the farm. That's less than what the biggest landowners take as a grant a year. Of course, it is important for farm development to really get to the farms, not to become projects in Budapest, downtown. With the support of families, the government has dealt with a great deal. The problem is, it's only with the better way, well-earned families, they've used the one-key tax, the final repayment, the former form of family tax relief. Again, it points to the disintegration of society. According to the LMP, children should be supported regardless of the financial conditions under which their parents live. It is necessary to improve not only a narrow layer, but also the tools available to all. It is of particular importance that we increase the family allowance that has been frozen for seven years, because child poverty is growing rapidly. I have already mentioned that the reduction of social benefits is unacceptable. In addition, it is necessary to start the wage increase in the social sphere, which the government has been promising for a long time, and to deceive workers in social, child welfare and child protection institutions for a long time, who, for the most part, live below the minimum living standards themselves. Real family support is for the state to help solve the real problems of families. Working for women with small children is the central issue here, not only in order to improve their current situation, but also in the event of the birth of planned children when it is clear that motherhood does not take away the possibility of developing from women. All possible means must be used to support not only employment as an employee, but also self-employment, becoming an entrepreneur, such as contributions, and to appoint a ministerial commissioner who is responsible for this neglected area. Finally, we need to talk about what is one of the most painful points for us, LMP: destroying our common future, destroying our natural conditions and plowing the institutional system that protects our existence. The government is determined to eliminate our protected areas, to eliminate their protection for misinterpreted economic development, which is mainly the transfer of capital to those close to the government. You don't know what you're doing. The preservation of our natural capital is the most fundamental common interest. It is therefore also necessary to strengthen national parks, to expand the nature conservation guard service and to replace the resources taken from them. The government should not be concerned with how it can destroy the guards of our common treasures, but should also fulfil the tasks of international conventions, which are in the interest of all of us. The so-called Ramsari Convention on the Protection of Water Areas, the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity, the Framework Convention on Climate Change and the National Adaptation Strategy, the European Landscape Convention, the Framework Convention on the Sustainable Development of Carpathians are all binding. This list may be dry, but it indicates that we know exactly what to do, only the intention is missing. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-19-26	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have come to the end of the keynote speeches. Now, according to the decision-making rules, the first independent Member to apply may speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, in accordance with the agreement of the independent Members, within a 7-minute time frame.
u2014-11-19-27	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Many of you have said today that the budget shows how the government thinks about the country, what it wants, what it doesn't want, what it considers important and what it doesn't. I see that this 2015 budget is the budget of slipping families. And as usual, the victims of this are children and young people. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, You are talking about the accountability of banks, the families, the growth of prosperity, while the 2015 budget is nothing more than a distressing belt in the hands of the government, as next year there will be another year of tax increases, and at least 13 taxes will rise in Hungary. Whatever you say, the fact is that next year, people's health, families, social assistance, unemployment benefits will have less money than last year. Of course, you can visualize everyone's work, but we know you can't. That's a rather spartan thought. In addition, there is a real big secret, at least one in this budget: hiding somewhere among the billions of EMMI, there is also a reduction in education. The invisible plan, the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State of Czomba have been heard many times over the last few days. The government plans to cut high schools and train more skilled workers. Really: why so many graduate children in Hungary? This invisible plan seems to be one of the essential elements of this budget, on the one hand, because it turns out that everything is not included in the budget. On the other hand, is it because of the reform of the school system? Is this gigantic experimentation? the exact embodiment of the worldview of Fidesz, the real vision of Fidesz about the country and the families. At first glance, it may seem that you have only seen a problem, the weakness of vocational training, which you might want to improve. But what they're planning? Bringing back the professional worker state of the '80s? At the same time, it brings back a world that has been outdated for decades, and at the same time it is well suited to build a system of Fidesz subjects. Dear fellow Members, Decommissioning the high school system is more than a crime. CHAPTER XXI The century is about continuing re-learning, which requires, above all, strong basic skills: writing, understanding reading, mathematics, English and digital knowledge for everyone. [[13.10]] Children who cannot acquire these skills in today's school will face the horror of unemployment for the rest of their lives. On the other hand, those who graduate in Hungary have a better chance of getting a job, obviously earn more and have a chance to move on. Since 2010, Fidesz has been chasing people who are trying to break out of difficult situations by learning. This is what the reduction of the school obligation, the centralization of schools and the increase in massive tuition fees were all about in certain disciplines. In 2010, we spent 11,6 percent of GDP on education, next year it is only 9.7 percent, almost 20 percent less. This is your creation. And the drop of the high school system is just another blow to the increasingly inadequate school system. If parents are now worried in Hungary, it is very justified. Dear Secretary of State, A system that does not support all children getting as far as possible in the school system makes the future of poorer and rural families impossible in the first place. And in your system, every child can only get as far as his family's wallet allows. The wealthy move forward, and the poor's children fall behind. There's no chance of an outburst or a lack of knowledge. In this budget, your real family model has been exposed: a demented school system, obstruction of outbursts, reduced family allowances and children's benefits, deteriorating health care and forced outdated community service by parents. Dear Secretary of State, Mr and members of the Government. Can we do this better? Can we really build a civil Hungary without further restrictions? Of course I can. There would be more money if you were pursuing a competitive policy and the Hungarian economy was doing better. There would be money to follow our proposals on a balanced, progressive tax system. There'd be money if there weren't so much money in confusing public procurement. And there'd be money if you didn't put 100 billion in amazing prestige investments: 44 billion to the National Olympic Center, 49 billion to all kinds of stadiums, ten billion to the Ludovika Campus, György Fekete clown academy, government to move to Castle, and so on. If all this weren't so incredibly outrageous, as the mother of three children, I could say that's terribly childish. But you know very well what you're doing. While in Hungary 4 million people live below the poverty line and the middle class is in a massive slippage, you waste people's money on their luxury hobbies. Dear Parliament, Your hard-pressed 2015 budget is impenetrable and uncredited. It is opaque, because many billions of forints simply do not know where the government wants to collect it or what it spends it on. Even the State Audit Office of Hungary, which cannot be accused of government criticism, has found an unsubstantiated measure of HUF 200 billion in the budget. There's 12 billion in revenue here that suddenly started overnight. Finally, there is the lurking, invisible redeployment behind the billions of EMMIs. How do you plan to implement your own budget, with so many unknowns? How can we believe in these numbers? Your budget plan is, of course, very uncredited. Until the Orbán government clears itself of corruption cases that have occurred in recent weeks, as long as people protest on the streets in thousands of masses weekly and shout that we do not pay taxes to criminals, then the government must take clarification measures. It's the budget of a country that's seriously slid down, torn apart, that's what we've got ahead of us. [[The president's ringing the bell. ? Dr. Vas Imre: Time, time!]] The government's confusing plan. There's nothing about what you're talking about, there's no security, there's no future, there's no family. I suggest you redesign this whole thing. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-19-28	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have the voice of the minority advocate invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, within a 20-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, Chairman of the Committee, Slovak ethnic advocate, who will present and translate his first sentences in Slovak. You have the floor.
u2014-11-19-29	Vážen? Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás v mene parlamentého V? boru pre národnosti v Ma. Arsku a prájem Customs úspesné rokovanie! Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and wish you an effective discussion. The 13 ethnic advocates of our committee took note of today's general debate on T/1794. Draft Act XXXVI of 2012 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 on the National Assembly. It shall be negotiated as a nationality item, as provided for in Law No. Thus, our committee and the national minority advocates designated by it will have the opportunity to make their views known on the draft budget law on the three days of the general debate. We are happy to do so, all the more so, since we have been able to do this for many years, on behalf of the entire national minority society, in these days alone, despite, for example, the fact that the former minority law and the new national minority law give national minority authorities the right to comment on the draft legislation affecting their nationality. The budget bill is clearly such a document. At some point in the early 2000s, such consultations were held annually with national national minority self-governments, but then gradually and permanently they became oblivious to oblivion and legality. I can remember this at the head of the National Slovak Municipality on the basis of my own experience, but we also had seven other advocates as presidents of the national minority self-government, and the others were other officials or representatives of these bodies. Therefore, perhaps, on the basis of our most direct involvement and personal experience, I would like to focus on the development of budgetary support for national minority self-governments, when I begin to examine the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015 from the perspective of domestic nationalities. The Parliament 98/2013. CHAPTER XI The Government adopted its latest biannual report on the situation of nationalities living in Hungary, covering the period between February 2011 and February 2013, by means of Parliamentary Resolution No 27 of October 2013. In this detailed document there is also a table showing the central budget support of the 13 national minority self-governments between 2010 and 2013. I would like to stress here that the figures for 2010 were unchanged for the third year of 2008 at that time. In 2011, there will be an increase in numbers, when national minority authorities will receive their media support guaranteed in their budget section. For example, the support of the Bulgarian National Municipality increased from HUF 37.5 to HUF 43.7 million, from the Serbs to HUF 49.6 to HUF 78.7 million, from the Slovaks to HUF 93.2 to HUF 128 million, or from the Germans to HUF 214.1 million. I repeat: increasing budget support will cover the costs of national minority weekly newspapers, and national minority authorities and their offices will not benefit from it, and in some cases they will be forced to complement media support. The new budget items thus formed in 2011 will also be found under the heading "Sponsoring national minority self-governments and media" in 2012 and 2013 as well as in this year's budget law. [[13.20]] In fact, the 2015 budget bill is the same! Unaltered, practically since 2008, it has been eight years! It's like time has stopped over national ethnic authorities. He didn't stop! The most recent national minority country report in 2013 accounts for 59 educational, cultural and other institutions that are maintained by one of the 13 national minority self-governments. Since then, this impressive number has been extended, as the National Slovak Municipality has taken over the right to maintain the Slovak schools in Tótkomlós and Budapest, the Serbian National Municipality has also taken over the maintenance of the Serbian school in Budapest. May I continue with the list, but can this House receive even more detailed information from my fellow ethnic advocates on the growing institutional system of national minority self-governments, which is, of course, further, newly established or adopted cultural institutions? Theaters, research institutes, museums, libraries, documentation and cultural centers? They're also enriching. Serving our most fundamental ethnic aspirations and the enforcement of our rights guaranteed by the Fundamental Law of the country, the free living of our ethnic identity, the care of our culture and language, and the development of our native language education. That is why I believe that the main depositaries of the cultural autonomy of nationalities in Hungary and of the positive quality changes in this respect over the last decade are the national minority self-governments. In view of this, it is very depressing and chilling to see the still image that we see in stagnation of their central budget support. Raimondo Montecuccoli is an Austrian imperial general of Italian origin. In the century, he explained that the war requires three things: money, money, and money. Of course, the war is not welcome to be an example, especially in the present, tense situation in Ukraine for a long time, which can tragically affect many of our nationalities in Hungary, but especially the nationalities in Transcarpathia. But a great deal of money is needed not only for war, it is also necessary for peaceful construction, it is essential to provide an adequate financial background. According to our Commission, this lack has led to an emergency situation in which some national minority authorities have reached the limit of their capacity to perform. And this is not primarily about taking on tasks that exceed their strength and potential in the heat of responsibility and will for their nationality. It was not considered that each cultural institution taken over or newly established, each national minority school saved and maintained by them, would, over time, increase their administrative duties and obligations exponentially. They did not think that they would have to operate an independent office, and they would also have to employ an economic director, internal auditor and auditor as a budgetary body, in addition to the duly qualified Registrar. They themselves did not believe that, for years, they were not actually receiving a single penny of budget support from the State and the municipalities. And at that time, we have not yet talked about ensuring that thousands of preschoolers, schoolchildren and educators are fed by strict and complicated public procurement procedures, or, fortunately, the possibility of renovating institutional buildings, which have been implemented through hundreds of millions of domestic and European Union projects. In addition to well-known administrative obligations. Just as the two-round EU project called TÁMOP has been and is still taking place in a billion-dollar scale, partly with national minority self-organization. The members of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities agreed that the string can no longer be tightened, and the situation calls for a solution. We contacted the 13 national minority self-governments and asked for concrete budget proposals to solve the problems. Is it a pleasure to have our plan so developed? which also concerns other areas to be mentioned later? The representatives of the government and parliamentary factions were welcomed with understanding. Thus, we hope that after nearly a decade of stagnation in the 2015 central budget, a substantial positive shift in the fiscal support of national minority self-governments can be expected. We will, of course, submit our Commission's concrete amendments to this House according to the rules in force. In addition to the first directing step in supporting the operation of national minority self-governments, do we consider the institutions they maintain to be particularly important? consolidation of budget support for cultural, educational and other activities. In fact, these institutions have maintained the state of budgetary germs created at the time of their adoption or establishment, largely for a decade, in unchanged form. However, do we not ask for a change in public education institutions maintained by national and local national authorities? Kindergartens, schools and dorms? the financing system currently established and guaranteed by a public education agreement with the Minister for Trade is capable and reassuring to ensure their operation and maintenance. The situation is more complicated with the well-known abbreviation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, in the case of several hundreds of primary schools of nationality maintained by KLIK, but it also requires further studies by the national minority authorities and our committee. It is a very important and unavoidable budgetary task to boost the support of local and regional national authorities, as these 2200 bodies, with their regular professional work required by the law, are essential to the survival of Hungarian nationalities. Five German and one Slovak local minority self-governments maintain kindergartens and schools. Dozens of bodies operate ethnic landscapes, not in one case their own property, and effectively support local ethnic education and cultural activities. Differentiated support based on their work has also been requested by nationalities, but this needs to be improved. However, the operating support of a lot of local bodies, as our committee recently pointed out at the meeting of the 2013 central budget closure, does not exceed HUF 9,000 net, which does not require any further comments. The central budget allocation for local and regional minority self-governments has not increased since 2010 for five years. Here, too, we believe a positive shift is necessary. We are also looking for a way to substantially increase the source and level of funding for NGOs, which has not changed in practically 12 years. The three areas affected so far? national minority self-governments and their institutions, local and regional minority self-governments, as well as minority civil society organisations? they have already been included in the Finance Act. [[13.30]] The 2015 Central Budget Bill is also to be extended by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities with a new chapter, which would include support from national minority institutions for investment, renovation and tendering. As I mentioned earlier, national minority authorities have played an important role in this area in the past period, each with hundreds of millions of forints of government and European Union funding. For example, the National Local Government of the Hungarian Germans extended and renewed the German educational centre in Pécs, and the National Croatian Municipality also extended and reconstructed the educational centre of Pécs, the Serbian National Municipality and the Romanian National Municipality renovated and extended the ethnic school in Battony. With the support of the two governments, the National Slovak Government has built the Regional Centre of the Slovaks in Pilis, renovated the Slovak educational complex in Pécsaba in several stages, and this autumn started the renovation of the Slovak school in Tátaljaújhely. As we do not see such investment opportunities in the next EU budget cycle, we consider it important to provide them with a domestic budget. Dear Parliament, Volume I of Chapter explanatory statements relating to the 2015 Central Budget Bill begins with the following two sentences:. The move towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure in the Hungarian economy started in 2013 in the last quarter. The performance of the Hungarian economy in the first half of 2014 was significantly higher than the preliminary expectations, and it was one of the highest in the European Union. * Of course, we Hungarian nationalities living in Hungary, working, taxing, trying to thrive and survive with our particular culture are also rooting for the country's economy, confident that its increasing performance will also trigger the long-awaited positive shift in the financing of nationalities that I spoke about. I ask the honourable Members for their understanding support, as well as for the weight of the voice of nationalities and their advocates in the House of the country. Dakujem za posornos. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-19-30	Thank you, Mr President, for your speech. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-19-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, those affected to whom I would like to respond are not present, and they seemed to think it was more important to tell the untruths, and then they jumped quickly. Congresswoman Selényi spoke of all kinds of invisible plans. The peculiarity of invisible plans is that everyone sees what they want. Obviously, this also motivated Erzsébet Schmuck to see into the budget a withdrawal of funds from education, or said that he did not know what budget he had read. I'd like to help him. Probably one of the previous budgets of the MSZP-SZDSZ government, probably in 2008 or 2009, because there is not a withdrawal of funds in the present budget in the field of education, but an increase in resources. Public education as a whole is characterised by an increase in resources of around 8 percent, with an increase of nearly 15 percent in the field of higher education in the budget. So I would like to respectfully recommend accurate and comprehensible reading to both Members. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-19-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Since no further two-minute speeches have been made, further speeches will now take place. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-33	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Lords! Fellow Members! I wanted to start with that, but we are on an important day to wish Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck a happy name day, but she too, as my colleague László Pósán said earlier, told me what she had to say, as Mrs Selényi, and then left. But in order to stay on the good news and go on, Gyula Vantara sits next to me and let us welcome her and welcome her to her 60th birthday. Dear fellow Members, Several things have been said here this morning that have compared the budget to a family budget, and I would also like to join in this line, because a family budget is good if you take stock of the options and divide the budget in such a way that you count everything, calculate unexpected expenses, account for what you have to do, look at the overhead, look at the public expenditure, and then look at what you can manage and what you can improve. A good family budget is like that. I think that the previous speakers are obviously due to their political situation, since their position has always been determined by their meeting point, they have talked about the 2015 budget. However, the only thing they could say was what the government, the State Audit Office or the Fiscal Council reported on, namely that this budget has proved in the past four years that it was not necessary to unravel and to prepare a budget for 2015, which does not fail on the first day, does not need to be converted immediately, but provides sufficient flexibility for any unexpected turn to take place, so that it can be kept. But let's see what the 2015 budget is about. The Government, including the Fidesz Group, remains committed to maintaining financial stability and encouraging economic growth. To this end, over the past four and a half years, we have made significant and large structural changes, including in the areas of labour market, pension system, tax system, education and public administration. As a result, we have managed to avoid the already suffocating excessive deficit procedure and to repay the IMF loan. In addition, next year's budget accounts for 2.5 percent economic growth and 2.4 percent budget deficit. The objective remains to further reduce debt; the budget calculates and plans at a GDP-to-GDP ratio of 75,4 per cent. We can say that the government's economic policy measures to date have produced the expected results, as the performance of the Hungarian economy in the first half of 2014 was significantly higher than the preliminary expectations and was one of the highest in the European Union. Stable dynamics can be explained by the fact that while exports were only the driving force of the Hungarian economy during the previous period, retail consumption and investment have contributed increasingly to growth in recent quarters. While both the European Commission and NGM planned a 2.3 percent increase at the beginning of 2014, the actual performance of the economy was significantly more favourable, the gross domestic product increased by 3.8 percent in the first half of the year compared to the same period of the previous year. Unfortunately, we cannot be so optimistic because of the crises over next year and around us, but the increase in GDP of 2.5 percent seems to be sound. This fact is also indicated by the further improvement of the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy in the autumn forecast published by the European Commission on 4 November. The Commission's projections are in line with the government's forecasts and ours, as the amendment of the Hungarian forecast for 2014 and 2015 is also interesting because the Commission has revised the expected growth rates downwards for the EU-28 as a whole. [[13.40]] Over the next period, the growth of the Hungarian economy is expected to show a more balanced structure, as consumption is also on an increasing trend in addition to persistently high investment activity. This is due to two things: low inflation and positive labour market developments. Overall, household consumption expenditure is expected to increase by 2 percent by 2014. This trend may continue in 2015, as government measures, sectoral wage increases, public employment, the career model of armed and police bodies will strengthen the purchasing power of the population. The recovery of external demand will help our production side to grow. The recovery of domestic demand can contribute to further growth in market services and construction production. Hungary's GDP-related investment rate is likely to rise from 19.9% last year to almost 21 percent by the end of the year, and an additional 4.3 percent increase is expected by 2015. Another source of growth is the start of the EU's seven-year budget cycle, which is planned to achieve an economic development target of 60%, thereby helping the large business sector to invest and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. In the 2014-20 development cycle, our country will receive more than €34 billion in funding. This, together with the necessary domestic co-financing, could mean a HUF 12 000 billion development in the coming years. The growth credit programme will continue, the growth-enhancing effect of which is already visible. In the first 9 months of 2014, the number of housing permits issued increased at a very rapid rate, by 30 percent annually, as well as the number of housing transactions increased compared to last year. 2014 will be the year of stabilisation in the housing market; from 2015 onwards, there will be a lasting recovery, which will be supported by the expansion of housing support. The examination of credit conditions prepared by the Hungarian National Bank, supported by the banks participating in the lending survey, can also provide an optimism. These all mean the dissolution of lending conditions and the expansion of lending incentives. The population remains cautious in borrowing, but in the medium term there is a serious recovery, especially due to the low interest rate environment. The state of public finances within the budget. Budget planning and deficit targets have been implemented in accordance with EU and domestic budget rules. The calculations took into account government measures for next year. For the coming years, the government's fiscal policy priority will continue to be a gradual reduction of the general government deficit and government debt. With these objectives in mind and in view of the EU methodology studies, the deficit will be 2,1 per cent for 2016, 1.8 per cent for 2017 and 1.5 per cent for 2018. It is important to note that both the State Audit Office and the Fiscal Council have delivered opinions on the budget in a manner organised by the Fundamental Law. We could read their opinions and hear them in the expos. It was a unanimous opinion that the proposal submitted was sound and there is a strong chance that we can be observed and achieved as a result of our joint work. Ladies and gentlemen, However, this has not always been the case, since in recent years, during socialist governments, we have become accustomed to the fact that budgets are not always about what they want to do, but about something else. I hope that the past four years have proved to you that this government and the parliamentary majority are submitting and implementing well-designed and implemented budgets in Parliament. I would like to say a few more words about the local government world, in which it was a very important year in 2014, as the government relieved local governments of the debt burden by more than HUF 1300 billion. Thus, in 2015, municipalities will be able to start the management year without debt. In 2015, they can manage more than HUF 2500 billion, with a central budget of HUF 690.5 billion. The central financing of local authorities is based on a task-based support scheme adapted to the tasks of the local government established in previous years. In 2015, the main task of local authorities will be to strengthen the fiscal conditions for management without operational deficits, to further catch up on small settlements, to create equal opportunities and to increase the quality of public tasks and public services provided by local authorities in line with the budgetary options. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Tóth, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-19-35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The introduction of a general justification for the submitted budget law is like a declaration of victory. This tells us that Hungary is now performing better thanks to the efforts of the past years. On the other hand, the government's bad economic policy since 2010 has resulted in a significant lag compared to the countries of the region, the improvement of public finances is only apparent, the public debt has actually increased and the deficit is only below 3 percent of GDP due to the nationalisation of private pension funds. And ever since then, keeping the deficit at a level has been due only to further cuts. Poverty has increased, the employment situation has actually improved slightly, the investment climate remains bad, foreign capital is still flowing out in 2013 and the first half of 2014. Hungary's international perception is getting worse, anti-market economic policy, weakened forint...? the government is largely responsible for reducing the real value of the EU's inflow of funds that is essential for investment. A sentence was also highlighted in the explanatory statement that the 2015 budget would be a budget for bank accountability. However, the proposal does not show why banks would have a budget to account for next year's budget, since the state would not have any role to play outside the regulation. At least it is not included in the budget in any way in order to assist the forinting with support. In the explanatory statement of the proposal, it is said only many times that more money is left over by people to be accounted for. According to the government, this will be spent on consumption, but the surplus income will not appear in prognosis, there will be no leaps in retail spending next year. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs takes the notary seat.]] In addition to optimistic macroeconomic assumptions, next year's budget will also anticipate significant austerity and a year of social conflict. There will be no tax cuts against election promises, but instead there will be tax increases and new taxes. Despite all promises, health expenditure will continue to fall in real terms from 2015 onwards, while the debts of the institutions will already exceed HUF 100 billion. The welfare expenditure could increase by HUF 122 billion in total, but family and social support will fall significantly next year, with HUF 68 billion in total. [[13.50]] The family allowance and child benefits may be reduced by nearly 4 percent. Instead of HUF 535 billion this year, HUF 517 billion will be paid to pay for child, maternity and family allowances next year. The transformation is clearly beneficial for families in the upper middle class, where they can make a substantial contribution by using tax incentives. These measures also make child poverty more serious. Of course, there are also expenditure items that increase significantly. Almost 60 billion more will be invested next year, such as 50 billion stadium constructions and a massively profitable MVM with a capital increase of HUF 50 billion. However, we do not know why this is necessary and what this amount is actually intended for. Legislative and executive bodies can spend HUF 830 billion next year, which is HUF 90 billion higher than this year's plans. Financial and budgetary activities could amount to HUF 545 billion, which is 76 billion higher than this year's appropriations. The government spends HUF 35 billion more on the public works programme in 2015, which means that the increase in employment will continue to be carried out by public works instead of by encouraging investment programmes. Next year the tax and contribution charges will increase by around HUF 280 billion. The largest is won by VAT, with a total of nearly HUF 158 billion more sales tax than this year, but we do not know exactly why the amount is increasing to this extent, i.e. 5.2 percent. According to the budget plan, the population will increase their consumption to a great extent by reducing the repayments at the end of the accounting period, but it is projected that household expenditure will not increase more than 2.6 percent. Does that mean that? In terms of 1.8 percent inflation? Revenues may increase by 4.4 percent, which explains 134 billion HUF of the planned revenue increase. But no more. The HUF 23 billion additional revenue planned in addition to that is explained again by the Cabinet's whitening. But let's see what next year's budget will do for the economy. The increase of 2.5 percent in 2015 appears to be overestimated. According to the findings made by the GKI, the budgetary options are limited. In order to avoid an increase in public debt and to adapt to the expectations of the European Union, the deficit-to-GDP ratio will be 2.4 per cent by 2015 and the reduction of reserves will start in order to achieve a reduction in government debt at the end of the year. According to the bill submitted, this year's 76.3 percent government debt will be 75.4 percent at the end of the year. However, it is enough that the economy does not spin as the government plans, or if a few ten billion forints more deficit comes together in the budget, and the public debt will not fall. The government sets out economic growth and development directions in the proposal, but the concrete steps have not been taken in the planning process. The central budget plans to generate HUF 341.4 billion in corporation tax in 2015 compared to 354.8 billion this year. This reflects the government's relationship with the corporate sector. Next year, companies supporting higher education institutions will benefit from corporate tax benefits, and companies supporting visual team sports, performing arts and Hungarian films will continue to receive tax relief. The planned budget revenue for 2015 under the simplified business tax is HUF 83.8 billion. This revenue is HUF 16.8 billion, 25 percent more than the amount foreseen for the 2014 budget year, and HUF 26.2 billion less than in 2013. The government has virtually failed in terms of the specific tax on small-scale companies and the small-scale tax. In 2012, it was said that as of 2014, the number of voters of new business taxes could reach 500 000, but this was not the case. In 2013 and 2014, much less than expected taxpayers chose these two forms of taxation. The government's idea failed! This year, the kata was 61.9 percent lower, and the kiva was 92.2 percent lower than the appropriations. The situation will not be better in 2015. In the case of kata, the planned amount is HUF 56.3 billion from 2015 compared to HUF 78 billion in 2014, and in the case of kava, the appropriations are only HUF 16.4 billion from 2014 compared to HUF 45.4 billion in 2015. The figures show that in the case of the cata, the revenue planned for next year will be 27.82 percent lower, and in the case of kiva it will be 63.88 percent less. The biggest problem is the unpredictable economic policy, the result of which is that as many companies in the country have never been destroyed as last year. The number of companies closing broke record in the third quarter of 2014, when a total of 10 722 companies were cancelled, 5 percent more than in the previous quarter, and 33 percent more than in the same period of the previous year. According to statistics, 15 percent of Hungarian SMEs operate for less than a year, after which they will be wound up. 80 percent of the newly created companies are created by entrepreneurs who have previously left behind companies with debts and debts. The general justification is that, since the change of government in 2010, economic policy has been aimed at increasing employment, improving competitiveness and ensuring balanced economic growth. The government refers to the reduction of bureaucracy in the justification for improving the country's competitiveness. It intends to further reduce the administrative deadline from 25 days to 15 days, which will be extended by up to 15 days. The reduction in bureaucracy in the language of numbers means that more people will work for more money, less money or less. Over the next three years, they intend to implement a reduction in public debt, i.e. a number of levies and fines will be reduced or imposed, and a number of unnecessary regulations will be removed. However, this alone will not improve the country's economic competitiveness, as it can be seen that it has not improved in years. The government has previously promised to create Europe's most competitive tax system, and Hungary's position in all international competitiveness comparisons has remained virtually unchanged. According to the government, growth started in 2013 in the Hungarian economy, taking into account macroeconomic data, and continued to grow in 2014. On the other hand, consumption demand has not increased or the external market has not increased. In addition, there was no positive trend in employment. Next year, the government wants to make sure that everyone in Hungary has a job and that no one needs income support. The government is giving us a vision that has nothing to do with reality. One of the biggest problems of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is the narrow market opportunity, with a direct consequence of which the unenhanced development and the increased competitive disadvantage. 2014 did not provide an adequate basis for solving SMEs' problems; it did not help the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The government promises that a HUF 12,000 billion EU resource will arrive in Hungary. They aim to spend at least 60% of development and investment aid on economic development and job creation. The investments are expected to be spent at HUF 2500 billion. Applicants can expect much more transparent, simpler, more rational tender procedures than before. We look forward to the results, as this is not what the experience has shown in recent years. The business environment is driven by high administrative burdens, unpredictable regulation and moderate competition in the economy. Dear Parliament, The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector is a key area of the Hungarian economy. Both the livelihood of a large proportion of Hungarian families and the expansion of the entire national economy depend to a significant extent on the state and growth potential of SMEs. [[14.00]] The outstanding economic weight of the sector is illustrated by the fact that 99 percent of registered companies are SMEs in Hungary today. There are over 500,000 micro, 25,000 small and about 4,000 medium-sized enterprises in the country. We need a budget where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises receive not only verbal, but also indeed high-priority state aid from the production sector to service providers, traders and family economy. This budget does not provide a basis for solving SMEs' problems. Small businesses need more favourable and predictable economic conditions. The number of taxes on SMEs should be reduced, the legislation that restricts them senselessly should be abolished, the bureaucratic requirements applicable to them simplified. We need to strengthen investors' confidence in Hungary with predictability and stability, and encourage domestic SMEs to invest in the market. A new transparent, efficient and fair tax system should be developed to encourage employment in a comprehensive manner. Hungarian SMEs should be encouraged to increase their export intensity. Measures should be taken to increase the export market potential of the SME sector, together with productivity improvements. Foreign investment results in substantial economic growth when there is added value in domestic production, therefore targeted support for production companies is particularly important. The practice of encouraging foreign investment in Hungary must be put to an end while Hungarian companies are practically not benefiting from the expansion of supply markets. Currently, large investment in foreign capital is very low, with only a few percent domestic supplier share. In order for the domestic SME sector to have a decisive weight in this area, it is necessary to increase the share of suppliers to the current multiple. One of the biggest problems of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary is the lack of resources and narrow market opportunities, with the direct consequence of which is the unsettling development and increasing competitive disadvantage. A combined capital and credit programme should be launched that can effectively facilitate the development of businesses and improve their competitiveness. In order to improve their competitiveness, it is necessary to significantly increase R &amp; D support, support technological investment and encourage R &amp; D participation by small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Targeted applications should help create small technology companies, startups and successfully start-ups. It is necessary to support the development of viable ideas, the development of products and their deployment on the world market by setting up and financing incubator organisations. Dear Parliament, Overall, this budget does not help the situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises either. This budget bill cannot be supported by the MSZP fraction, inter alia, for this reason. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-19-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, also announced his intention to speak in writing. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-11-19-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Then, after a decade, we were off the bench of shame. Last July, we were removed from the European Union's excessive deficit procedure, and we heard from others even in the debate on the 2013 accounts. This is the result of a deliberately planned and managed fiscal policy. The reduction of the budget deficit and the debt ratio, the start-up of economic growth and the steady increase in employment show, unlike many other speakers, that we are on the right track. The macro numbers are strict facts, and they clearly prove this, even if my fellow Member has a different opinion on this. In fact, in recent days, I have deepened and I recommend that you all go into the public reports and opinions available on the website of the State Audit Office; I have returned to 2006 and have examined the accounts for the year in question. My experience has shown that the SAO's findings and comments support what President László Domokos said here in his speech and at the SAO's press conference last week, that the 2015 central budget bill is the best such bill in recent years. This conclusion is certainly true, given the past eight years. This is particularly important, Mr Nándor Gúr, because, for example, during the audit of the 2008 accounts, the SAO concluded that the bill was not transparent. Well, given our outstanding 3.2 percent economic growth in Europe, I think it is safe to say that the planned HUF 16 380 billion in revenue and HUF 17 258 billion in expenditure, with a deficit of HUF 877 billion, this budget proposal is not only transparent but well founded. However, by transparency, I mean not only transparency, but also the new type of philosophy behind the draft budget, as the objectives of job creation, support for families and economic recovery remain at the heart of the whole planning. According to the budget figures, will we spend more on supporting families and childbearing, job creation and education next year? I'd like to underline here that I'm saying both public education and higher education, and then the numbers? , public security, support for farmers, the preservation of the value of pensions and the development of the economy. As an economic politician, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the importance of the latter. In the spirit of economic recovery, support for active work-oriented measures will increase rather than passive benefits. So next year, businesses can expect more support than this year. Next year, a large-scale economic development programme will be launched using EU support. In the 2014-2020 development cycle, over seven years, more than EUR 34 billion of funding is coming to Hungary. This, together with the Hungarian co-financing, will mean a HUF 12 thousand billion development in the coming years. 60 percent of the development and investment aid coming into our country is intended for economic development and job creation by the government. On this basis, I think it is fair to say that the conditions for economic growth in 2014 will continue to be guaranteed next year. Looking at the budget, it can be concluded that there is considerable restraint and moderation that the government will only expect a 2.5 percent economic growth by 2015, a deficit calculated according to a 2.4 percent EU methodology and a debt-to-GDP ratio of 75,4 percent at the end of the year. To ensure this, adequate reserves have been created, and using them, if there is a problem, as we have heard in Csaba Tóth's speech, it is possible to change the results accordingly. As a result of the expected economic performance growth, the positive trend remains in the labour market next year. It is estimated that more than 260 000 people will work than before the crisis and the unemployment rate will fall below 8 per cent. In addition, it will be more balanced in the structure of the domestic economy, domestic demand is increasing, and household consumption is expected to increase by 2 percent. At the same time, economic growth is supported by a low inflation environment, which is planned to be only 1.8 per cent next year, but also by an 8 per cent increase in public education and more than 10 per cent in higher education. [[14.10]] As we heard in the ministerial exposé, next year will have a stable financial background. This allows you to stay with families for some 240 billion forints in 2015. In addition, the bank's accountability is expected to increase the income available to families by another HUF 30 billion, in addition to the 25-30 percent decrease in the repayments, as a result of the maintenance of the reduction. The expansion of Hungary's economic space allows the government to introduce a family home-building discount with a state grant of HUF 4 billion from 1 July 2015, which not only allows the purchase of new, but also used housing. I would like to point out that the anagram of this, the kissing, in some way, indicates that, as a result, pure emotions will start and many, many marriages will be made. Supporting families and increasing employment can, of course, only be successful and effective if the basic public institutions and structures function properly, which is why the improvement of workers' wages will continue in health care. Next year, healthcare will receive HUF 79 billion more than this year, and even hospitals will receive significant additional resources. Someone said that they'd finally put in the system the extra monthly source that the profession has missed so far. In addition to the wage increase for health workers, the wage increase for teachers will continue next year, and it will continue in the coming years, and the wages of law enforcement workers will also increase. Ladies and gentlemen, The State Audit Office concluded that the bill complies with the requirements of the Fundamental Law, the Stability Act, the Government debt rule and the Public Finance Act, and also provides for reserves. The analyses show that the macroeconomic indicators will continue to be positive next year, as confirmed by the expectations of the President of the Fiscal Council, as there is no credit rating agency for which this is not the case. This is how a fund can be drawn up by 2015, which will ensure that our country continues to be on the right path, as István Széchenyi said:. If we are on the path of creation, we are on the right path. Of course, it is necessary to take into account all the risks and legal shortcomings that the SAO's opinion has pointed out to our attention, the risks and the legal shortcomings mentioned by the President of the SAO. We therefore have a responsibility to ensure that, in the context of the budget, these risks are eliminated according to our proposed amendments and that the necessary legislative amendments are made. If we do these things, I'm sure we're on the right track. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Krisztina Morvai, Member of the European Parliament, who spoke against the time frame of the Jobbik Group, also came forward. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-19-39	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I would like to remind you that, when preparing the budget, you are not only deciding on macro numbers, but that behind the macro numbers, there are real stories and real fates of real people. In order to help you get into the situation of these people, I will read letters as long as my time frame lasts. I'll always say the title so that I can separate the letters from each other. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] My dearest Krisztina! I work three shifts, cheese factory, six days out of seven days, a day off. The net I get with overtime and allowances is exactly 82 400 forints. Of course, the owner is a foreigner, if he could, I think he would literally drive us out. They are well aware that there is no room for change in Baranya, and this is being abused hard. I can see the owner's face when he looks at us like he doesn't even consider us human. Many mothers work with me on shifts, many complain that their children are sad because their mothers are barely with them. There was a time when a mother called at work, she couldn't work overtime because her son said a poem, and the answer was, "You're fired." Of course, even though the little boy waited for his mother's Mother's Day celebration, she did not arrive. The way I see it, women are in a very difficult situation today, mothers who raise their children alone, nothing and no one protects them in any way, and that is a big problem. And what's the price enough for? My co-worker complained the day after the payment, she had 4 thousand forints left until the next payment, after she paid everything. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Krisztina Morvai! I'm describing our family problem to you. My husband is 61 years old and has 47 years of work, but he can't retire until he's 63. He's a high school graduate, works at MÁV as a mechanic. In winter in the cold, in the heat in the summer, all for a net salary of HUF 109 thousand per month. We raised two children, one of the two graduating economists, speaks English, Italian and French, unfortunately he doesn't have a job because he's overqualified. Our other child is an administrator at a university, with a salary of 98 thousand forints. We don't know now? It's a little longer, but another detail of the same letter? What will happen to us now, if they want to HUF our currency loan at this rate, because I think that until we die, we'll pay for it. We took up HUF 63,000, or HUF 9 million 500 thousand, for 15 years in 2007, and now we owe 49 thousand francs. If we multiply this by the government's HUF 256.47 exchange rate, then we owe 12 million HUF 567,000. And they took 9,5 million. Mr. Krisztina Morvai! He asked me what kind of job you earn unlivable wages in. I used to work in a vacuum packaging factory for 80 500 forints, with the rent taken most of it. Unfortunately, they expect you to be mobile, and that's what they expect for a hunger wage. As long as you need any housing support, it's lost in bureaucracy and then rejected on a reasoned basis. Right now, I'm sick and tired of the fact that if you don't earn some kind of hunger, you're gonna get so sick of it, you're gonna lose your health or your mentality, you're not gonna stay alive when you're in your 20s. So if you call him an economic refugee, I became one. I've been in the UK for five weeks now, and I've been working for four weeks. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ma'am, I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm a sales employee in a German discount chain, I've worked here for six years, I'm a salesman. Local management expects the worker to show up at least one hour a day, not rarely two hours earlier, completely voluntarily and free of charge and take the job. Inter-work breaks aren't open, maybe the cashier can go out for 5-10 minutes to eat a bun fast. Today, for example, my working hours are from 15:00 to 22:00, which in practice means that I have already picked up the job at 2:00, and in good case we can come at 22.30, but 23:00 is common. Rush work, one man doing at least two of his jobs. The starting worker gets a net of 80 grand, who's been here for several years, around 116, which doesn't sound necessarily bad, but since he's rushing and stressing over 2 or 3 people, plus working hours aren't actually fixed, it's more of a scandalous category. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Noise from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Mr. Krisztina Morvai! I am so surprised that my fellow left-wing Members are not so interested in the fate of so-called Hungarian small people, and it is quite disturbing that in such shocking stories you cannot concentrate because you are talking to each other. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Why are you surprised?]] Mr. Krisztina Morvai! I'm Catherine. I work at Tesco as a technical salesman. In detail, Katalin describes the process of his work, a typical day, but I only read one detail: we have been given that we cannot talk to the customers, we need to serve them quickly and go to fill the goods. What does the stocking look like? I pull the pallet out of the warehouse with hand frogs, the weight varies between 200 and 1000 kilograms, which is very heavy, the pallet of flower fields, antifreezes, bucket paint, car batteries, I have to pull these out into the sales space alone, about 70 meters long. [[14.20]] Fireplaces, washing machines, fridges, and the rest, all by yourself, according to regulations. I have to put the remaining small-scale goods, such as microwaves, vacuum cleaners, on a shelf top of two meters high, three pieces on top of each other, and so on. My monthly average salary is HUF 87 724 without overtime. That's my salary at 54? With nearly 40 years of commercial practice? At Tesco's. I'm also a loader, a salesman, a cashier and a jackass. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another woman: "Dear Krisztina! My son is studying in Eger. I used to have to say, baby, don't come home because there's nothing to eat and we're freezing. That's what I told the mayor. I also know that a lot of us work hard for community service and get it for people who own horse farms, trade in timber, and I don't think that's really the money they need. After I told you this, I received an official letter saying that my community service job has now ceased, that there is no appeal, citing that I have already worked three months in the three years. Since I didn't get a job, in the next year's review, I didn't meet the criterion of showing a month's working time, so I didn't get any benefits, we lived without a penny for months, and I couldn't tell you how. I contacted the social worker, who was very willing to work for me, and as of May of this year I was able to do community service for six months for 50,000 forints. I was happy about that, and my daughter and I were happy because I could install a little pot stove for $15,000, and we didn't starve to death. To encourage the head of the social department, I requested the annual relief firewood, which the mayor refused as his last act, saying that my living conditions had improved significantly with public service. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My dearest Krisztina! I'm a teaching assistant at a kindergarten in Kispest. Our degree is mid-level, another year and a half after graduation. We rent 8 hours and 20 minutes net 82,000 forints. All we have is a meal contribution, and we'll pay you back for your kindergarten lunch. Our task in a group of 26-28 people is to supervise, assist and develop autistic children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another letter:, I would like to talk about the disabled pensioners, of course, the low-income people who have to work because the government has reduced the employment allowance or changed the conditions for disability, so working hours have been reduced to four hours, and this is already causing income loss. A sick person has to buy the medicine, whether he wants it or not. The medical aid must also be bought, for example, for me a hearing aid. It's not small money, it's almost 100,000 forints in one ear, plus its element. Why did you have to hurt disabled people when God beats us with both hands anyway? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My dearest Krisztina! One of my mail delivery buddies worked at the post office more than ten years ago, in snow and ice, at the age of 53 for a net salary of HUF 90,000. Imagine how much a first-time mailman makes. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Krisztina! Tell us about the frozen salary of court workers for about six years. All benefits have been taken from us in the last six years, and for example, a 40-year-old reporter working there for 12 years has a net worth of HUF 100,000. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. My dearest Krisztina! I worked in kindergarten as a nurse and retired from there from 1 October 2014. My income was less than in 2008. The income must be meant that with the additions I was able to bring home a net HUF 78,000. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another: I live and work as a property keeper in Nógrád County. That's 330 forints an hour. I get 79 200 forints for 240 hours. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Would I write the case of my brother? Someone writes: He worked as a librarian for 30 years, where he earned HUF 87 thousand until his disability pension last year. At present, you should make a living of 45,000 forints. What do I say? It was also difficult to speak because my fellow Members on the left were speaking with the same enthusiasm. The last letter is very short: Krisztina! We don't want to run, but we have to. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm asking you to recall these stories when you decide on the budget. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would also like to welcome my fellow Members from here. The next speaker is Mr Simon Miklós, from the Fidesz Group; he will be followed by László Varju, of the independent Members; and then there will be the opportunity to make two-minute speeches.
u2014-11-19-41	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, These stories, which she said, we live every day, and the reason why we have the heart to vote in favour of the 2015 budget is because we will be able to help these people, too, that is my conviction. The 2015 budget of the Ministry of Interior remains a priority for strengthening public security, developing disaster protection to protect human life and values, detecting so-called low value crimes and implementing penalties. [[Nándor Gúr will take his place in the notary's seat.]] In line with the objectives set out in the Government Programme, the Ministry of Interior and the law enforcement agencies under its control are essential to strengthen order and public security, to ensure consistent implementation of developments and organisational changes for the protection, security of citizens. Since the government's position has been established, it is clear that order and public security are one of the most important areas where the state must comply, so that the issue of public order and public security is given priority in the next year's budget as well. Ladies and gentlemen, Crime is a very serious social problem in all countries and it is therefore particularly important to prevent crime. This is what the government programme intends to do, according to which increased police presence is required in all Hungarian settlements. I'd like to look back in time. On 25 September 2013, a model public security programme was introduced in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Hajdú-Bihar, Heves, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties. Based on the results, positive feedback from the population and municipalities, in 2014, the Ministry of Interior extended this sample programme to 19 counties of the country. The programme started on 1 July in all the settlements of Hungary. Local police and district agents shall be assisted by the forces of territorial police and emergency police. The field guards and the vigilantes were involved in the work. The patrol route is designed in the light of local peculiarities and is constantly adapted to the changes. The overtime generated by the task will be redeemed in cash, and the additional resources needed to extend the programme will be provided by the government to the police from the budget. The purpose of the sample programme, which is the same as one of the main goals of the Ministry of Interior next year, is to improve the subjective sense of security for the population and reduce the number of infringements. The police will provide patrols in every settlement according to criminal and public security needs. There are settlements where recurrent checks are to be expected, but also where there is a permanent police presence as long as the situation justifies it. If necessary, the Alert Police will continue to provide strengthening forces to the county headquarters. The results of the sample program speak for themselves. In the five counties concerned, since the beginning of the program, the total crime rate has decreased by 15 percent, some 20 percent less theft and burglary, 27 percent the number of car thefts has decreased, and more smugglers and drunk drivers have been caught than before. [[14.30]] Allow me to briefly describe this 24-hour, continuous police presence programme for Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County after this programme has been operational in this county for a year. In the first ten months of 2014, police presence in the county's public areas increased by 24 percent. This means that, in addition to the 516 thousand hours in the same period in 2013, our policemen spent some 130,000 hours in public areas, of which 50,000 hours were served by the police from the Szabolcs County Police Department, while 73,000 hours were served by the police from the Alert Police. As a result of the increased presence, the number of crimes in the county decreased by 22 percent. Similarly, the number of thefts, assaults and criminal acts committed in the public area, which are particularly irritating to citizens, has decreased. The number of infringements against property has also decreased by 16 percent, including the legal institution of the accelerated procedure used in the event of a crime. In this way, the 312 million HUF cost the increased police presence in Szabolcs County to the budget. The task of the police, the achievement of the objectives set, will enable the 2015 budget to provide HUF 16.7 billion in additional resources to the organisation, which will serve the implementation of the new tasks of the organisation in 2015. From this, the portfolio provides an additional HUF 1.6 billion in 2015 to implement the public security model programme to improve the security of the population of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Next year's budget will ensure the objectives of the government programme for the continuous strengthening of public policy and public security, as the bill is designed in the spirit of stability and predictability, focusing on maintaining financial stability and reducing the burden on families. I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that, after the civilian government decided in 2002 to introduce a career model for the police stock in 2003, unfortunately this country's decision did not succeed. Now, after twelve years, it is again included in the budget, in Hungary's budget, HUF 44 billion, which means that the members of law enforcement agencies and personnel will be converted to the career model. I am very pleased about this, and I wish these figures to be further reduced in terms of the career model, as a result of improved public security. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The relevant regulation of the house rules allows the representative of the government to take part in the debate. Secretary of State Károly Kontra has asked to speak, and I give him the floor against the time frame of the Fidesz faction. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-19-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Simon Miklós for mentioning, evaluating and appreciating in his speech the budget of the Ministry of Interior, the issue of public security, the career model for armed and police protection. I think it is important that, at this stage of the debate, I, on behalf of the government, respond to this, which is what I would like to do now. Following the establishment of the Government on 29 May 2010, the second Orbán government defined the strengthening of public security as a priority national issue, and in the last four years, Parliament has adopted a great many measures, many laws and strong laws to this end. On September 25, 2013, the national police commissioner? Just like the congressman said? has imposed increased police presence and police control on five counties in the north-east-Hungary region, in which staff of the Police Department of the local county were also involved. This audit has produced results, and I would also like to describe some numbers: in the five counties, 15.1 percent fewer crimes than before; the number of thefts and burglaries decreased by 19.5 percent, the number of car thefts decreased by 27.7 percent, while, for example, the detection of drunk drivings increased by 37 percent; nearly 11 thousand people were caught for suspicion of committing a crime, and significant results were achieved to prevent crime. This public security model programme was extended by the government to all the municipalities of Hungary, all 3154 settlements of Hungary, with the decision of 1 July 2014 and thus continued in the whole country, and the police extended the public security model programme. This sample program cost nearly HUF 6 billion, the government provided the resources for this. These results show that this programme has been effective and that it will continue with regard to the future. As far as the police's budget for 2015 is concerned? Is it really as the congressman said? , HUF 16 billion more resources are available to the police according to the planned, submitted and currently discussed plan than in 2014. This budgetary resource will ensure the conditions for the effective functioning of the police, both in terms of staff salaries and in order to ensure remorse, development and technical background. Allow me to include a very important moment, which was also mentioned by the Member, and this is the launch of an armed and police career model as of 1 July 2015. If we look back on the last cycle between 2010 and 2014, we were able to raise the salary of the deputy officers and ensigns on two occasions: on the one hand, from 1 January 2012 we raised the salary of the deputy officers and the ensigns by HUF 14 thousand a month, and on the other hand from 1 January 2014 by HUF 10-10 thousand a month. Now, with the introduction of an armed and law enforcement career model, this program will start from 1 July 2015, and as a first step, will it start with an average of 30 percent from 1 July 2015? So I'm gonna say this again, on average, 30 percent? increase the salary of professional staff working in armed and law enforcement areas. With regard to the Ministry of Interior, this represents a 30% increase in salaries of police officers, firefighters, disaster control officers, those serving in prison and professional personnel serving in secret services, and we will also announce the rest of the career model. At present, the budget includes a 30 per cent salary increase on 1 July 2015, with HUF 44 billion, but otherwise it is included in this budget...? Continues and creates resources to increase the salaries of former deputy officers and ensigns. It also includes improvements, such as a HUF 1 billion HUF 200 million source for the construction of the police headquarters in Érd, and also funds to carry out all the tasks to further strengthen public safety. [[14.40]] As Mr President said, the important priority of the Ministry of Interior chapter of the 2015 budget is, on the one hand, the strengthening of public security, the protection against terrorism, the rapid and effective effective implementation of the preferential naturalisation facility for Hungarians across borders, the strengthening of disaster protection and the detection of small-value crimes, and the enforcement of sentences. I would like to highlight another very important area here in the first reflection, and that is the question of prison execution. Compared to 2010, there has been a significant increase in the number of people who charge their sentences, with a current population of 18 157, which is expected to increase to 18 500 in 2015. The budget also includes development resources for the appropriate placement of this number. The budget also includes HUF 4 billion for the establishment of the prison in Sirmabesenyő and significant resources for the expansion of four current prisons. In addition, it should be pointed out that the new Code of Correction will enter into force on 1 January 2015, which includes important rules for the effective enforcement of penalties. I would also like to point out that our further aim is to ensure that the prisoners are fully employed. Significant steps will be taken to this end in 2015. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think it is very important that the Ministry of Interior chapter has the right position in the 2015 central budget. I would like to ask my fellow Members, the honourable Parliament, to support the 2015 budget bill and the budget for the Ministry of Interior chapter. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr László Varju, who will take advantage of the time frame of 4 minutes and 40 seconds available to independent Members. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Please don't take it as disrespectful if I'd like to begin with what I have to say about your last speech and what you have to say here. 'Cause if they see together that they're on the right path, then maybe they are, but that's the way to hell they're going. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties.]] I am also saying this because, for example, when the definition of such good governance in the context of a report by the State Audit Office of the State was only repeated by the State Audit Office, it is literally said that good governance is defined by the United Nations and other organisations as a way of operating the state, characterised by consensus-searching, incentives to participate, equal opportunities, transparency, accountability, effectiveness, efficiency and respect for the rule of law. I respectfully tell you that if we look at the European statistics and look at the two extremes, one of which is the working conditions of democracy, so that I can only go back to the last, Hungary has stepped back significantly; the possibility of constitutionality has been significantly reduced. But if we look at the figures on poverty, Hungary is one of the poorest states, and there is hardly anyone behind us as a result of your governance. So I think it is no wonder that, as a representative of the Democratic Coalition, I should also stress to you that this system and the framework in which you are doing this work can, in summary, be said to be unacceptable and rejected. This is not in the interest of the Hungarian people. Accordingly, if Minister Varga has asked us and he has also referred to the fact that, in terms of helping families, creating jobs or even financial stability, we should just look at one element that they did last time to help foreign exchange creditors, then all I can say to you is to protect you, and then you will see that it will be the result of what can be read in letters. However, on the basis of their presentation, it was, of course, necessary to assess the draft budget that you have submitted to Parliament. I think there's about enough time to draw attention to two elements. I believe that from the steps and actions you have committed in recent years, one thing is certain that this budget is also the same? As opposed to all the celebrities you've been telling me? This is the budget for austerity, because the Orbán government is the government of austerity. Even though they talk about or try to cover up that there was no such thing, please remember: the Széll Kálmán plan, the 24 new taxes, the Matolcsy programme, the Varga programme, it was all about the need to improve something, because neither the revenue was fulfilled nor the expenditure. Accordingly, this budget also shows a significant part of this. The implementation of the plans that you have set out here is very unlikely, and what is involved in this is clearly about austerity. What do you mean? I'm just pointing out two things? You don't support the local government, you hold back significantly, and if you have time and money for something, it's primarily about community service. Therefore, it is no wonder that the level of family support, social spending, is falling. And what is the most dramatic example of your operation is the crimes committed in education, in your use of language, in public education. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The withdrawal there will never be forgotten by anyone. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-19-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. House rules do not allow me to respond to my opposition. There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-47	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Listening to Minister Varga and then to you as Vice-President of this House, there are revelations that are right and should be supported: strengthening families, creating jobs and developing the economy. They're all right, but I'm just wondering when Mr Vice-President is using the figures he's using, why he's not using the other half. If the story is about strengthening families, why not use the additional burden on families in the next year's budget, for example, for consumption of HUF 158 000 million. Why don't you use what's a burden to the public again? I give examples: it represents a surplus of HUF 101,000 million in tax, vehicle tax or surplus. I'd like to use these, too, because that would make the picture more accurate. In this way, both Vice-President and Minister could paint a situation that would show what the 2015 budget is really about. And I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, even so that they can use it as they go along and integrate it into their argument system. It is very important, HUF 12,000 billion is very important, this is the EU funding fund for the next seven years. If all is true, the government intends to use a HUF 7000-8000 billion of this for economic development, I say it is a very appropriate story. But I would add, Mr Vice-President, that you should take the lead in order not to keep the European Parliament flag out of this house. It is a symbol of where we belong; it is about providing us with financial opportunities for Hungary, which is unprecedented in your use of the word. That's all I wanted to say as an introduction. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr István Apáti for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I do not think that the EU flag is the most important issue for Hungary. Although there are plenty of people in this room who have no difference but to have a union; a European Union or a Soviet Union, it doesn't matter, but they feel comfortable in a union. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]] On the other hand, it must also be noted that there is a great deal of storytellers among the pro-government representatives and members of the government, because you are presenting a world of fiction that has never existed. If we didn't know which country they were talking about, we'd think it was Switzerland or Kuwait. What, on the other hand, is a naked reality? What our MEP Krisztina Morvai said here is that the vast majority of Hungarian people spend 80-100 thousand forints on net salary, if any. [[14.50]] They artificially generate jobs through the public works programme, which is virtually non-real and non-market-based. Not a word of what the Secretary of State Kontra said here about improving public security is true, because you are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, a very important fact: you have raised the infringement threshold. Has it been raised from 20 to 50,000 forints, and from now on there are lots of acts that would otherwise belong to the category of crime? Even as a misdemeanor or as a felony, but as a misdemeanor? It is a virtually non-compliance, and in this way it is great to do this statistical numerology that improved public safety on paper. Ask many small settlements in Szabolcs, Satmár or Bereg, especially where the largest minority in Hungary is already around 50 percent or above, what is the subjective sense of security of people, how is the situation with crimes against property. By the way, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that burglary is a common language name, the professional form of which is the theft committed by violence against it. Just so that if you are a State Secretary, you can try to use certain basic legal concepts with sufficient precision. None of this is true, what you have said. We should set up horse patrols in the countryside, we need more police officers, we need more paid police officers, and we need health improvements, for example. Viktor Orbán, your dear leader, spoke about hundreds of billions of hospital developments. Come to the hospital in Mátészalka, dare you tell the Matthews these hospital development theories when you're in the lab? Do you know where they treat human blood and urine? You can't go in there because it's a disease, not because of the people who work there. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Unfortunately, according to the house rules, one representative may speak for a two-minute response per faction. I've noted your intention to speak, and if that's all right, the next two minutes will be the first to go. Thank you very much. We will continue with the proper speeches. The next speaker was Mr László Földi, from the KDNP Group.
u2014-11-19-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Stability and development? I could sum up my thoughts on the 2015 budget in these two words. The fact that Hungary's management is stable is no better proof than the fact that the European Commission, which is often critical of us, acknowledges our results. In its November prognosis, the EC indicated that the general government deficit in Hungary would remain below the 3% threshold in the coming years. We could not have received much more positive feedback on the fact that the country is really on the right track. The results also show that the efforts to restore fiscal and financial balance, reduce public debt, and re-use the labour market in demand and supply, as well as to relaunch economic growth, have brought about the expected results. There is no excessive deficit procedure against us today, and the financial markets now recognise our results. Do you need more than that? Indeed, in view of the draft budget for next year, there are more opportunities and more chances. We can take as an example steps towards full employment. The measures to date have also been effective, since the number of unemployed people in Hungary has fallen to the greatest extent, employment has peaked at 22 years in the last year, the number of people employed has been above 4 million for months, and the unemployment rate has now fallen to 7.4 percent. This process must not stop. Next year, EU funds will start coming to our country, and obviously more than 60 percent will go to job-creating developments. As a man living in the lowlands, it is important to me that the situation of agriculture and the development of agriculture are important. Will the government transform the agricultural support system in the future in such a way that resources are given primarily to the sectors that create jobs? livestock, gardening, fruit and vegetables production. Purchasing and selling cooperatives in the producer sector are also exempt from local business tax. As with the VAT of live and half-carcases, from 1 January 2015 the VAT rate applicable to the sale of large live animals, bovine, ovine and caprine animals and carcases as intermediate products will be reduced from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. Given the further reduction in the burden on families, this can be considered a very significant step. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The safety of our family and family is important to all of us. The latter requires strong, visible, criminal-prevention law enforcement bodies. For this reason, the armed and police career model will be launched in 2015 in addition to the further development of the existing teaching career model. The staff in this sector will increase by 30 percent in July 15. Next year's salary increase may be followed by further wage increases. The government will also develop a new housing support programme for law enforcement workers. And, as we have heard, Minister and Group Leader have also started negotiations for those working in the social field in order to introduce a career model for those working in the social field. These are also the topics highlighted in the draft budget that I believe in: Hungary continues to stand on stable feet and is developing dynamically. Please, ladies and gentlemen, support the bill that has been tabled and vote for it in the vote. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-53	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The budget for 2015 is, in my reading, a perverted redistribution. It deepens the gap, deepens poverty and widens poverty against the poor. You just have to think about what's going on. Whether we are talking about personal income tax, a single-key rate of 16 per cent, whether we are talking about VAT, 27 per cent VAT at the European and world championship peak, and correspondingly other burdens that are multiplied in relation to food testing; obviously, there is a situation that leads to a far-reaching majority of people experiencing that the coming period is worse for them, next year than it was before. This is also explained by the fact that the most important value, children, falls into even more miserable situations. 35-36 percent of children in Hungary suffer from virtually unacceptable poverty. It is, in practice, Bulgaria who is now one hair away from the countries that exist in our environment, who is able to give a slightly worse picture of the situation. Perhaps these are part of the statistical series that touches people individually and individually. It's worth talking about. It is no coincidence that when you abolished the possibility of a tax credit, it is not a coincidence that when you made the increase in the amount of VAT mentioned above, it was practically the case that 4.5 million people were placed below the minimum of living. It is no coincidence that more than one million people who work work work, work, but can obtain less than the minimum amount of money and resources. And, you know, it's not a coincidence that the resources we've acquired are going to be a little bit too far away in people's lives. For the public worker, this looked like he had HUF 60 200 four years ago, the minimum salary was higher than the minimum wage received, HUF 77-78,000. That was also a big difference, 18,000 forints. But in today's life, does it look like you're getting about 51,000 forints? You know, that ominous 47,000, now it's up to 51,000? , the minimum of living is 88,000. There is a difference of 36-37 thousand forints. [[15.00]] They doubled the difference between the money received in the hands of the public worker and the minimum living, but not for the benefit of the money they received, but for the benefit of the minimum living. Well, that's what you've brought to people's lives for the past four years. But the minimum wage looks the same. With regard to the minimum wage, the minimum wage that people take into their hands in terms of purchasing power is worth less than it was four years ago, while you posted a poster about how and how the gross increase in the minimum wage looks. Yeah, it just doesn't appear in the pockets. But it's not just public workers, it's minimum wage. I look at Secretary Kontra, but I look at anyone else, and then I think about what's in the public sector. What's going on in the public sector is that for the fifth year since they've been in government, the civil servant's salary hasn't changed for a penny, 38 650 forints in five years. Before that, there were one year, two of them, but never since the moment of the change of regime, there was no increase in the civil servant's salary base within a given cycle. Well, in your four-year cycle, he didn't grow a single penny. You guys could come up with compensations like that. Then I'll tell you to look at the cafeteria system, what you did with it. Six years ago, the exemption for the cafeteria system was present. Now what? If the person concerned does not use the SZÉP card, he will face the nearly 52 per cent burden for the order of magnitude above 200,000 forints. So, so, as a hundred words, I want to say that you have brought to life a situation where the situation of a far-reaching majority of society has not improved, but has become worse, while the rate of family and social support shows a downward trend. But it's not the only thing to talk about. It is also possible to talk about the weakening of the forint in this time band. Do you remember him? Do you remember the EUR 265? Do you remember the Swiss franc of 180 forints? Now they remember what is happening in these weeks, that HUF 310 is the amount of the euro that can be purchased and the Swiss franc is around HUF 245. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] What I'm trying to say is that when I don't go along with saving foreign exchange credentials, whatever they've been talking about for five years, and they haven't done anything, or what they've done, it's shameful, and then I'll tell you why. [[Dr. Vas Imre is laughing.]] , then they must see...? Yeah, yeah, they need to see that they've created a situation where they're gonna take a lot of money from people again, and then they're gonna give you back a little lollipop, and they're gonna tell you to have a good time. That's what should be forgotten, what should be done differently. In relation to the multitude of measures that you have called for life, investment in Hungary will be reduced, and employment growth in the economic sphere will not result as a result. No, they're making this country a country for the public. There's nothing wrong with having a public servant, no. It wouldn't be a problem if all the public workers could do value-creating work. The problem is that they took a third of their money and paid them much less money than we paid before. Denied, distorted, I can also say that they are virtually trying to create a picture of what a good situation people live in, but that's not really the reality. No, it's not! Matolcsy himself said that it was no accident that 500 to 600 thousand people fled abroad as economic refugees. It's no coincidence today that, through the statistics, they're turning the 8-hours into 4-hours, and they're taking it into account as if it's an 8-hour period. It is no coincidence that hundreds of thousands of public workers, with the exception of unemployment benefits, will be taken into employment status, while you know that the forints of tax production are not born here. So, what I'm trying to say is that they're trying to get a distorted image accepted by society, and that's what they're trying to do to create a situation like everything's okay. However, it is important to know that, in addition to all this, the picture of the situation that has been drawn in terms of public debt or deficit has not changed in recent years. It hasn't changed, it's not more positive. You confiscated HUF 3000 billion of private pension fund savings, while burning these funds, while people are facing the fact that, for example, the level of public debt is 83 percent. They don't collect potential income. Yeah, there are some, I'll tell you a few. We can think of farmland through offshore companies that result from VAT fraud, but much else? or issues arising from corruption. They're not taking it, but they're giving this country unnecessary expenses. Next year, they want to spend around HUF 50,000 on stadium construction. They squeeze me, they create a state of social conflict. We have already drawn your attention to the fact that this should not be done, this is not the use of this country. In fact, with regard to the aforementioned consumption taxes, i.e. taxes, motor vehicle taxes, they should be thinking about much more about how to reduce the burden on people. I said I'd give you a few thoughts in foreign currency; yes, I'd say about foreign exchange creditors. Remember 2001 Orbán, Járai, Matolcsy you must know the name. Okay, so you know that's how the process started, and that's where it started. Remember what happened in 2010. Probably, Kósa, the names of Szijjártó are not unknown to you. And when the exchange rate has been weakened, remember, in terms of final repayment, when such a shameful law was passed between Parliament's walls...? You know, you, some of you who have paid tens of millions of forints, the source of these funds and their origins couldn't have been investigated by the National Tax and Customs Office. That's perfectly all right, so that's how it works for small businesses, microwaves, they can't be investigated in any way. Remember that in 2014, now, this year, state profit is practically how and how it is done in relation to the weakened forint in relation to the Hungarian National Bank, and not the budget is given access to the resources to which it should be obtained, and today we should discuss how and how those funds can be used. It should always float before their eyes that, in terms of reducing social expenditure, the family allowance is now about to be reduced by HUF 13 billion, with a risk of HUF 6.5 billion. A reduction of about HUF 36 000 million will be made in terms of pre-age benefits. Pre-age benefits: Processes expire on 31 December 2014. But you need to think about what you want to do in this regard. Or the pension, when 9,1% of the money produced is spent on this, which is a decreasing rate compared to last year. The contribution to the social security funds will also be reduced. The municipalities are also getting less money. To conclude, all I can say to you is that there is one item for the National Employment Fund, which is growing. You know, it's the Start Work Programme, the Public Works Programme, with a budget of 270 billion. But all other funds spent on active employment policies and passive instruments are being reduced. I give three examples: as regards employment and training grants, HUF 21 000 million less, HUF 5300 million less in contribution allowances, HUF 9500 million less in vocational and adult education than in 2010. In the meantime, in terms of vocational education and training contributions, they collect more than HUF 13 500 million from businesses. This is your policy, and in the meantime, the possibility of acquiring knowledge is being taken away from young people today. This shame, this should be changed, the amending budgets should be directed in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-19-54	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Károly Kontra asked for the floor. Here you are, Secretary of State, at the expense of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-19-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to Nándor Gúr's lie shower, a flood of lies, which has been said in a significant part of his speech. [[Nándor Gúr: Read the budget!]] He called off the public employment and the public workers in his speech. I would like to make it clear that, since 29 May 2010, we have made it clear that we are providing people with work instead of aid. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] When we took over the government on 29 May 2010, honourable Member, there were nearly 600,000 people living on aid... (Nándor Gúr intervenes) Will you listen to me? I listened to it, too. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, please allow the Member, who seems to find it difficult to take another opinion, to calm down and listen to my comments. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-56	I would ask the Member to step up to his seat, to fulfil his duties as notary, and this will also resolve this debate. Here you go. [[A round of applause from the governing parties and the Jobbik benches.]] [[15.10]]
u2014-11-19-57	I'd be happy to have the congressman stay in the horseshoe, but I'm asking you, according to the rules of democracy, that you are an Audiatur et altera pars. So you want the other party to listen? And I would like to respond to what he has said. So when we took over the government on May 29, 2010, nearly 600,000 people lived on aid of HUF 22 800 per month. We said that we made it clear that we were giving people jobs instead of aid. That is why we have created the public employment programmes, the Start sample programme, the municipal and other public employment programmes. The 2015 budget includes HUF 270 billion in this respect, which is HUF 35 billion more than the data of 14 and allows tens of thousands of people to participate in public employment. I will also say here in front of this House, ladies and gentlemen, that our goal is for everyone to have a job by 2018. So anyone who wants to work in Hungary can work. I ask my fellow socialists to support this. I would like to say to Nándor Gúr's critical comment on the employment of the public sector and on the salary of civil servants and government officials that the public service career to be introduced in 2015, which applies on the one hand to armed and law enforcement workers and on the other, to government officials, on the other hand, is a total of 160,000 people. We would like us to pay appropriate salaries for the teachers' careers and for those working in the social field, as well as for government officials, and subsequently for other employment sectors of the public sector. But I would like to say that we would be in a much easier position if, between 2002 and 2010, when you hit this country with your government for 8 years, you had given adequate salaries to public sector workers, such as civil servants, such as civil servants or professional staff. Because, by the way, the country remembers that at your time, tens of thousands of professional personnel left the service. That's when these people retired at 38-40, 40-some years of age, weakening service. And the reason for the situation in Hungary is that the most important task in the 2010 campaign has been to restore public security. So, honourable Member Nándor Gúr, if you had put it a little more modestly, and given your 8 years in mind, you would have made your statements and taken into account the reality, you would have expressed more respect for the progress made by the hundreds of thousands of people employed in public employment. After all, I would like to say that I value the work of people who participate in these programmes, because they themselves contribute to providing for their families and their own livelihoods. I hope that public employment will become a practical opportunity for more people in 2015 with the adoption of the budget. Not to mention, many people from public employment have been able to go to the market. Sándor Czomba could talk about this in detail about the figures for 2014 and 13. But it is important that this process is further strengthened and continued. As regards the comment of Mr István Apáti on the cosmetics of data, I would like to reject it. Honourable Congressman, The data I have presented about the five counties in East Hungary are real data. That's what we're saying, anyway, that's what we're trying to do. [[György Szilágyi and Dániel Z. Karpat intervene.]] and I said that we want to further strengthen public safety. We didn't say anything about not committing a crime or being satisfied. We said that this programme has brought results [[István Apáti intervenes.]] , and based on these results we would like to continue in 2015... Mr President, the better Members [[György Szilágyi: The genre of shouting in Parliament? The president's ringing the bell.]] Please allow me to continue my comment. Congressman Lords! [[István Apáti: I am sorry to disturb you.]] It didn't bother me. I'm about to move on to an area that's likely to disturb you. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to say that we would have achieved much greater results if, for example, my better fellow Members had the laws that we have tabled in Parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and they would have served to strengthen order throughout the country, including in Eastern Hungary, they would have supported it. [[There's a lot of noise in the Jobbik faction.]]
u2014-11-19-58	Fellow Members! This isn't middle B. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] This is Parliament's plenary session... Congressman, if you want me to take the floor from you for today, you can continue to do so. [[György Szilágyi: Invoking is a parliamentary genre.]] Congressman, let's not argue with each other, okay? ? I'm asking you to comply with the parliamentary rules. What belongs in the benches of Parliament is used here, which is used in the centre B of Ferencváros and there. With all due respect, this way. [[György Szilágyi: It does not contain reality.]]
u2014-11-19-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to continue with my comments, my response. Once again, I would like to say that if my better fellow Members had voted in favour of the laws which would have served to strengthen order and public security, we would have been able to broadcast even more social support and probably have achieved even better results. But I would like to stress that in 2015, the public safety model programme will continue, and in the counties of East Hungary, including Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, I trust that the police will achieve even better results. After all, our goal is to prevent crime and to bring the crimes that are being committed to justice and to bring the perpetrators to justice. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Ildikó Vida!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the budget, in particular with regard to the appropriations provided for in Section BM. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-60	Thank you very much. Minister of State Sándor Czomba has asked to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-19-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Without losing much of Fidesz time, allow us to put some important points on the table on employment policy issues. It is a budget, and it does not matter whether the number and number of the 2015 budget include the possibility of increasing employment primarily in the competition sector in 2015. Allow me to have a few thoughts on this. It is no longer a question for anyone today that after 22 years the number of employees in Hungary is now above 4 million for 11 months. In 2010, the Hungarian government decided on a clear programme to increase employment. Here the question was whether we should wait until the competitive sector could produce the employment growth that we would like and keep hundreds of thousands of people on welfare during the period of recovery from the crisis. Or let us not take this path, but let us give it until there is competitive employment, through public employment pay and not aid for hundreds of thousands of people in areas or areas of the country where there is still no competition as we would like. We chose the second, and I think life has proven us. Because from the second half of 2013, the vast majority of new jobs created in Hungary were created in the competitive sphere? Point 1.1.2. I don't think that's worth arguing about, because KSH clearly sees it. But perhaps more important than KSH...? Mr Gur also indicated that only statistics and cosmetics were available. Fellow Members! If it was just the statistics on employment, Fidesz doesn't have two-thirds now. That is my sacred belief, because statistics cannot be used for a living. And according to the statistics, those unfortunate people that Krisztina Morvai indicated...? Of course, I get one of these every day as Secretary of State and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. We're far from where we want to be, of course. There's a lot of problems, a lot of trouble, of course. It would be very nice if the minimum wage were to rise, of course. It would be great if we were closer to the minimum of living. It's not true either, I'm just opening a parenthesis, by the way, that the proportional difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, right, was 70 percent around 2011, and now we're at about 74 percent. Of course, that's a big difference, but the trend here is worth watching. It has been said that we are part-time and that the statistics are improving. Ladies and gentlemen, Today in Hungary 3 million out of roughly 4 million 200,000 people work full-time and 300,000 working part-time. And the number of part-time employees is constantly decreasing? Point 1.1.2. You can argue about that, but it's just not worth it, because the numbers, I think, are stubborn things. [[15.20]] National Employment Fund: I would like to draw attention here, and also later, if someone reads the fund just how much less money is shown on the different lines compared to the previous year, then this can actually come out mathematically. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that about 60 percent of all EU funds are devoted to economic development, including some HUF 1200 billion for job creation and job development. All options where we can replace EU funds and save domestic resources, we want and will use them. This is what it is about when you see perhaps 13 billion minus in one line, but it is very easy to expect, indeed I can say to you that instead of 13, let us say, 18 billion is used by the EU fund. In Hungarian, the source available for job creation will also be insured in the following year, there will be lines where to a greater extent, different benefits. In particular, with regard to unemployment benefits, we predict that fewer people will be reduced. But here I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this line is open from above, so in Hungarian, if you do not give it, God, there is a greater demand, then, of course, the budget must be good in this respect and it will be good. And while I have the floor here, there are no more people here who have cut down the half-brick and moved away, so I do not really want to respond to it in substance or severely, but I would like to be allowed a few thoughts on training and on vocational training in general. At the moment, the demographic problem is one of the problems. In 1990, 175,000 students graduated in the 8th grade, while last year 120,000 students graduated. We're down by a third, that's a serious problem. The other is the structural problem. While the number has decreased, it seems that in 90, he graduated from about 40,000 high schools and 40,000 specialized students and 90,000 specialized students. Last year, 43,000 high school students, 36,000 high school students and 25,000 specialized students, while industry would be looking for the welder, the tinker, the automation technician, the mechanical engineer, and I could tell you more, but I don't. If we're looking from here in masks, there's no tinker, and even if it's a construction company, it's not. In Hungarian, let's put the problem on the table and see how you can intervene in the training system in such a way that the needs of the labour market are better adapted to the needs of this reduced number of people, as there is a demographic problem. And in my reading? Excuse me for simplifying things? How many g's you write a welder is not a matter of graduation, it's something you have to teach in elementary school. We're arguing here and there's usually a debate about how everyone should graduate, that's for sure, and after graduation, they'll learn the profession in a couple of years of different adult education. This should also be possible, and it is possible to do so now, so you have to open the system, it can be penetrated from the bottom to the top and from the top down, but what difference is there, let's say, between doing five years in high school with a two, you get the slaps from life, and then you realize that you can't do anything in the world on the job market with your 2nd graduation, you find yourself a 1-year education quickly, you find one, but you've had five years of your life? You obviously can't learn a profession in a year like you did in a vocational school in three years? and will be practically on a continuous basis in the labour market. Could he have spent the same five years enrolling in a three-year vocational school, not only on paper in the three years, but also actually mastering a specialty, giving him two years if he had the chance? Is there a legal possibility for this right now? It's the same thing as graduation and profession, but there's a difference between the two. So what we want is for the career choice to really look like everyone can choose a profession according to their abilities, abilities and opportunities. And, fellow Members, do not be alarmed by the fact that it will be half the number of high school classes, and I do not know how much it will be. Responsible government politician has not given us any figures on how and in what way we intend to transform it. Everyone who has the talent, the talent and wants to go to college, the university, we recommend the high school in the first place. Here, I would like to add an exclamation mark that vocational schools are also giving graduations, and even a year's head-on tech qualification, so that they can work on the labour market on a much wider spectrum, mister's pardon. Nice young people? Although few people listen to us at this time, and few of the young people, especially by watching Parliament's broadcast, would you like to send them a message from here? "Everyone's fate is important to us, but in order for us to be able to get rid of the sufferings and troubles that we've been carrying on the labour market and training for decades, and to be able to give them more chances, we need to make adjustments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Vas Imre is next. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-63	Dear House, Mr President, As a member of the Judicial Committee, I would like to comment briefly on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015. After the elections in 2014, as a result of the structural changes in the committees of the Parliament, nationalities and civil affairs fall within the remit of the Committee on Justice, as a result of the reduction of the number of Members of Parliament; there is obviously an exception to matters of nationality which belong to the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. The Fundamental Law of Hungary XXIX. Article 4 of the Treaty provides for nationalities. In this regard, it can be said that in the last cycle we have recorded at the highest level that nationalities are state-creating factors and that any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. The fundamental law on the rights of nationalities adopted in 2011 sets out the individual and Community rights of nationalities. Consequently, budget appropriations in the management of the area of nationality provide a significant source of funding to support the expression of the individual and Community rights of persons belonging to nationalities, as well as the interests of those belonging to nationalities, thus contributing in particular to the preservation of the identity of national minorities, the maintenance of their mother tongue, their historical traditions and their intellectual and material monuments, the organisation of events defining national or regional cultural autonomy, linguistic and cultural identity. Another objective could be to develop a system of institutions implementing the cultural autonomy of nationalities and to comply with the recommendations of the joint minority committees operating under agreements with neighbouring countries. In 2014, on the basis of the recommendations, the Hungarian government supported the reconstruction and renovation of the Croatian Theatre in Pécs of 600 million HUF, as well as the renovation of the building of the Hungarian-Slovak School of Nationalities and College in Tátaljaújhely. In this connection, I would like to note that any national minority in Hungary has the right to maintain and operate a school, which I believe is one of the keys to the future of a given community. The submitted draft budget will also ensure the enforcement of the listed national minority rights in 2015 by means of normative or tender grants, whether it is ethnic cultural initiatives, ethnic educators' further education, ethnic popular, artistic, traditional camps or ethnic scholarships. I think it is important to point out that the centres of nationality public life are national authorities, so that their functioning is ensured by the draft budget for next year. The ethnic advocates do their work among us, within the walls of the House. [[15.30]] I consider it historic that nationalities can exercise their interest-giving activities at parliamentary level. The necessary financial resources are also available in the budget. It shall coordinate the tasks of the government, civil and social relations development in the field of responsibility for the development of social and civil relations, and shall also carry out tasks related to the operation of the National Cooperation Fund with a view to improving the functioning of civil society organisations and public benefit organisations. The field of expertise will ensure the development of service and development programmes to promote the strengthening of the civil sector, the development and operation of an IT system to ensure dialogue with civil society. Thanks to the amendment of the Civil Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2015, the appropriation of the National Cooperation Fund will increase to HUF 5.4 billion with a surplus of HUF 2 billion. Thus, civil society organisations receive significant support for their day-to-day operation, socially useful and community-creating activities, public interest and public benefit activities. That is why I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary of the Parliament, would like to order.
u2014-11-19-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, let me begin my speech with a personal remark. I have lived my childhood in communism, so that I could learn what the demagogic propaganda machine of socialism and the language of what we now identify with the concept of the Orwell novel. At the time of the change of regime, I did not think there would ever be an era in Hungary when we would have to learn to interpret the same double speech. And, look, the government that claimed to be national and Christian has never developed Orwell's new talk into a professionalism that has never been experienced in history. Since it became an integral part of our daily life, it was freezing to hear from representatives of the government when they argued that the scope of the local government would expand from 2015 onwards. Translated into Hungarian, instead of Fidesz Orwelli's new talk, this means that not only will the local government's scope increase according to the budget bill, but it will narrow down. After all, we know the password is "freedom is servitude." What does this narrowing mean, according to the bill? What's this about? The restructuring of the income replacement scheme, i.e. the change in the replacement rate of aid for employment and the abolition of the central budget contribution to regular social assistance and housing support, will lead to a significant hole in the municipalities' budgets. If we want to translate this, say, to the budget of a major town in North-East Hungary, then these are just the three items that I have just said to you, i.e. the reduction of the aid intensity of the fht, the regular social aid and the elimination of the contribution to housing, these three are about 450 million HUF lost in the budget of a local government. This is a loss of magnitude which, in our understanding, cannot be replaced, and it will be very difficult for the municipalities to manage this in such a way that at least they do not lack a paper form. Giving work instead of aid is a principle initiated by Jobbik, but we never thought that this should not be achieved in a balanced and rational way. Antal Rogán, one of the leading speakers of Fidesz, acknowledged that they would not be able to provide work for everyone, they would not be able to provide public service for everyone, so that the conversion of social support in this way will not be sustainable. He himself admitted that, I'm telling you, recently here in public in the country. And now a State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy has just said that it has come up in the context of public employment to pay wages, or it should be interpreted as a kind of social policy benefit, and they voted in favour of the former. However, I do not really understand, I must be honest with you, the justifications which, by the way, refer to the annexes to the draft law and are part of the formal justification that social aid will not otherwise be reduced, because what the municipalities will not receive in this way will be received through the system of public employment. So now it would be good to decide within the Ministry of National Economy how to interpret public employment: as a job or as a social policy benefit? At the same time, the fact that you take these subsidies away from the municipalities from one moment to the next, but there are no jobs, no jobs created by the government in rural areas, will create terrible social tensions. This translate means that all the responsibility will be put on the hands of the municipalities, and they will try to solve the pressure created by unpaid aid and uninsured work! But, since you are also thinking about a miracle weapon, it is called a municipal tax, so you think that if the settlement, the municipality, rejects this kind of municipal tax, then briefly, simplifying the problem: social aid can be paid from the small pensioner's municipal tax. I think it's a very bad idea. The Hungarian countryside is waiting for a resurrection, the Hungarian countryside would want to live, on the other hand, this path, which the government is now offering them, will mean that rural Hungarians will continue to be poor, as they will be burdened with additional taxes, in order to be able to distribute aids to alleviate social and social tensions in some way. But these taxes can no longer be charged because there is no one to impose them on. You want to tax pensioners? Or were young people who were long gone from Hungary because they emigrated, staggered as economic refugees from Hungary? But, Mr Secretary of State, I am very pleased that you have come in here, and I am now able to have a word with you in this regard: I think that there is an opportunity in the Hungarian budget, in the draft budget, and also in the tax laws closely linked to it, that the holes that you are cutting in the budgets of the municipalities will be replaced in some way. Here is, for example, not to go too far, our offshore terminator, Andy Vajna's support system, which you provide by offering the possibility of online casinos, which the Hungarian government now creates, a huge, hundred billion-dollar market as a gift to Andy Vajna himself. Therefore, there is already an opportunity in this draft law, or in the laws associated with it, to address such problems. So we think that this kind of dead-end thinking, that you say that you will give us more leeway by imposing new taxes on local governments, is in no way sustainable. But I would like to go on, because there is another part of this bill, which applies to the budget of the municipalities. [[15.40]] In particular, the financing of public tasks; typically it does not increase by a penny compared to last year, which also did not increase compared to the previous year. We know there is inflation in Hungary, regardless of any statistical tricks, there is serious inflation in Hungary. This means, therefore, that if these resources do not increase, the level of these services will fall drastically in some way. This topic is also closely linked to the fact that the biggest losers of the Őszihart are, among other things, utility services operated by the municipalities and the companies that maintain them, and typically the municipalities have to make up for their budgets in order to be able to operate at all, whichever one they can keep alive at all. This is not a good system either, but don't think about what you have come up with, and it has already been mentioned in the Hungarian press that all this problem will be covered with a large super-holding, the so-called national utility provider. I am convinced that just as the holding company in every big fidesz city was only a hotbed of dog and corruption, so this great super-hold is the only way to do it. Another very serious problem that the government should now address urgently. How much we heard about him in 2011, 2012 when the Fidesz government successfully fought the war of independence against the IMF! Then I would ask with deep respect that the civil servant's salary fund, which is the sad legacy of the Gyurcsány era, namely that the IMF's dictatorship was signed in November 2008 by Gyurcsány to accept that this civil servant's salary fund will not be raised, why the Fidesz government will carry on this sad legacy. Once we've successfully fought our freedom fight, why can't we shake this dictatorship off? In the mayor's offices I'm talking about, they work 8-10 hours a day with basically hunger wages, and otherwise they have 30-40 years of employment behind their backs, which they worked with honor and honor. I think it would be worthwhile for the government to turn to them, help them and provide basic civil servants' salaries, and, through this, pay their wages in substance, as well as, ultimately, the salaries of mayors of small settlements. In another keynote speech, I heard from my fellow Member from Harghitai that you made a big mistake. That's right. Finally, the Fidesz government recognises that it made a mistake. It is true, after all, that this is only a small piece of the national economy, but the more important problem, since we know that mayors living in small settlements, those who work there, are actually serving 0-24 hours. So what you're about to get is a shame. It would also be good to settle this issue, as well as the draft budget law. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-19-66	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Now is the opportunity for two-minute speeches. First up, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-67	Mr President, Dear House, I have to respond to Mr Secretary of State Kontra's amazing speech on improving public security. Secretary of State, stats forgery or not, answer one thing manlylyly, please: have you raised the infringement threshold or not? Have they raised the threshold by which many previous crimes have now become only a misdemeanor? If it's raised, does that affect the statistics or not? At the same time, he mentioned the total employment of prisoners, which could and could be an eligible target. But there is a problem in Hungary that is increasingly affecting public security, namely the refugee issue, which we cannot find substantial and qualitatively sufficient resources to settle in the budget. You can see that 2013 data is the last available. More than 20,000 so-called refugees have arrived in Hungary. We visited the Director of the Immigration Office, who admitted that the majority of these refugees will disappear from the sight of the Hungarian authorities within weeks. Typically, they go to Western Europe on foot. But more than 10,000 people, including potential criminals, are those who have been imposed by the laws of the Islamic countries, coming through Hungary, carrying, where appropriate, various diseases, most of them? I'm gonna say it again? It's gone. So if you want to increase the subjective sense of security of the population, shouldn't you think that ten thousand or more potential offenders shouldn't feel comfortable in Hungary? Where appropriate, border protection could be improved, where appropriate, in an area which is now partially or entirely open and inhabited, incredibly closed, which is also the goal of the population in all areas concerned. And speaking of which, how much do you consider it sustainable that the total maintenance costs of refugees coming here, real refugees and the criminals involved in them are borne by the Hungarian taxpayers? Jobbik's amendments and improvements are included, they'll be there for the budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] You can then prove that you are able to support our proposals based on common sense or not. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-19-68	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Károly Kontrat is next.
u2014-11-19-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the following questions from my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, Mr Z. Honourable Congressman, Just last year, the Hungarian Parliament amended the law on migration and asylum to present the government. The essence of this was, one of its important institutions, the establishment of asylum detention, which allowed more stringent, effective and effective action against the refugees you mentioned. I'm very sorry that the better guys, including you, didn't vote for this bill. Congressman, what moral basis do you have to ask these questions when you do not support them before Parliament? They could at least do so as opposition representatives to vote in favour of these laws. But you didn't vote for it. Nevertheless, Parliament has adopted this law and this law is being applied. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government, the Ministry of the Interior, the police are doing everything in their power to protect Hungary's borders, so that Hungary's borders cannot be crossed illegally. At the same time, there are refugees who are coming to Hungary, but we are applying the Hungarian laws, and we are also complying with the EU's commitments. We strive to ensure that economic refugees do not come to Hungary. On economic refugees, we have made the government's position clear. I ask my honourable fellow Member and his faction [[Gergely Farkas: But when will you answer the question?]] In order to support future legislative proposals that serve Hungarian national interests, the security of Hungarian borders and strengthen the Hungarian asylum position. Because our goal is to enforce the country's national interests. As for the order of the camps, I would like to say that the staff of the reception stations are doing a very serious job. I would also like to thank you for the difficult service they are performing. They cooperate with the local authorities, as the staff of the Immigration and Nationality Office, the police, the local authorities, the civil society guard, the civil society organisations living and operating in the areas are all serving the purpose and working to ensure that these people also comply with the laws, these people, these refugees, while staying here in Hungary, comply with the laws at the reception station, and do not pose a threat to citizens living in those settlements. So, honourable Member, I would like to say these things, and I have said that if you make such a comment, you should first consider what you have done or what you have not done on this issue. I would like to say, while we are talking about the fact that the 2015 budget proposal contains the resources necessary for the effective functioning of the Immigration and Nationality Office, it contains the resources needed for the functioning of the police responsible for the protection of borders. I would like to say that last year we have strengthened the protection of the Hungarian-Serbian border section, and we have conducted significant police forces in this area. With the tools of diplomacy, Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, in cooperation with the Serbian and Austrian Ministers of Interior, is working to prevent economic refugees from coming from the Serbian side and to cooperate with the Hungarian authorities and the competent bodies of the European Union, whose experts are also at the border. They also work to prevent these refugees from entering the territory of the European Union, because this Serbian-Hungarian border section is the external border of the European Union. [[15.50]] So we are doing everything we can to ensure that Hungarian national interests are enforced and that we can achieve even better results in this area in 2015. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Change in the default threshold?]] I will also answer, honourable Member, to the change in the threshold of infringement, but I would like to say that in 2010, following the formation of the government, one of the first laws we put before Parliament was the amendment of the Code of Violations, namely the creation of the possibility of detention in the event of non-compliance with small-value assets. Those who were still members of Parliament remember this, it was a very important step, and we were able to achieve very good results, and the deterrent force of this measure was significant. I don't know. And I'd like to tell you now? I'm not saying they haven't committed such violations since. They have committed but have committed much fewer such violations, and as a result of this deterrent effect, this has dropped significantly in small settlements and especially in North-East Hungary. I remember when, in 2008, the mayor of Sajóbábony turned to the president of the then National Assembly, contacted the Defence and Police Committee, and asked for restrictions, and the then government did not do enough. We accepted this in 2010, after the government was founded, and I remember that this amendment entered into force on 19 August 2010, this tightening up. And as for the change in the default threshold, it has indeed happened, but the results are not better. I have listed types of crime that are not crimes against property, and there have also decreased significantly, and the number of crimes in the public domain has also been significantly reduced. You know, honourable Member, these are facts. And once again, we are determined to continue this work in 2015, to strengthen public security, and I ask you to support it, because every crime we can prevent does not need to be investigated, there is no victim, there is no judicial case in that. It is important to achieve even better results in 2015 in these areas, in the public safety model programme and in other police and police programmes. I believe that this is a common national interest, and we would like to gain the agreement of all the political groups in this Parliament, all the Members, so I would like to ask you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do I respectfully inform my fellow Members who came forward at two minutes that the Secretary of State was overdue, that in that case? Is that how the house rules say it? If the Government is the author of the agenda, the representative of the Government shall speak in the debate without a time limit. So we will continue with the two-minute speeches, from the group of the MSZP, to be followed by Mrs Bangóné Borbély Ildikó. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Several of you have spoken before me about the recovery of housing, and here we need to clarify a few questions, the question of benchmarking everything. This year's new apartment number is only a quarter of the previous crisis in 2008. In the first three-quarters of the year, a total of 5200 apartments were built throughout the country, showing the unusually large territorial differences that almost half of the apartments in Central Hungary, 49.4 percent in Central Hungary, while 13.5 percent in Győr County, in all other counties, only one third of the apartments were built, in South Transdanubia, North Great Plain and South Great Plain, only 400-400 apartments in Central Transdanubia 300, in North Hungary only 200 apartments. I'd like to say one more number: In 2010, 20,823 apartments were built? Well, we can't talk about a big recovery. I would like to respond to Mr President's words about the introduction of the chocolate programme, from HUF 4 billion. In the 2015 budget there is HUF 144.8 billion for housing construction, of which HUF 4 billion for the chocolate program. You could say that they kiss young people well because they forgot to say that this is nine percent less than in the 2014 budget, there were 159.2 billion in the 2014 budget and 144 billion in 2015. They forgot to tell the young people that they cut this amount by much, HUF 15 billion. So, thank you very much, we don't want the kiss.
u2014-11-19-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-19-73	Thank you very much. I'd just like to recalibrate two data. About this year, from this Socpol type of support, which will be a family home-building discount next year, young people will draw around 700-750 million forints, and we will extend this to a 4 billion-dollar framework; from 750 to 4 billion, this is quite a big expansion. It is already available with a child, not only for the purchase of a new apartment, but also for the purchase, renovation and expansion of a used apartment, so the possibility for young people is clearly increasing. It is also important that Hungary is starting to come out nicely from a low point since 2013. The construction permits, the 30 percent increase in the construction of new apartments, I think it's nice. It is far from there, as before socialist governance, before you have sunk this country to a low point in 2008, but it is coming up nicely and the construction industry is pulling the entire economy. Dear Socialist Members, Perhaps you are not, my dear congresswoman, but your fellow parties are still between 2002 and 2004? Although Péter Medgyessy told the Fidesz government about his interest-supported home creation program that it was a good thing, should it be extended? In two years, however, several steps were beaten up until 2004, which was one of the causes of a setback in the housing and housing market; the other is the mortgage crisis, which also occurred because of the helplessness of the MSZP. We are glad that we have managed to correct these mistakes, and now we have more opportunities for young people than we had before. If your prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gordon Bajnai hadn't taken on the loans, especially the IMF loan, and we didn't have to count these payments year after year in the budget, then we could have spent 7.5 times the highest value on housing subsidies, but the debt service would have put Hungary back and bound. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For a two-minute comment, István Happy is next, from Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-75	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs to have a little more confidence in local government leaders. I, who led a small community for 20 years, think that since the task funding and since the debt was removed from the settlements, we have been in a much better position. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] The thing is, obviously, those who are involved in this every day as leaders, and I can safely say that seeing the other settlements, which, say, are in my constituency, can be said for all settlements. They have much less extra resources than they had before, they have been freed from their burdens, since we have taken the debt, taken over it, and the task funding finances most of their tasks; where they do not finance it, the government has still helped. The situation is this: the municipal tax is an option, and I think that the municipalities that want to develop in addition will take advantage of this possibility. For example, I myself know of the introduction of a municipal tax that might, I should say, involve a layer that can pay for it calmly. I wouldn't tell you this right now, because every government leader in his own town will figure out how he intends to develop his settlement. So I'm asking you not to worry about the mayors of the settlement, maybe we Fidesz people have a little bit more mayor of the settlement, and I myself may have a little more experience in the administration to know whether or not the municipalities can handle this budget. I think they've been able to make it, and they're gonna make it, and they've got a good budget, and they've got good job funding. We agree on one thing, and that is the question of paying mayors of small settlements, and we agree that this should be changed. As long as I hear that a congressman in a big city has more salary than a small town mayor, I find that unfair. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-76	Thank you very much. I will not be able to speak to Mr Sallai R. Benedek until two minutes after I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Banai Benő. With Mr Sallai R. Benedek, this round of two-minutes will be completed, and then we will return to the proper speeches. [[16.00]]
u2014-11-19-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There have been several wordings that I think need to be clarified. If you'll excuse me, I'll start with the sentences of Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] He mentioned double speech, Orwellian speech. I think the numbers should speak first. As regards the management of local authorities, HUF 1300 billion was taken over from the municipalities. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] In fact, this is the first year when local governments start operating without debt. I think that this is a very serious help for local authorities. (Mrs. Loránt Violinás intervenes. ) Madam Congresswoman, allow me to repeat the facts on the management of local authorities. Local authorities closed with a very significant deficit in the past period. Let's look at the numbers and see that in recent years this local government system has turned into a suffiti, a surplus. Obviously, this surplus also had a substantial role to play in the debt transfer and the new rules that, like the State, required a responsible management of local authorities. In addition to the rules, yes, the government has helped, not only by taking over debts, but also by creating a new financing system that has been operating since 2013. Let us look at the changes that the 2015 budget proposal before us contains in this financing system. In many cases, we see an increase in the norms, for example, in the area of children's meals. As regards employment data, I think that the data of both the Hungarian Statistical Office and the statistical body of the European Union are clear: employment is clearly expanding in Hungary, thanking God, I think that we should be happy about this, and yes, we should spend less resources on related aid, thankful God. As far as wages are concerned, once again allow me to mention strict factual data, and again not only Hungarian data, but data from the statistical body of the European Union. This shows that Hungary has implemented Europe's most important fiscal consolidation in recent years. If I'm gonna put it simply, I'm gonna say that the state has cleared up its finances. We can look at these public figures, I also mention, there were six years in the mid-2000s when the deficit in Hungary was either the largest in the 27 Member States or the second largest in Hungary. From this starting position we have achieved that the deficit is below 3 percent, not only according to the Hungarian government, according to all analysts, and we have achieved a steady decline in debt over the last three years, with three countries in Europe being able to do so. The question is, what were the tools with which we achieved these results? I have to say that, unlike many of Europe's countries, public sector wages have not been reduced by the Hungarian government against any recommendations. This in itself, I think, is a significant difference compared to the consolidation that has been applied in several countries of Europe. But not only did he not reduce it, but what I see is that the introduction of a family discount or a single-key tax system has in many cases resulted in a net increase in income for those working in the public sector. In addition, gross wages have increased in many areas. And I have to add, yes, in a responsible way, this was done by the government when the collateral was available. We see that teachers see a very significant increase in wages in several steps, the next part of which is also seen in the 2015 budget. We see that there has also been a wage increase in health care; we see that there has also been a wage substitute in the social sphere; we see that there has also been a wage bonus in armed bodies, and that the draft budget law for next year proposes a very significant, average 30 percent wage increase from July 2015. As far as the rest of the public sector is concerned, there are further plans on the table, and I can say that the government intends to pursue a responsible policy where additional revenues from economic growth and structural changes so far can be used as a means of covering wage increases. I think that, in this respect, it is impossible to go back to the era of spending without income. It wouldn't be responsible for farming. Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, replied to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comments. I would like to point out one more thing: the use of EU funds. If we look at next year's budget bill, we see that the government is also trying to make maximum use of EU funds. I would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament and Member to the European Union's resources on page 56 of the bill, which can be used by the government within the framework of asylum, the migration fund, the internal security fund and other purposes. So the issue of refugees is not only being solved by the government but also by EU funds. If the Parliament accepts it, then, of course, this can be achieved with parliamentary support. Finally, allow me to draw the attention of Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély to the fact that the number difference that she mentioned in the area of housing subsidies is real, and it is very good that she drew attention to this. Because why are the amounts of some housing subsidies falling? Not because the government wants to change the aid scheme, but because the amount of the aid is in line with the central bank base rate and the commercial bank interest rate. So, not by changing the rules, we should be glad that the basic central bank interest rate, or the commercial bank interest that debtors have to pay for loans, is much lower than the interest rate cost, and, accordingly, the State needs less support. We were talking about a process that I think all debtors are happy about. Let's look at the statistics again. Thank God it's much cheaper to get loans for housing expansion at a lower interest rate than it was 3-4-5 years ago. I think that these are all positive steps, which have been mentioned by Members or ladies representing them, and which are included in next year's budget bill. That is why I trust that the honourable Members will be able to support this proposal by listening to the answers to the questions raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-78	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek for a two-minute comment.
u2014-11-19-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, If that is the case, then I would also like to respond immediately to what Parliamentary Secretary Banai has said, because the only evidence he has given to me is that the state cannot finance its operation and that EU funds are being taken away from national developments, and that is the way in which they try to fill and clog the gaps, even though this is necessary for the proper functioning of the Hungarian administration and legislation. The sad process that you are talking about is because there is no meaningful development, because there is no meaningful job creation in the country, because you are not using EU funds for what they should be doing, regional development resources are not raising regions, but you are operating in the same way as you are doing with many other government sources. Similarly, it is always surprising to me when local government consolidation is referred to as such a significant success. On behalf of my fellow Member, it has been said here that with 20 years of experience as a city manager, people who have led settlements for 20 years cover their sins with this debt consolidation activity, and this was exactly the process where, without any consequences, they confirmed in Hungarian society that everything could be done without responsibility over the past period, and in this they gave a general exemption to everyone, while the settlements that tried to manage properly and tried to keep their opportunities in mind, taking into account their farming, were left behind against the irresponsiblely-spending, irresponsiblely-farmed settlements. So you can only judge this as a success propaganda with some superficiality. I would also like to respond with one sentence to the suggestion made by Mr István Happy about the salary of small-town mayors. We fully enjoy our support for what you have said, and I agree that it is impertinent what we see in a metropolitan district; we have already seen in the district of Pest that there are half a million representatives' salaries, where, together with Fidesz, you have imposed a great coalition on salaries. [[Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz: LMP! Ex-LMP congressman! Gergely Christmas! ? Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-80	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, a regular speaker, from the benches of Fidesz. [[16.10]]
u2014-11-19-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Before I get to the point, may I have a comment from my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, who is smooth and continuous in relation to the world of work? I don't want to say it lightly - you're wrong. It is not my place to defend Mr Czomba, and he has already responded to what my fellow Member Gur has to say. My fellow Member, Mr Gúr, is constantly flogging our Start and Public Works Programme; it is not by accident that he has bad memories of it, since in the last year of their government, more than HUF 200 billion was spent on community work, which was typical of a hundred people digging a ten-meter pit, not a hundred meters. The current community service program is not as pointless as what Ferenc Gyurcsány used to say that they rely on the shovel. Come to the Bihar region, the community and the Start work programme are exemplary, social cooperatives prosper, settlements have become self-sufficient, and they are now growing on the market, and social cooperatives are going to organise themselves. Dear House, Minister Mihály Varga described the 2015 budget in his exposé as a budget for accounting banks. In my comment, I would like to touch on the budgets of the courts and prosecutors, and this relates to Mihály Varga's comment in the title in so far as the judgments of the courts created the legal basis for this year's budget to be a budget for the accountability of banks. We believe that the common goal of the citizen and the state is to complete prosperity, security, order, justice, freedom. We believe that the rule of the people is only where the state serves its citizens, their affairs being dealt with fairly, without abuse or partiality. What's the matter with you? says the National Creed. According to Article 25 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, justice is the fundamental task of the courts. On 30 October 2014, the President of the National Court of Justice and the Curia reported to the Judicial Committee their activities in the previous year. According to the report, the National Court of Justice also carried out its work in 2013 on the basis of the strategic objectives previously set, and progress has been made in a number of areas. Their main results are: the number of cases in progress over one year has decreased and timeliness has improved. The Metropolitan Court can have particularly spectacular results, as the number of cases over two years and over five years has decreased and the number of terminations has exceeded the arrival. The National Court of Justice Office has successfully participated in several EU applications, and in this connection the targeted organisation development programme of the courts has been launched and the development of judicial IT systems has been ongoing. National programmes launched at the time, which strengthen the character of the courts' customer centre service provider, are becoming increasingly popular, both among the collaborators and among citizens. One of the most important aims of the National Court Office is to ensure that all over the country. Customer-centred courts meeting the needs of the century. The budget bill submitted significantly increased the amount that could be used to invest in the judiciary provided for in chapter management appropriations. This appropriation is intended to cover the expenditure of the Egri General Court, the Szeged General Court, the Gödöllő District Court, the Tapolca District Court, the Szarvas District Court and other small investments planned in 2015. A number of judicial investments have started in earlier years and are ongoing. This is the building of the District Court in Debrecen: it was started in 2013, the investment will be completed in 2015, with an estimated total value of HUF 3.7 billion. Allow me to add a few subjective thoughts to this investment, since, as an old-timer-biharian Member, I have tabled several amendments to the budget alone or with my fellow Members, so that the Debrecen District Court can be placed in worthy circumstances and serves the interests of both the workers and the community seeking rights, as required by the age. As a practicing lawyer, I myself have experienced the unblessed conditions that marked the District Court of Debrecen. The structure of the new court was certainly justified, which the city of Debrecen contributed by providing free supplies. The District Court in Debrecen is built right next to the Debrecen Court of Justice, and the Debrecen Court is just a few ten metres away. If we add the legal training at the University of Debrecen to this, then we can say that in Debrecen a judicial centre was established to ensure both high-quality judicial training and legal training, as well as serving the needs of the law-seeking audience at the highest possible level. The reconstruction and expansion of the Cegléd District Court building started in 2013 and we hope it will be completed in 2015. As I mentioned earlier, the National Court Office has successfully applied for EU funds, which are used to renew judicial processes, to bring institutional processes into line, to improve quality of service and efficiency through the use of IT opportunities, and to ensure further training of judges and judicial staff. The chapter of the Finance Act on the Public Prosecutor's Office shows additional support for public prosecutor's investment compared to the 2014 budget: the budget for the chapter increased by HUF 1.6 billion compared to the previous year. The recent legislative changes to the prosecutor's office have imposed considerable additional burdens, such as changes in the legislation on obtaining public benefit status, the application of the new criminal code and additional tasks in the field of legal transactions to circumvent the provisions of law restricting the acquisition or use of land, prosecution in connection with the exploration of so-called pocket contracts and enforcement of claims, both in the area of legality control and in the context of bringing an action. An operational programme containing judicial developments for the 2014-20 period is being developed. Following the adoption of the programme, the first proposals to which prosecutors' organisations may be beneficiaries may be expected to appear in January 2015. Overall, we can conclude that the courts and prosecutors form a separate chapter in the central budget of Hungary, which includes the appropriations necessary for the performance of their statutory duties. I call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the budget presented. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-82	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2014-11-19-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to react very briefly to the suggestion made by Mr Sallai R. Benedek, because I think that there may be a material error behind the Member's comment. As regards the appropriations covered by migration and immigration in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, the Government intends to use these resources relating to immigration, not instead of improvements, but also improvements. It is therefore a question of whether Hungary intends to use the resources available for immigration in the EU budget or the resources available to address the problems. My answer is that, yes, you want to use these EU funds, which is included in the budget bill before us. As far as the debts of local governments are concerned, I think that the mayors, the majority of the body of representatives, think that this was a good step for the state and the government, namely that they were freed from debt. I do not argue with the Member that there have been cases where irresponsible management has led to the indebtedness of the settlement, but I also think that the previous financing system has made a very significant contribution to this indebtedness. What did the government do? What did the Parliament do? He changed the funding rules, trying to deal with the financial problems of the municipal authorities. The public documents in front of me and before you show that you have succeeded in doing so, since the municipal sector has not lost money today, but has closed with a positive saldo in recent years, and in addition to those municipalities who were not indebted and from whom the state has not taken over the debt, so to speak, has managed in a positive way and has provided them with a separate source; this year it amounts to HUF 12.5 billion. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2014-11-19-84	Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the KDNP faction has handed over the remaining time frame to the Fidesz faction, as it will soon appear on the board. I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, from the benches of the MSZP.
u2014-11-19-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I get into my topic, I'd like to respond to a few things. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are renegade municipalities, so there will be a local government that will not start the year 2015 without credit. After all, the Fidesz majority of the municipality of Pécs decided to borrow HUF 3.5 billion overdrafts and HUF 9 billion from the European Investment Bank at the first general meeting called for the afternoon of the inaugural meeting and at the first general meeting after the inaugural meeting. So there will be a local government that does not start the year with zero loans. I don't know if that's the case with other municipalities. I think, and I'll remind you that it's worth paying attention to. My other reaction concerns the contribution of my fellow Member, István Vitányi. I would like to stress that my fellow Member Nándor Gúr and the MSZP faction are not hurting the public work programme, not public workers, but refusing to accept the vulnerable situation of public workers. He refuses to accept the wages for which they are working and refuses to accept the output of this, which preserves their poor situation. [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] I think it's better to clarify that. You always come up with good examples of community service. You just mentioned that they're building 100 meters. Allow me then to recall my conversation with a mayor of Ormanship, which was about seeing the public workers working in the water department in their village in connection with the Ancient-Drava program going to work in buckets. He asked them to pay attention to where they went with a bucket, because there is no season, there is nothing to collect, where you take it with you. Then the answer was to sit on it. So there are bad examples, obviously there are good examples. We would like to encourage the government to strengthen the meaningful part of the public work programme and to eliminate the vulnerable situation of public workers. What I wanted to do in my speech is the chapters on health in the budget. I'd like to read you a quote. The health system must be put on a new footing. People want a different health system than the government is trying to force them to do. Health care must be renewed in such a way that it does not lead to chaos as it does today, but that it works better. It must be renewed so that people are not sicker than they are today, but healthier. The state should take on more responsibility, not less; spend more money on health care and education, and not less. Don't you know how topical those words are? Orbán said these things back in 2008. Hungary spends noticeably little on health care from public sources. Compared to OECD countries, the government has been spending less and less on these items since 2010, less than Slovakia. At home, health spending per capita has changed substantially in recent years, after 2010 the real value of expenditure has decreased, some estimates suggest that the government has withdrawn at least HUF 300 billion from health care since 2010. Funding is not improving at all in real terms, while maintenance costs are constantly rising above average inflation, and health technology is also developing to an astonishing extent and there are costs. What we can see is that the waiting lists are still very long, the number of patients waiting for surgery will be 45,000, as shown by a recent response. Currently 7326 patients are waiting for hip replacement surgery, knee replacement surgery 8794, cataract surgery 18 401 patients. The President of the Residents Association said that the human resources bomb is ticking in health care. Based on the current trend, this figure may decrease to 60 per cent of the very low level of professional deficiency in 2013 in ten years; therefore, it will not decrease, but increase the departure of doctors from Hungary before the 25-29-year-old exam. The government seems to have given a scholarship to the residents in the previous term in vain, because the extra HUF 100 or HUF 200,000 of state aid received until the exam was obtained is over with the exam, and until then the income of almost HUF 300,000 falls to HUF 160,000. It is true and true that the 2015 budget provides more resources for health expenditure than this year, but this figure is still below 2013 levels, so even in 2015 the government spends less on health than in 2013. According to the president of the Hungarian Hospital Association, although the budget for next year actually spends more money on health care, there is no cover to inflate the coverage of the expenditure in remortal, to increase the minimum wage, and the re-production of hospital debt cannot be prevented in this way. He stressed that there was no cover for wage increases, while mobile wages and overtime payments were critically low and no salary increases were made for workers in economic and technical areas. I would also like to draw attention to the evolution of the revenue of the Health Insurance Fund in the current period. From this, it is clear that budget contributions are falling substantially by almost 40 percent. Thanks to the tax increases you voted on a few days ago, the product tax appears among the revenues of the Health Insurance Fund, the accident tax is also planned with higher revenue, and the social contribution tax also gives the health fund a higher percentage, so this revenue is also increased while? Like I said? other budget contributions will decrease on the revenue side. We believe, the Hungarian Socialist Party, that there is a need to provide substantial more resources for health care, and, as the Chairman of the Hospital Association said, if hospitals receive only HUF 60 forints of state funding for 100, then we must not refer to inefficiency, but to the expansion of state resources. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-19-86	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Farkas, from the benches of Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-87	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, a brief reaction to the example of the Orman bucket. I think that every city manager is responsible for how the community work programme or the Start work programme continues in a settlement. I, who, for nearly forty years, has lived as the head of a company, cannot imagine that if I had met such a situation in life, I would have gone without saying a word to him, and I would not speak to him or arrange for such a situation not to happen. I believe that this is also a dog's duty for local government leaders, and such examples make that established system worse, and they question the many good examples that I personally have encountered in my territory and in our territory. [[Miklós Soltész applauded: That's right. ? Miklós Soltész to Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Social mentality is what you said.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to take the floor for this, but I would like to draw attention to some of the questions raised by the Ministry of Agriculture concerning agriculture. As the 2015 budget for agriculture, as in previous years, I could say that it is much more advantageous than it was before, overall, there will be more funding from the new budget in both the agricultural and rural development sectors than in previous years. Congressman Font Sándor and I had a conversation this afternoon, and we also remembered that we have been MPs since 1998; I remember? and did I say that in my speech to the Commission? that, in the period 2001-2002, we had very much hoped and thought it was some utopian sum of HUF 400 billion, that once that much money came to agriculture, because we were only at 260 billion. [[16.30]] And now with great pleasure, I think, to the satisfaction of all of us and to the satisfaction of the people and workers in this sector, this budget of more than 600 billion is an amount for 2015 that can solve countless problems and contribute to the sector's performance, agricultural exports and national income. Prime Minister also said yesterday that agriculture must be one of the leading sectors of the Hungarian economy in the long term. I believe that with these amounts, with these grants and support policy, we will achieve this goal. I would just like to highlight a few details. Compared to previous years, budgetary coverage for secondary vocational education institutions in agriculture and for various agricultural research institutions is growing convincingly. I also note this because the research institutes have experienced a difficult time, and now a reassuring solution has finally been found, which will mean long-term security and predictability for these research institutions, sectors and subsectors, that agricultural research will work within the Ministry, and not only research, but also secondary vocational education. A stable part of the budget is the rightly successful and purely domestic-funded farm development programme. We know that we have been able to develop and secure this with modest amounts for several years, but these sums have always been put to the best purpose and to the best places for the satisfaction of the people living in the countryside and on the farm. There would be a much greater need for this development programme, for this amount, but I believe that this amount is once again an opportunity for those in need. Just a few thoughts. For example, support for protection against ragweed is an important aspect. We have a very old topic to support the measurement of undivided common-owned land. There is much greater demand in this, and much more money would be needed, but of course we know the burden of the budget. I believe that in the coming years, which not only means 2015, there will be a large amount of money translated into this, and that anomalies that exist in respect of undivided common land may be resolved in a foreseeable time. Is it a good fact that I would like to highlight two programmes that are very important: healthy lifestyles and healthy diets for children, young people, and later on in terms of food consumption? Among other things? It's like drinking milk. The programme and the School Fruit Scheme, which will receive some HUF 4 billion in support in 2015. This amount is around 1 billion higher than the 2014 annual allocation. Current expenditure and income support are rising from 40 to 50 billion in previous years to almost double to nearly 80 billion forints. The government's plans for economic development and job creation are accompanied by revenue from the budget, and budget planning has been very careful to keep the deficit in place, and I would briefly mention two issues that I believe should be given important attention. When we talk about job creation, the issue of two major sectors is of particular importance. One of them is the gardening sector, which as a gardening strategy is a new opportunity, a new opportunity for gardeners, gardeners, which had a long desire and hope for gardeners, Hungarian gardeners, to be part of a programme that can create appropriate technological development, appropriate conditions and, last but not least, a serious workforce. Thus, we need to think and plan for gardening as an extremely important sector in the field of rural employment. This is a very long and very complicated subject, and I do not want to hold up my honourable fellow Members, but I believe that we will have to talk about this in a more limited manner later on, and we need to strengthen this programme. The other is related to the support of livestock farming. Rural development resources and FM resources are practically separate, but they serve a purpose whether you like it or not. This is all to contribute to the conditions of people, farmers and farmers living in rural areas and to the basic conditions and conditions for safe long-term farming. In the field of livestock farming, we know that even the increase in pig numbers is very important and that this programme has started. Perhaps now, perhaps, I feel that the other major heavy industry for agriculture in livestock farming is cattle farming, which partly concerns the milk programme, and partly concerns the beef programme. It is very important that we have, or have, varieties, technologies, genetic resources that can provide funds against the milk quota that will cease to exist next year that no increase in production will cause us any trade problems that are expected and counted in several places in the European Union. I note here that we have not been able to take advantage of the effect of the milk quota, which is why it is important that we protect these products of Hungarian producers, and with the greatest possible propaganda, we are able to convince consumers to consume Hungarian products, Hungarian food and high quality Hungarian products. I would like to refer to two short questions. In respect of VAT reductions, half-carcase decisions on pigmeat were successfully introduced in the last year. As a result, and in the possession of these results, we will be thinking about it again this year, i.e. in 2015, and even introducing the introduction of a 5-percent VAT to stimulate and improve the cattle and sheep sector. I would just like to note here that the Hungarian consumer? And we're gonna have to do some serious marketing work? Not even beef? And now I'm saying it like this? It does not consume sheep meat or sheep meat or goat meat to the extent that it does not have a tradition such as the consumption of pig meat and poultry meat, so we must place much more emphasis on this, just when various embargoed economic policy and market policy measures hit Hungarian producers and Hungarian farmers. So we must pay much more attention to this if we can already introduce it, which is a huge opportunity to clean up and whiten the economy and trade, so that we must pay much more attention and attention to the consumption of these meats. Another similar issue is the possibility of exempting business tax for purchasing and selling cooperatives; the proposal and the tax law provide that these cooperatives will practically not pay business tax. This is a great relief for farmers, farmers' organisations within these organisations, and, of course, for all those operating within these cooperatives. I believe that with these two examples and some thought, I have been able to draw attention to the fact that in the agricultural sector, in rural development, our options are inexhaustible, and I therefore believe it is important that with these development policy principles, as well as those specific financial processes, planning, spending and revenue, it is possible for this sector to have the ability to maintain a job while at the same time ensuring the conditions of a new market producing a safe product. And I trust that the budget will be adopted within this, not only for agriculture, but for the entire Hungarian budget for 2015. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-19-88	I now give the floor to the representative of Jobbik, Zoltán Magyar. Here.
u2014-11-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! This is the fifth time I have been able to take part in a budget debate. I have looked back at some pro-government contributions from the last few years; it really doesn't matter what year it is, because the same slogans have been spoken, that the following year is the year of rejection, the year of development, the year of eruption, and it would still be possible to list the small labels with which you are filling the budget year after year. [[16.40]] Well, it's no different this year. But if we add all this progress and outburst and kick-off, then we're basically in some kind of gigantic time and space travel. Reality, on the other hand, pulls us back. Let's look at agriculture. Is this a sector where you're lucky? Unlike others? , but the number of jobs is constantly decreasing. It was a promise, every year there was a promise that this trend would be changed, reversed, and the Hungarian agriculture would finally move back into a productive sector. In the case of rural conservation, almost all measurements show that it is constantly decreasing and falling. This started during the socialist governments, but you have been unable to stop this in the fifth year. In the system set up by themselves, in the national rural strategy, which has been expressed as a constitution for the countryside, they have laid down plans, ideas that have not yet been implemented, while this strategy should run by 2020. It is no coincidence that they have not dared bring him here, in front of the House, to this day anyway. As far as rural development funds are concerned, they are talking about a thousand billion forints in the next EU cycle, which sounds very good and could otherwise be spent on very useful, very good purposes, and a great deal of rural jobs could be created from this, but there is a fear that if they follow the logic so far, there will not be much of this. In recent days, for example, we have seen how Lőrinc Mészáros became another wonder property from several hundred million forints and how they have been able to further strengthen and expand their own narrow little oligarchic circle. The Prime Minister and, of course, the principal of the largest bank went to hand over this colony. While dividing the number of jobs created by these hundreds of millions of forints received by the given kft., it is clear that if all rural development resources are spent on such poor utilisation in the next seven-year cycle, then not only will the number of rural jobs increase, but will decrease further. I am pleased that there is also a Secretary of State and István Nagy State Secretary, because I would like to raise two specific issues very quickly which may be more closely linked to you. I would like to start with Mrs State Secretary; in the previous term, we argued several times, and this was not even a debate, because we seemed to agree, but the question of Lake Fertő was not realized in practice. Just in the previous moments, I received the answer to my recent written question on the subject. The reason why I am reiterating this issue in the budget debate is because I believe that the Lake Fertő, which is part of the World Heritage, and its misrepresentation, is a horror in this country, a terror of a close entrepreneur in SZDSZ, which we cannot get away with without budgetary support. I would therefore like to draw attention to this amendment. And I encourage the Secretary of State to be able to comply with this earlier, when she promised in the previous term that she would take this matter to her heart and try to get it back, and perhaps she can support this proposal. And I would like to point out to Mr. Secretary of State István Nagy the matter of inter-island water supply. We are talking about the signing of nearly 100,000 people here, and a popular initiative has been launched with the help of the Győr-Moson-Sopron County newspaper, which has made it quite clear that the people living in the Isle, but we can also buy the wider environment here, are completely fed up with the situation in which the great politics has left them for two decades now. I am thinking that the drought of the Szigetköz has not only caused a serious natural disaster, but it has a very negative impact on tourism, on the quality of life at all, on agriculture and on countless other areas. At that time, Mr Secretary of State expressed his support for inter-island water supply to his former Secretary of State, Mr Illés. I thanked you at the time, and I completely agreed with your position. I urge you, now that you are in a decision-making position, and now that the former Ministry of Rural Development is an obstacle to the water supply of the Szigetköz, it seems to have decreased, and perhaps the logical attitude of the Ministry of Interior seems to be stronger, please take this case and support the issue of inter-island water supply. This is a case that has been promised many times, and I refer to people, just as I refer to Szigetköz, where you have been elected in a very large proportion. I think it would be a very nasty disappointment if they could not resolve this issue. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of this in the next year's budget, so I strongly urge you to take action on this matter. We talked about the ragweed case here first. I would also be pleased if the money that taxpayers are offering with their own 1% offer to exterminate ragweed would be spent on it rather than buying SUVs and not paying severance payments. That would be a big step forward. So, I urge you, too, that your earlier mistakes, so that I don't use a harsher word, don't commit them, and we'll be deeper in the matter of grass. I also do not see in the budget for the following year a very old wish and promise that we can increase the amount of irrigable areas, as this is a sad area in Hungary. Moreover, we all know that increasing the rate of irrigation of agricultural land would have a serious impact on agricultural profitability, crop safety and other implications. Unfortunately, as I said, despite the many promises that have been made, I do not see any progress in this regard. The issue of undivided common land has also been raised, and every year there is a serious debate here, within the walls of the House, about this problem. I would like to underline once again, as I have said before, this problem is caused by politics, but it is the everyday average Hungarian people, those who are not responsible for being in such a legal nonsense situation, they have access to their own property virtually under restrictions, and many, many other problems in everyday life. With the funds that you are assigning year after year to this problem, to eliminate it, it will lead to the fact that if we continue at this rate, this issue will not be resolved by 2050. That's what I've had time for, and I'm waiting for answers. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-90	I now give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2014-11-19-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar raised serious questions and brought them to the table of the House. Allow me to answer that in a few words. Will employment continue to decline in the countryside? You said it yourself. I think you, too, who lives in the countryside, saw the legacy of this government when you started your activities. I think you can see as a specialist the processes, the efforts that the government is making to stop the decline and start the development that will help keep the rural workforce. You can also see in the latest programme what the government is planning to do to keep employment in rural areas. I dare say to you, the renewal of Hungary, the pledge of renewal is precisely the key to the development of rural Hungary, so that we can keep people where they were born, where we need their work to develop. You say you have criticism of the use of rural development money. And what I can tell you is that if you keep track of our activities, you can see that we are handing over more investments in agriculture every week, we are handing over more cattle farms and pig farms per week, which really shows that the development has started, the development has started, and as a result exactly what happens is that more and more workers, more and more working hands can be applied here in the countryside. I believe that the government has given a very eloquent witness to the fact that if a problem arises, the solution of which raises questions, although I would like to point out that the agricultural portfolio has not committed any lawlessness, it has done everything exactly according to the rules and has used this money, it is right, but the money has not come to what those contributors have given it. It was therefore decided to return this amount to civil society organisations. At the same time, I would also like to say that we have used ten times more money to protect against ragweed, and if you look at the results, you can see how much more results have been achieved in the last year, as the concentration of pollen in the air has already decreased and the number of allergics is also decreasing. [[16.50]] The size of irrigable areas: this is once again a problem that is banging open gates, as the Ministry of Interior's proposal is slowly coming before the House, in which we will be able to regulate irrigation and various water use issues. Once again, this will help farmers to be able to do so free of charge, to relieve the administrative burden and the pressure caused by different permits from the use of irrigation water, so that farmers can be stimulated as widely as possible, as intensively as possible, or to move it towards organic farming as possible. It's a question of undivided common land. I think I can give you another good example. In recent years, the government in Vas County has begun to attempt to unravel the undivided joint resolution of the survey. Based on the experience of this, the government has also appointed an eastern county, and we would like to continue there, and we would very much like to put the lessons learned into practice into practice and introduce the undivided common concept of Hungarian legislation more and more widely. I really hope that we can say this by the end of the cycle. I left the Szigetköz case for the last time because it's my concern as an island resident. I have to tell you, at least the two of us can safely say that this cannot be a political matter. If there is a professional issue, then it is the issue of island water and water supply. It must be brought to a professional level, and also because the various political forces in the Isle do not want to argue about it, but want a solution. And what I need to see now is that all the conditions are given for us to slowly get out of the pit where the water issue of the Szigetköz and the water supply have come, and all the political strife that has brought the Szigetköz to where it is now can finally be stopped, and a normal solution can finally be found to make a final solution for water supply in the Island. We currently have applications submitted by the European Union in the KEOP programme, in the Ministry of the Interior at the Water Directorate, and I very much hope that you will also have the opportunities and solutions to resolve the issue of Szigetköz in a satisfactory manner in the coming period. Thank you for your questions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-92	Now we have two-minute comments. In doing so, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-11-19-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to be very quick. A lot of exciting topics have come up. Great Secretary of State said that the government is doing everything in its undivided common cause. I'm counting here, if in five years we've managed to do a county in some form, then maybe a hundred years will be enough to fix this issue. You might need a little more dynamic than that, but that would require resources in the budget. Looking through the budget law, I found 46 million forints in terms of ragweed, but as far as I know, more than 1 billion were offered from sja. The proportion of these two numbers is not entirely equal, because we give 46 million to where we stole 1 billion. It's definitely a fun contrast. With Mr Banai State Secretary, we have left the discussion on how specific the use of EU funds serves development goals. Well, please, you have to go into a ministry, you have to look at how many EU applications there are on the lobby walls, and you can see that they are already trying to finance their basic operations from development sources that should reach the Hungarian people, which should help us catch up with regions, and because of the incredible lag that we are suffering from in relation to Europe? Are our regions around 250 per capita GDP? We're in this situation. For me, as an LMP representative, it's certainly fun to have an exchange of views on whose public work programme is worse than that of the Gyurcsány government or yours. It is precisely that this is the horror that Hungary and Hungarian society are experiencing, that they are building a community-based society that is almost one of the most important bases of rural employment. This is what needs to be separated, which is why we need to move in a completely different direction. And let me mention one more number in my tight time frame: Minister of State Banai said that there will be a surplus of 12.5 billion for municipalities that are not indebted. May I remind you that 1,300 billion have been spent by those who are indebted, so less than 1 percent of those who have managed fairly. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-94	My fellow Members, I am now giving the floor to Mr István Happy for two minutes.
u2014-11-19-95	Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to tell Mr Róbert Sallai that I see that the LMP continues exactly where he began his work here four years ago. Then the small town mayors were named small kings, and now Mr. Sallai has said that they have managed irresponsiblely and wasted the money, not only the small settlements, but also the big ones. Excuse me, Congressman, but in the cities and villages, the money that the municipalities took on as a loan has been used for two important things. Some have spent some of the money to maintain the schools and other institutions from which the Balliberal Government took the funding. This was important because it wouldn't have been good to shut down more schools than Hiller had shut down anyway. On the other hand, improvements have been made, and on those sidewalks, the people are on the road today, and the children are going to the institutions they have renovated with this money. What I can tell you is that if this hurts you, that's a big problem. That there were some municipalities out of the hundreds that might have managed irresponsiblely, no one contested it. But I'm asking you not to generalize. As with community service, I would like to ask you to stop generalising. Under the Start Work Programme? I can only give you the example of my own village? 20 out of the 90 unemployed have been placed in the public sector this year. He hasn't been unemployed in my village for five months. What's wrong with you working? And what's wrong with producing tomatoes, peppers, or getting a hammock? I think it's a good thing, and it's a little over 22,000 forints. Not much, not enough, but a little more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-96	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm warning you that the TV broadcast time is over, and 17 hours is about to arrive. The time frame of MSZP and LMP will be added to the afternoon period. Now it's up to Congressman Ferenc Papcsák. I'm not gonna interrupt you at the time frame, so at 5 o'clock, you're gonna be able to finish your speech, and then we're gonna subtract the next minutes from the afternoon time frame outside of the TV broadcast.
u2014-11-19-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with my fellow Member, István Happy. I think that for those who undertake community service, it is an extremely important thing both morally and humanly. It is much better to work, to go to a job in the morning as an employee than to pick up benefits and spend 20,000 forints on our lives. Let me give you an example: my hometown is Demecser, where we employ about 500 people in the community service program. I think this is the first step in getting them out of their disadvantage and back into the world of work. And this is obviously the budget that will give them the first chance to work in a more developed system that is more normal or orderly. Would I like to tell my colleague Zoltán Magyar? Even though he's not in the room? that this budget is a period of peaceful, calm work and balanced governance. It is a realistic, precisely planned central budget, the most important question of which is always how much money remains in the population, in the people. In recent years, the income of the broad population has increased with the state managing responsibly, the level of public debt has decreased, financial discipline has increased. This is true of local governments and municipal systems, since a local government can no longer just increase its debt, in order to obtain a loan, the State's contribution is required. What I would like to talk about is the reduction of bureaucracy primarily in terms of central government. I consider it welcome and important that the government considers it necessary to reduce bureaucracy, which is in the same interest of the public and economic operators. I think that cutting red tape is essential to further improve the country's economic competitiveness. [[17.00]] We will also examine how more efficient, faster, simpler public administration, public administration, and what additional services the state will be able to reduce or ease the burden of everyday life. The process of cutting red tape will be proposed by the State Reform Commission requested by the Government. From January 2015, the administrative deadline will be reduced from the current average 21 days to 15 days, which will be extended by up to 15 days. By autumn 2015, there will be several government windows, which will not only provide administrative services, but will also play a role in the new financial system, as well as in the new national utility system. From 2016 to 2018, there will be a reduction in public debt, a continuous discharge and a reduction of certain court fees as part of the judicial system. From 1 July 2016, the public service career model will be launched, which applies to civil servants and government officials. So the government's goal is that? And our parliamentary faction welcomes this? To provide broadband internet for all Hungarian households by 2018, and to make electronic administration more accessible to businesses. The second question I would like to discuss with you concerns the chapter of the Ministry of Justice. It is very important to define and list goals. In principle, I agree with two important objectives of the Ministry: the protection of Hungarian constitutional identity and the strengthening of acceptance on the international stage. I consider this to be extremely important, and also to increase trust in justice and public confidence. Both questions are very important. Allow me to draw attention to our motion for two more amendments. One of them, according to the Fundamental Rights Catalogue, deserves special attention, the so-called third generation fundamental rights, such as the right to a healthy environment. In this respect, the establishment of the so-called greenombudsman institution in Hungary is a model. In this respect, it is therefore important to promote both the institution and its values in Hungary and internationally. In this respect, we would like to increase the budget of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The other area is the National Remembrance Committee, which plays a prominent and important role. In this respect, we have set out a more precise understanding of the details of the Soviet takeover in 1944-45 with our amendment as an important priority, and we would consider it very important that the budget would also be slightly altered in this respect. Allow me to draw your attention to two more areas. As mayor of Zugló, we paid particular attention to the preservation of the nation's cultural heritage, and I never thought that as regent mayors, they would attack as politicians with the fact that Zugló will have two of the biggest investments of the following years: on the one hand, the renewal of the City Park and, on the other hand, the construction of the Puskás Stadium and the Sports Centre, we can say, the Olympic Sports Centre. I consider it important and welcome that this has already been incorporated into our budget, and I think it is important that this work should also start. However, there are also some points to be made about the municipalities. Here, community service has already been mentioned. Even a metropolitan district, a local government in Zugló, considered it important to do community work, although it is a little more disadvantaged in terms of calls for proposals, let us say, against settlements in the less favoured region, but we were able to do so from our own resources. But we must not hide it, either, because this country had an eight-year government when both the population, citizens, municipalities and the state were indebted. Do I find that fact particularly gratifying? and this is reflected in Hungary's budget? That any additional burden would not be a significant burden on the settlement of the debt taken over by the municipalities, which would even tip the Hungarian budget. But Zuglo was specifically assisted and supported when I handed over the mayor's office, more than two billion more in the register. When I took over, there was $11.6 billion minus in the budget. Of course, parentheses open, this unprecedented amount of money has led the current city administration to set the highest prize. I think that the municipalities should be responsible for farming. I ask the government to impose a very strong financial rigour on the management of the municipalities. Once again, local authorities should not be in the same situation as they were in 2010. Allow me to mention another very short question: this is the area of business development. It can be said that the size of EU funds is a significant source for Hungarian citizens, Hungarian businesses. It is also welcome in the budget that the domestic part of the co-financing of resources is reflected. I think it is important that all this funding system, which is visible here in the budget, has a role to play both in micro-crediting, mid-crediting, employment expansion and R &amp; D. Do I continue to encourage the government to develop specific credit and support products to think about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, incubation programmes and programmes? And these should take advantage? , which are linked to employment expansion. I hope that Parliament will mature this budget after a long debate and be acceptable to all of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-98	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna need a moment of your time, a little technical change in class. [[The display displays time frames outside the broadcast time. ? For signal:]] I'm asking you to move KDNP's time frame to Fidesz. [[It's happening.]] That's what happened. Then we will continue with the speeches. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the opportunity to speak. Here.
u2014-11-19-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, And with great respect, I would like to draw the attention of Ferenc Papcsák to the fact that the public debt has not decreased, but that the public debt has increased. It's not numerology, it's facts. I would like to point out once again that I have done this several times here, in Parliament's walls, that not only public debt is increasing, but Fidesz's debt is increasing to the Hungarian people every day when they are lying to them. What are they doing? [[Dr. Ferenc Papcsák: It doesn't matter what we compare the debt to!]] I am very pleased that in the village of Mr Happy, as he said, there is therefore full employment in this regard. The huge problem is that they trick with numbers, they use community service to improve statistics, they put these people within limits, they don't stand a chance of breaking out of these barriers. They don't work for eight hours, so they don't even get that 47,000 forint. These are facts. [[Dr. István Nagy: Getting help is a bigger opportunity, isn't it?]] And where is that million jobs anyway? Because these people should be an option, a bridging period, a shorter period, and then they should be able to get settled. [[Dr. Ferenc Papcsák: That's what we're working on!]] in factories built by improvements in certain regions. These solutions should be applied, not almost for life, to determine what opportunities someone has. So these people can't go to college, they won't be able to get a job elsewhere. So they shouldn't be proud of that? And that's all they can do. I would like to talk about the chapter on the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. What is clear is that at institutional level, in terms of personal composition, in terms of structural changes that are taking place in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they are clearly trying to implement the government's false foreign policy, which is chasing Viktor Orbán's illusions, at institutional level. [[17.10]] And what exactly are we thinking? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' tasks and responsibilities are significantly expanded by external economic tasks, investment promotion tasks, twin institutional tasks, and by carrying out tasks related to the European grouping of territorial cooperation, also known as the European territorial association. We were talking about European territorial associations recently, we were talking about this under a law when we were going to make changes to the European Union, but the Hungarian government decided to introduce a completely new law, so that it could make an additional one of its own. This is the transfer of authority from the Metropolitan Tribunal to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. So a Ministry of Justice will exercise judicial oversight and control as authority, which, by the way, has not said a word since 6 October about what information you have about the ban scandal, what you will do to ask at least in your own ministry about who this may affect, what information you can know, initiate with the relevant bodies, Kehi has the potential for it, the government would have every opportunity to investigate these suspicions and these matters. This minister has done nothing. Such a ministry is otherwise assigned authority. It is clear that 107 people have been dismissed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and now the authorised 661 staff in 2014 will be increased to 850. So the question arises as to why this downsizing was necessary. And I'd like to ask you here if it was necessary for a few more ten people from Péter Szijjártó's run team to be able to sit here. [[Intercom from Fidesz: A 100-person run team?]] I think that this would otherwise have a very negative impact on the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So people who have experience, have knowledge, leave the State Department, by the way. If people like you get in here like we've seen in the last few days or weeks, I think we're gonna be in a lot of trouble. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is already blind, the foreign minister is blind, he does not see the environment around us, he does not see that the Orbán government has caused Hungary to be isolated in the international space by its own mistakes. [[Márius Révész: You have done nothing for this, have you not?]] Regarding the administration of foreign representations: funding increases by HUF 2.2 billion. It was here that the government closed its very valuable foreign representations, whether I am thinking of Tallinn or the embassy in Cyprus, which, by the way, we would consider important from a security policy point of view, that they work. These embassies are closed, and there are plans to open embassies around the world in the spirit of Eastern opening. Now, we've heard a lot of these things here, but only two are named Kuala Lumpur and the Erbil Consulate General. The rest, by the way, you don't know anything about it yet. The appropriations for this title include the additional tasks resulting from the amendment of the Hungarian Citizenship Act, the necessary support framework for foreign representations to ensure the speeding up of simplified localisation and the establishment of Hungarian citizenship. In addition, the working conditions of the posted persons concerned and the costs of the deployment of consular days in order to ensure the widest availability of the missions involved in simplified naturalisation and re-introduction procedures and, moreover, expenditure on technical improvements and information have been provided. That's okay, by the way. The only question is that these tasks were carried out by the wallet after the 2010 amendment of the Citizenship Act, which still does not explain why this appropriation is increasing. I would like to point out that there is also one billion HUF separately as a surplus to cover general operating expenses. There is nothing more concrete about this. We see that the operation of the Istanbul Hungarian Institute is extremely important to the government. The problem is that he is doing this to the detriment of all other institutions. We can find a very interesting data at the National Investment Agency, as we can see a HUF 300 million reduction compared to 2014, which is interesting only because the tasks of this project are investment-enhancing events, forums, the purpose of which is to provide professional assistance to foreign companies wishing to invest in our country, to implement forums, roadshows, company visits, and so on. But compared to this, the fact that they provide less framework for this is just a confession that it is not certain that this huge strategy for the government on the very high speeded up and magnified external economics will otherwise work and will deliver the expected results, as it can be seen that everything is based on this now, even though these economic aspects and the external economic strategy have worked for previous governments. It was also extremely important there, but here, in some incredible way, the healthy ratio was upset, and now everything is subject only to this, only to economic considerations. Orbán also said that value-based policy now has no meaning or value in his view, which is a very, very wrong view in our opinion. In support of the Centre for Democracy Public Foundation, Tom Lantos Institute, it is an interesting fact that in 2014 it was intended for 105 million forints, and now it is only 50 million forints that go to support the processing, publication and transfer of the experiences gained during the democratic transformation of Hungary. So the fact that this amount is now being reduced by half, I think it may be realistic from one point of view that, by the way, democracy in Hungary has also been reduced by at least half. But I think that, by the way, the solution would be that, after the processing and publication of these experiences, perhaps the government sometimes reads into them, how this should work, because I know that a lot of you have experienced this transformation, so you may have personal experiences in this regard. International development cooperation was supported by HUF 150 million, which is now only HUF 13.7 million. The question here would be that the objectives which have been undertaken, such as promoting the sustainable development, balanced economic growth, poverty reduction, democratic establishment and consolidation of developing countries, based on respect for fundamental human rights, should be promoted and supported by this fund. Well, the question is that this support planned for next year is not even one tenth of the previous year, so how would you like to achieve it, as these are international commitments, by the way. I wanted to highlight these main points from the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and, overall, the situation of Hungarian foreign policy is not improving next year either. It seems very much that both Viktor Orbán and László Kövér and Péter Szijjártó's statements do not change the concept, the perception and the illusion that they have outlined otherwise, the illusion that Hungary is considered to be a great power does not change. And, by the way, it's a very flawed policy to blame everyone for attacking the country from abroad. They don't attack the country, they don't attack the Hungarian people? the Orbán government is criticized and the government's wrong policy is criticised. And obviously, we also saw at the protest a few days ago that this is happening in Hungary, that people do see the direction in which things are going. [[Márius Révész: There have been three choices so far!]] Oh, dear, thank you for saying the three choices. If we count a little, then on the one hand, they know that the two-thirds of them are not two-thirds at any level. So when there's personalized legislation, when there's a law tailored to an orbian power policy, is that how they write the Fundamental Law, so they write an election law? I can show you the rest, can't I, Congressman? Then you can't say it's real support, you know that very well. [[17.20]] Orbán's great regret is that it has stopped within the borders and has not been able to extend two thirds beyond the borders. Overall, by not clarifying the circumstances of the banning scandal, Vida Ildikó has not been cleared... Well, seriously, how can Ildikó Vida investigate himself? ! Indeed, those who have spoken about how tax revenues will flow in this way, how trust will be restored, are right. That doesn't work in a rule of law, by the way, for someone to investigate for themselves what suspicious circumstances there are. I would add that it would obviously be a legitimate expectation from now on that everyone should be able to check their own tax returns. So it seems that Hungarian foreign policy remains a slave to Viktor Orbán's illusions. I find it unparalleled that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not refused, in a word or in a single statement, that, by the way, a government-close, pseudo-civil organization has specifically threatened the U.S. attorney. So a diplomat from our country was threatened. I think the first thing I would have done was that, according to the Vienna Treaty, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does expect respectable treatment and calls the CED's attention to complete it immediately. By the way, I saw an interview by Mr. Fricz, and I saw him mention several quotes from Jesus. Forgot one thing: we know one that doesn't steal. I think that's what we should be paying attention to. We should make sure that the government clears itself, because it has all the tools in its hands. By not clarifying it, by not launching investigations, it will further isolate the country every day and discredit the country every single day. Otherwise, this will be at the expense of the Hungarian people, as it will remove precisely the allies, the partners, who could otherwise contribute to a faster development. Would those who could invest in Hungary and create jobs help you to create a million new jobs? They're the ones they're keeping away! Let me make it clear that none of our allies and partners consider it a problem that Hungary wants to pursue national interests, since naturally everyone wants to pursue their own national interests. It is the huge mistake, and this is what our allies see, that the Fidesz government itself lies to Hungarian national interests in its own fidesz tight group and party interests. This is the huge problem in Hungary!
u2014-11-19-100	I now give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2014-11-19-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Congresswoman! I would like to reflect very briefly on your points. First of all, the numbers you mentioned are good numbers. I'd like to give you the background behind it so you can see the logic in these numbers. Overall, at government level, what you see here is null and void, simply because there has been a significant increase in the profile of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in terms of numbers, costs and tasks. Now it is a very important and we think it is transparent planning that you see here. He had some comments about the fact that there was too much, too little. Technically, there's a logic to that. With a noble simplicity, the fact that the money has not yet been specified in many places is how it will be spent. It was a good example of what he mentioned in the publications on the operation of the Centre for Democracy Public Foundation. There are three main items here: the basic operating aid, the operation of ICDT and the Tom Lantos Institute. What has happened here in a noble simplicity is that for the time being we have received a budget plan of approximately HUF 50 million from the Tom Lantos Institute, which we support; we have not yet received the plans for the other editions. That's what we've been saving, that's what you're seeing in the general chapters. So they will be allocated, and they will not be given less. Of course, we would like to see what these funds will be spent on. Of course, foreign and economic tasks have increased and have not decreased over the past period. He mentioned the closure of two consulates and embassy. We're opening a number of new ones. This, of course, depends on strategy, topicalities and needs. Not only in the East and the South, but also in the West. In the near future, in the first quarter, for example, the Consulate General will be opened in Stuttgart and Düsseldorf. Just yesterday we had an Economic Joint Committee meeting with one of Baden-Württemberg's ministers, and there are very serious tasks and opportunities for further cooperation in the country. With regard to the National Investment Agency, where the Congresswoman reported a decrease, I am pleased to report that there was no reduction in the amount for the target tasks, because HIPA's profile was reduced because it was purified. Foreign trade exports have been supported and investment promotion has been supported so far. Now they will focus only on investment promotion, and the tasks that will help export expansion and export support will be added to Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. by continuing the training and marketing of small and medium-sized enterprises in foreign markets. One more thing I wanted to say about what is still changing in terms of tasks and contributing costs. Here is the principle that we believe has not been fully achieved in previous budgets, and we are trying to follow that we are not in favour of the organisations themselves, but are trying to allocate the appropriate costs to their task. He had a few other comments about the numbers. This is not a reduction and growth, it is a continuous reduction in staff. Indeed, we try to operate the organization as slender and as efficiently as possible. Instead of the number of 675 previously approved in Hungary, the number of people in Hungary was over a thousand, and we will reduce this number of people over the thousand to 850. So we are not talking about a reduction and growth, we are talking about a continuous reduction, and we are trying to carry out the tasks as slim as possible and as efficiently as possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-102	My fellow Members, I now give the floor to Secretary of State Sheres Sarah Hegmann.
u2014-11-19-103	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungarian Member has already left, but I would like to answer your question briefly. It took me so long to confess because I tried to find out when this item was being discussed by Parliament. There's a J/9805. The report before Parliament, which was then examined by the Government on the proposal of Mr Papcsák, is about the fulfilment of environmental and nature protection obligations laid down in the privatisation treaties. This was the examination of the obligations relating to the privatisation of the lake reed farm Fertő. The report has already been discussed at first reading by Parliament. We also said that, unfortunately, the privatisation agreement concluded in the past, like a lot of other privatisation contracts, did not include to the buyer any conservation and environmental standards or obligations or penalties for non-compliance. In this case, too, in the report, which we have actually taken on board on the proposal of the Member, we have described this in the study, together with the report stating that it has concluded a free cane extraction and sewerage contract, which must be examined. [[17 .30]] That is why I promise that, when Parliament has included in its negotiating agenda the conclusion of this report, we will also have the report from Éduközig to the extent that there is an opportunity for enforcement in relation to this lake reed economy in Fertő, despite the fact that I have said that there is no way to enforce its obligations under the privatisation contract. At present, I understand that we are awaiting the inclusion of this in this autumn's parliamentary phase in J/9805. Report No 1. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-104	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás László, representative of Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I see from this debate that everyone is doing their job, the opposition shares its own beliefs, fears with us, and talks about things that are not at all on the subject; the pro-government representatives and members of the government are trying to confront the parties to the debate with the facts. I, as a city politician, share with you facts that have already been mentioned in part, but it is worth highlighting again and again. The family home creation discount will start in 2015 and from 1 July to 1 million HUF 170 thousand will be available, which will not only buy or build a new apartment, but also? as a new element? can also be used for the purchase of used apartments and even for the expansion of existing apartments. I think that this family home-building discount could lead to a very significant housing mobilization and housing construction. The 2015 budget is the budget for bank accountability. I think that, thanks to bank accountability in 2015, the Hungarian families will have about a thousand billion forints to pay back, while the repayments may decrease by up to 25-30 percent, which has a huge economic recovery effect. This economic recovery effect will, of course, come down in the retail trade and will come down in delayed family purchases, the economic recovery effect of which is not negligible at all. The second is a very important thing, which has already been mentioned, and I believe that this cannot be sufficiently underlined, namely that thanks to debt consolidation, 2015 represents a new era in the life of municipalities. This is the first year in which local authorities can start working by focusing on opportunities rather than burdens. The settlements are starting a clean slate, and I think it's a very important thing. After the change of regime, this is the first year in which the start of a clean slate really opens up a lot of perspectives for municipalities, where more money can now be made for job creation, economic development, health, investment, social programmes and projects that are important for local communities. Thanks to the government debt arrangement, more than 2 thousand settlements were freed from a burden of HUF 1300 billion. This is an extremely important thing that allows municipalities to concentrate on development rather than previous operating loans. There have been criticisms of the civil sphere. I think this budget is also a very significant source of confidence for the civil sector, because, instead of HUF 3.4 billion so far, funding for the National Cooperation Fund could increase by HUF 5.4 billion, i.e. by more than 50 percent, thus increasing the amount of funding that can be used for the operation of civil self-organizations and professional activity. There has been a lot of talk about EU funds, and I am trying to shed light on the municipal dimension of this. With the 2014-20 development cycle, new timing begins again, Hungarian business opportunities are multiplied in Hungarian development policy. A total of more than 34 billion euros of funding will come to the country, with the necessary domestic co-financing, it will mean a HUF 12 thousand billion development. An extremely important element? I think it's a snap answer for all those who want to bury small and medium-sized enterprises? We believe that the government's ambition to spend at least 60 percent of development investment aid on economic development and job creation will be of great importance in this regard, because in creating jobs, the formation of sites, the preparation of regulatory plans, the purchase of real estate, the contribution of real estate, participation in economic enterprises will be of great importance, and I believe that, in the next cycle, from 2015 onwards, local authorities will have a top priority to participate in job creation. In health care, the idea that strengthening the general medical system is a priority for both the government and the budget and, accordingly, an increase in the benefits of GPs can finally be expected to strengthen a level where society, the sick, and healthy people are the most directly and widely confronted with the healthcare system. The expansion of this, the allocation of budgetary resources to this, I believe that it will have a very positive impact on the health care system. If it is to be summarised as to what this 2015 budget means, I think that this is a type of budget that creates opportunities from the economic side. This is a move towards an economic and social target system that provides opportunities for families, entrepreneurs and municipalities as well as jobs and stability for the country. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-106	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2014-11-19-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to say briefly first of all about the development of Hungarian support policy and the reflection of these principles in the budget. Is it important to see government representatives talking about how much EU money? Did I say that in the speaker's speech? This means that we are getting a lot of money because we are the most lagging behind in the European Union, my fellow Members, so Hungary is getting a lot of money in proportion to its lag; the richest states that stand best and they are paying in the European budget because they do not require the money, but give us the amount we receive. Well, of course, Hungary is getting this much money for a reason. What have we lost? It is perfectly visible in our current policy of support: there is no Hungarian industry. This has disappeared since the change of regime, and we have practically eliminated it; and the government is now implementing a policy of support that we can roughly call the illusion of economic growth based on foreign capital, which is now being painted for us. Why are we saying that? Investments are made across the country from EU funds, some of which are Hungarian contributions, as we ourselves are contributors to the European Union, and some of them are national self-parts, which we add from the Hungarian budget, from the money of Hungarian citizens, so we finance support as European Union support, investments that are created to build infrastructure for foreign-owned large companies established here. Ladies and gentlemen. It's nothing else. This is the same as when the British colonial empire told the Indians to be happy because we are building roads, the country is developing. Of course, only those roads were designed to make it easier to transport raw materials from the colony, so that the country could be better exploited; the same is happening in Hungary at the moment. [[17.40]] For example, how interesting is the fact that the German luxury industry, such as the Audit or the Mercedes, is financed by the Hungarian taxpayers' money! Just think about it. The richest German companies come here, and what do we do? From the tax forint that Hungarian citizens pay into the budget, we support the German luxury industry, we currently grant grants to Audi, Mercedes. For example, Mercedes received a grant of HUF 40 billion for its own investment in Kecskemét, HUF 40 billion for the creation of 1500 jobs and a number of other related infrastructure developments. And that's not the end. With this, Mercedes has made a five-year employment commitment, but this problem will continue. 1,500 jobs cost HUF 40 billion for five years. GDP is growing, as it obviously spins GDP, but, as the State Audit Office pointed out in its own report, GDP growth is not followed by an increase in the number of people employed in the competitive sector, with a noble simplicity because some people, a few thousand people, can produce a huge product in these highly automated plants, and most Hungarian people have no job. For example, I currently live 25 kilometers from Kecskemét on a farm in the lowlands, near Pest County. Many of my neighbors work as public workers. In their view, Kecskemét's investment in a factory next door was no advantage. 25 kilometers is not such a huge distance, it would be easy to walk in, you could be at the Mercedes factory in 20 minutes, but there's no job. This investment didn't mean anything to this neighborhood. It is also interesting when the government formulates the idea that it would like to continue with the reduction of the rent. This is a result that the pro-government representatives today have boasted on a number of occasions. What's going on in comparison? I'm sure you can disprove me, Secretary of State, although I highly doubt that, of course. At a time when the government wants to make energy cheaper and talks about a reduction in overhead, the National Assembly recently voted to increase its energy tax on electricity, coal and natural gas when the tax laws on which the budget was founded were adopted. Just think about it. The government is raising taxes on energy, and it is clear that the tax increase will increase these products. It's also interesting to see what the budget's going to do with its money. On the one hand, there is an announcement of a reduction in the rent to the public, and service providers are obliged to include on the bill the amount by which the bill has been reduced due to the reduction in the bills, but it is no longer indicated on the bill that the taxpayers' money compensates teleheaters who suffer losses because of the reduction in their bills. Let's just think about this: 50-60 billion forints a year from taxpayers' money back to district heating companies to compensate for their losses, the loss they suffered by reducing their overhead. What's happening? Please, there's an amazing amount of squirrel blinding going on in this country. On the one hand, the smaller amount appears on the bill, and on the other hand the rent of the individual citizen has been reduced, and on the other hand, the tax burden of this citizen is, of course, increasing, and it is obliged to pay new taxes, since this declining profit or loss in district heating companies is made up of the tax forints of others. Unfortunately, that is factually true. By the way, I've asked for the money paid to district heating companies in all the cities, and I know exactly where the state compensates district heating companies. It is also an interesting thing when we talk about the justice of the tax system. This is an important concept because if the tax system is fair and can be appreciated, public burdens can be achieved, citizens' willingness to pay taxes is marked by increasing, less spending on the apparatus that collects taxes. But how fair is the tax system that has developed in Hungary? I recently condemned the Ministry of National Economy for the amendment of the law that happened on the oil market: after oil that has been brought to the surface in improved cultivation processes, there is no need to pay a penny of mining fees in Hungary. Think about it. When we told the government to help at least the poorest families, when the better proposal on the 5% VAT rate for basic foods had to be decided in Parliament, the government swept off this proposal. Interestingly, the poorest, the lowest families are not entitled to a 5% VAT rate, they are not relieved by the government, but from the other side they do not have to pay a mining fee to the oil companies. Who has more interest in the government coalition with a two-thirds mandate? Not for the common man, not for the poorest, ladies and gentlemen. The oil companies were able to tax them with a zero-percent mining fee for such production, and the poorest ones could pay 27 percent VAT, world record VAT, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're talking about right now. Unfortunately, I cannot see this as a national policy, as the government calls it. It is also a very important difference between us and the government as to what kind of personal income tax system we would introduce. The government introduced a single-key personal income tax system, which, according to its own economic research background institution, shows that 90 percent of people are either neutral or cause a tax burden increase, there are 10 percent employees who receive HUF 522 billion from the single-key tax system in the form of tax reliefs, while 80 percent of workers have had a tax burden increase. What was the better proposal here? We said that we should see where the Hungarian economy is strong and where the economy is weak. What we see is that Hungarian economic growth, the tangible growth of the public good, the improvement of living standards can be achieved by boosting production sectors, by boosting industry, by boosting agriculture and by boosting tourism that brings foreign income to Hungary. Therefore Jobbik has proposed a tax system that we call a tax system that supports production, because we would focus tax incentives on industry, agriculture and tourism in order to strengthen the extremely weak structural foundations of the Hungarian economy. However, the government took a different path, the government granted tax relief to the richest, this tax system, which distorted Hungarian economic relations in such an amazing way, and pushed hundreds of thousands of families into existential poverty? is the government currently calling it a proportionate tax system? Once again, one that can't be agreed either on the basis of justice or on the basis of common sense, on the basis of professionalism. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-108	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Congressman József Kovács.
u2014-11-19-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the 2015 budget, I would like to interpret and evaluate health issues in a little more detail than has been said so far. With the exception of one comment today, all comments mentioned that in 2015 the health sector will have more money than in 2014. The main principles on which these resources and additional resources should be provided are wage increases, debt settlement and health improvements. It has been said many times that there is an additional HUF 10 billion available for the development of general medical care, but it has not yet been said today that there is an amount of HUF 5 billion available to accommodate excess capacity in 2015. In terms of basic care, there is a very important issue that, in addition to the provision of resources, optimising and implementing sick roads on a professional level is extremely important in relation to specialised care, including outpatient care. [[17.50]] We have not yet talked about a wide system of public health services today, which I will certainly not mention, but I would certainly mention that the revision, modernisation and improvement of the effectiveness of the screening system must be evidence, as well as some areas of disease such as circulatory disease, diabetes, cancer, prevention of mental disorders, environmental health is extremely important, because without understanding the issues of principle, resources may not be realised well. Nor has it been said that public health product tax on unhealthy products will continue to exist in 2015, which cannot yet be established in advance, which is a practical or at least an attempt to tackle the displacement of unhealthy foods, and has created the basis for a health wage increase since its introduction. Training is also extremely important to ensure a higher level of professional work. There are two areas that have undergone a so-called transformation or transformation process: this is specialist training, the quality of which needs to be improved in the direction of quality training, and it is also very important to renew health training, OKJ training and various forms of training in the field of care, which in any case is and is in the interest of the care system as a whole. It is very important that, in this organisation, capacity planning at national, regional and county level should be reviewed and reviewed together, and, in line with the needs, this should be modelled by the supply system in order to ensure proper functioning, because if these are not re-interpreted and re-interpreted, debt and various tax-related issues and, above all, amounts will be re-produced. Today we have not heard of what has not been a problem at all in recent years: the higher professional and safe supply of medicines to the public, which is very, very important. In public pharmacies, there is a so-called drug credit scheme that provides an appropriate and very favourable interest-rate subsidy mainly and primarily for pharmacists, but there is a legal provision that is even more important and has caused problems in recent years: if it is not sold to a pharmacist in this pharmacy programme, the State will have and will have a pre-emptive right, which is important that, after a transitional period, the State is able to impose the share of ownership in a tender form for a pharmacist. Do I need some data? How do I put this? More specifically, in terms of additional resources. There is an additional funding needed to implement so-called one-off institutional consolidation, all of which is HUF 60 billion. In fact, this involves the issue of hospital debt management, but without substantial changes this debt can be regenerating and should therefore be addressed and examined in a more conceptual and broader context. Practically: this HUF 60 billion planned in the 2015 budget is intended to cover the debt to suppliers in 2014, typically outside the public finances, as we hope in the near future. We have been talking about the development of basic supply many times today, but I would like to say a few more sentences on this. In particular, the Semmelweis plan was when we started in 2010, which already considered basic care as a key element, but basic care is much wider than general medical care itself, because it includes the protective network, home care, hospice care, social care, and all these integrations are necessary in order to better provide and serve the population. In addition, the development of appropriate practice communities, the improvement of their prevention services remain on the agenda, and, of course, the strengthening of the general medical system within the basic care system is a priority, which is facing quite a lot of problems. An additional HUF 900 million is available for the continuation of the residency support programme. The HUF 900 million increase in 2015 makes it possible to announce new residency scholarships, namely, in addition to the 1700 residents up to now, 700 candidates for specialist medicine and specialist medicine can be included in this scholarship programme; for income, this additional source represents a net HUF 100,000 scholarship per month. In the past, in 2014 this amount was HUF 1.65 billion, with HUF 900 million plus in 2015 this represents a 55 percent increase in financial terms. Forints 765 million are available for the financing of the air rescue, and this is what will be included in the air rescue. In 2014 the amount of air rescue is HUF 1.5 billion? If we round up the amount? reported. In fact, five of these machines, five rescue helicopters were rented in 2014, and two of them did not meet the requirements, and for some HUF 70 million, two new rescue helicopters were purchased in the last two months, which had already been operational in the air rescue. So in 2015 this HUF 581.1 million surplus is available for rents and HUF 183.9 million is available for the operation of this system. It is very important to improve air rescue, because this allows so-called 15-minute accessibility and accessibility, which is now almost everywhere in terms of air rescue. The operating support of the National Rescue Service will increase by HUF 525 million. In order to bring the 2014 aid to a level and to maintain a so-called premature rescue activity safely, this additional resource has been identified, which does not need to be explained in particular why it is very important. It is also mentioned today that a so-called state health reserve has been added to the norm, which means HUF 300 million. This framework is provided to the Health Stock Management Institute, which aims to improve the so-called medical conditions of the State Health Reserve that could not be fully realised everywhere in 2014. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] And there is one more, it is true that it is not a huge item, but it is very important: the National Chief Medical Office received HUF 40 million to develop and implement a so-called drinking water monitoring programme in the framework of the drinking water quality improvement programme. In particular, there is no need to talk about healthy drinking water. I have tried to detail these data because I think they are extremely important, they are realised in 2015 and it is clear that the health budget is clearly increasing in 2015 compared to 2014. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Kovács. The next announced speaker was Mr Ander Balázs Jobbik. [[18.00]]
u2014-11-19-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At first glance, the lines of the budget related to the National Development Ministry do not seem too tragic, obviously this is the first look, and even 2 percent more resources are devoted to the operation of the infrastructure than last year, and the amount of compensation for passenger transport is the same as in 2014. It is hoped that, in the case of EU development resources that can be used, the total volume of the former IKOP and the European Network Development Instrument will be less than the previous KözOp, but the railway will receive a stronger share of this. But like I said, it's just the cheating first look, and then the actual black soup? because what did it mean and what will it mean to look at the railway? The previous and now closing projects have renovated 600 kilometres, the infrastructure has been upgraded at this level, but it is still 1,000 kilometres from the most important sections of the Corridor Network. So there's a question of whether there'll be enough money for these. Despite developments, the so-called TEN-T network has huge problems for almost 3,000 kilometres. The area of less than 200 kilometres is the section where increased speed, increased speed, freight transport is possible, and this is only 6 percent within the TEN-T network. However, the section affected by the speed limit is around 900 kilometers, representing about one third of the sections here. It is better not to talk about the state of railway bridges, however, their technical condition is outrageous. This is far from sufficient for the axle load of 22,5 tonnes. Achieving the transport policy objectives, which Jobbik is, by the way, totally naturally supporting, so unfortunately, we have to say that it is unrealistic. What are we thinking? Moving road freight to rail, it should be said that this will be a utopia, and we cannot comply with EU standards, even though in this case we say that these are good standards and standards to be supported. Is it that Hungary and the infrastructure here will play some kind of silk road during the transport of goods and we will be the gateway to Europe? well, it seems like a far-fetched goal. By the way, we recognise that there is a huge gap between development tasks and the resources available, but during renovation investments, the feathers of the contractors will be very thick during invoicing. The Hungarian state, the Hungarian people, is being damaged by works carried out by companies with an inaccessible background, outsourcing, carteling and, indeed, the extra profit resulting in swimming pool luxury palaces, and they also draw funds from very important railway investments and railway targets. Let's just say here we're referring only to the renovation of the motorway's precious Bishop's-Sajol line, where it costs a kilometer of 2.5 billion forints, which is shocking. Let's say this actually represents ten times the Croatian prices. We say that, as in the time of the socialists, let's say, motorway construction, railway construction has now become the favorite milk cow of foreign and domestic government-friendly capitalists. The activities of so-called harmonisation managers, bag barrels, cause enormous damage and draw away from the very, very necessary additional rail development goals. The impact of rail asset development on the budget would be a very important issue. There's no way around it. The average age of the 900 MÁV-Traction locomotives and 2600 MÁV-Start cars is over 30 years old. If the government applies everything to reindustrialisation at the propaganda level, then it should prefer the highest possible volume of domestic production, domestic delivery. In any case, Jobbik supports economic protectionism, which is what it encourages the government to do. This is what 36,000 railway workers and 110 thousand Hungarian workers from at least 700 companies in domestic vehicle manufacturing expect. In addition to all these comments, there is also a much more serious problem that must be highlighted. The national transport strategy that you have adopted says that the TEN-T and the? Is that what I'm saying? for the length of competitive wing lines to be preserved, he talks about 6,000 kilometers, in Hungarian, he renounces 22 percent of the total network, 1700 kilometers of sidelines. Whatever you say, there's no record of that happening in the budget. Gyurcsány and Bajnai operated with wingline executions on the sidelines, but you prefer to play for silent bleeding and sly extermination. This is definitely rural destruction, according to Jobbik's perception. At all times, for example, in such a budget debate, we will certainly confront the government with his earlier words. You said at the time that public transport is a public service, not an economic or corporate issue, that the state is not acting in favour of its rural citizens when it provides rail transport, that is a specific state task. The issue of sidelines is a complex transport policy issue that is linked not only to purely financial and economic issues, but also to the social and territorial development complex with a much more complex impact. So is it reasonable to ask how, in addition to such conditions, you intend to promote the goals you have set? I'm just gonna quote you again? , the catching up of disadvantaged areas, labour mobility in rural areas, social, economic and territorial cohesion, increasing the competitiveness of small regions that have fallen apart, we do not see the achievement of these goals, even though Jobbik says that the countryside wants to live and that the countryside wants to travel. The other very important area, perhaps seemingly unrelated, is the issue of vocational training, which I would like to mention. The government's main economic and social policy goal is to strengthen a work-based society. Jobbik can agree with this, yes, there is a need to increase the number of people employed, reduce unemployment and create conditions for competitive vocational training. However, what we can read from the budget again brings us to a number of very serious questions. Vocational training is assigned to the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of National Economy from the Ministry of National Economy from the Ministry of Human Resources, and in this spirit the chapters of the NGM on Vocational Education and Adult Education are devoted to the entire 13 lines of the budget on page 630. Plans and concrete ideas for taking over are very vague, perhaps not yet, I mean concrete plans, and it is no wonder that the budget figures remain so in light of this. How will the funding of the vocational and vocational schools taken over develop next year? He waits for the answer of hundreds of thousands of teachers teaching students, and then another fifth of the entire educator society, almost 30 thousand educators in vocational schools and secondary schools in this 500-600 schools, which you have assigned to receive. Floating between the Ministry of Human Resources and the NGM, there is a fundamental breach of budgetary transparency, transparency and transparency. And then we didn't tell you that the amount of money that could be spent on education in 2015? But rather, if we measure this to GDP, is it 4 percent? how far is it from the 8 percent that Rose Hoffmann wanted or 10-15 percent of the GDP spent on education during Klebelsberg. According to the government, vocational training is the key issue of the economy, but even from the beginning there is no money for certain scholarships funded by the NGM. They refer to a lack of resources, reject the entry of new entrants into the system, even in the case of truly diligent, truly talented and truly willing students. It is well known that schools to be taken over by NGM will have plenty of disadvantaged students, disadvantaged students, even those who really want a profession, really need help, deserve it, but we do not see the source. If the budget numbers were more transparent and the stakeholders were not only informed about what they had decided many times over their heads and without them, then perhaps these fears would also be resolved. Sándor Czomba, State Secretary for Vocational Training, said that NGM is building a homogeneous vocational training institution and that they also want to increase the proportion of vocational school pupils. According to many educators, this will result in the education of vocational schools and the development of vocational schools similar to vocational schools, which means that, by allowing the pressure of the industrial lobby, public knowledge will be reduced here as well, and the number of teachers will depend very strongly on the number of hours. [[18.10]] Jobbik supports strengthening practical education, does not consider dual vocational training to be a devil, but both the government and the budget start from the isolated modernisation example of Audi in Győr or Mercedes in Kecskemét, not from the Hungarian reality. In order to achieve government goals, the involvement of SMEs in dual vocational training would also be necessary, but this would require not only clumsy plans but also specific resources. In order not to achieve the social anti-utopia of basic training versus biorobot production, the state would have to assume much more responsibility at the source level. Due to the shortness of time, I'd like to refer to one more thing. While the revenues of the National Employment Fund from the VET contribution amount to HUF 63 billion, only HUF 16 billion is foreseen for VET and adult training support. However, this is aimed at supporting apprenticeships, the proportion of which should indeed be increased, as well as the development of workshops and the related development of tools. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker, who announced this in advance, is Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, before I share some of my thoughts with you in the draft budget of 2015, I would like to respond to the suggestion of my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, on the modernisation of railway lines, I think it was indeed appropriate and important. I think we are proud to say in any way that we who came to this large house as Members of Parliament from Somogy, that many years and decades of waiting have come true by the fact that the renovation of the railway lines in Somogy County has now come to a realistic approach. Among other things, I can say my own constituency, the constituencies of Siófok, where the legitimate needs of many decades can be fulfilled thanks to the support of the New Széchenyi Plan. Practically a railway section of more than 30 kilometers can be refurbished between Lepsény and Szántód-Kőröshegy stations thanks to the support of the New Széchenyi Plan for HUF 30 billion. The good news is that it is also planned to continue in the next operational programme, but I understand that the renovation of the Kaposvár-Dombóvár railway line is also planned in the county. So I think it is absolutely right, on the one hand, what my fellow Member has said about the importance of railway lines, that this section of transport can indeed be achieved much cheaper and more efficiently, by directing road transport on the railway line. But I think it's good to see positive, forward-looking signs and changes. So there are not only negatives, but there are also encouraging signs of development, at least in our region; in Siófok and its surroundings, it is a special pleasure for me. Ladies and gentlemen, Now allow me to come to some of my thoughts on the draft budget law 2015; let me share some thoughts with you. I think one of the main messages of the 2015 budget is that the next year's management will be well-founded and predictable, and that the banks will finally be so long-awaited to be accounted for. On average, it has been discussed several times now, with foreign exchange loans being reduced by about 25-30 percent, and the situation of foreign exchange lenders can be calculated by the forinting of loans, and the fact of exchange rate risk can finally be eliminated, which has caused so many difficulties for the authentic in recent years. These measures will give Hungarian families approximately HUF 1000 billion back. The draft budget submitted by the government for 2015 provides sufficient guarantees that more money will remain with Hungarian families in the future. In addition to the accountability of banks, the continuation of the reduction in overhead costs, the opportunities offered by the family tax system and the Gyed extra, the marriage tax reduction as a new element, serves both to improve the existential situation of families and to encourage further expansion of trade flows. As set out in the Fundamental Law, the proposed legislation also aims to further reduce public debt. Accordingly, the debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to decrease to 75,4 percent by the end of next year. I would add that at present about 30% of this total gross debt is in foreign currency, while this indicator reached 50 percent under socialist governments. It could also be said that the forinting has also started with regard to public debt. It is important to stress that the government remains committed to maintaining financial stability and encouraging economic growth. The 2015 budget accounts for a 2.5 percent economic growth and a 2.4 percent budget deficit. Next year's budget, as well as the previous four, is the result of conscious planning. The main task of the civilian government that took office in 2010 was to overcome the serious legacy created by the socialists, to save the country from total collapse and to avoid bankruptcy. I think that this does not need to be specified in particular, because we have lived here and we all live here, and the whole country's population has experienced the conditions under which the Hungarian economy had to be tilted back from the brink. After the bankruptcy, there was a period of stability when, together with the Hungarian people, we established the basis for growth, thanks to the efforts of the Hungarian people. Today, we can safely say that 2014 is already a year of rise, and hopefully economic growth will continue in 2015. The economic policy successes of recent years are also evident in the development of economic indicators such as a reduction in public debt, a steady increase in the number of employees, record low inflation, keeping the level of government deficits below 3 per cent, the repayment of the total amount of IMF loans taken up by socialists or even the continued provision of conditions for economic growth. Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have often said that our aim is to create full employment. The signs of this intention can also be seen in the 2015 draft budget. The draft law provides a source for the public work programme, the economic effectiveness and social benefits of which are tangible, as it provides work for those who want to work instead of aid. Of course, government programmes that encourage employment and the action plan for the protection of jobs will continue in the future. The 2015 draft budget will continue on the way forward to increase public sector workers' wages. In fact, in the same way that health care workers have to organise their wages and improve the existential situation of teachers, they consider the recognition of law enforcement workers to be of particular importance and important. In this spirit, an armed and police career model can be launched in 2015, with the result that the salary of employees in the sector will increase by around 30 percent from 1 July 2015. I would also like to address the situation of Hungarian families in a few sentences. The single-key proportional tax system launched in 2011 was introduced to strengthen the middle class and family tax incentives to encourage families to have children. Thanks to the family tax system, some 240 billion HUF stays with families next year. This tax system rewards the work, since those who work more earn more, spend more and live better. This tax policy continues to aim at creating a proportionate and uniform tax system, reducing the tax burden on labour, reducing the burden on businesses and increasing the competitiveness of Hungarian companies. However, a well-planned budget should also pay attention and think about social groups such as pensioners. We all remember that during their administration, the socialists took a month's pension from pensioners. In 2010, the civilian government promised that it would do everything possible to keep the purchasing value of pensions at least at a level. In keeping with this commitment, pensions have increased three times in Hungary since 2010. The government remains committed to preserving the stability of the pension system and the value of pensions. Therefore, in 2015, elderly benefits will increase at the rate of inflation, i.e. at the moment, by 1.8 percent. Older people's burdens are further reduced even by the reduction of their costs, the results of which the government wants to preserve by launching the national utility system. Dear Parliament, Today, the European Union recognises Hungary's performance. We are one of the few EU countries who have been able to continuously reduce both government deficits and public debt. [[18.20]] In its autumn forecast published by the European Commission on 4 November 2014, the European Commission expects almost the same prognosis as the Hungarian government in terms of key indicators. As supported by the professional opinion of the Fiscal Council, next year's draft budget law is well founded and the Fiscal Council does not have any fundamental objections to its credibility or enforceability that justify a sign of disagreement. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up what I have said, I think it is safe to say that the 2015 budget will indeed be the budget for accounting banks, the primary winners of which are Hungarian families. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. The next speaker is Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik.
u2014-11-19-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If Congressman Witzmann has finished with the Hungarian families, I would like to continue here. They forget that, despite their many promises, they cannot come up with a social policy discount system, which is sufficient to create normal or real housing, because the current system is extremely low in its envelope, on the one hand, and that virtually no one meets the conditions, or very few meet the conditions. This includes the need to provide a higher level of resources for the first and second children, whether it is a family-married construction, which, in contrast to statistical cosmetics, has virtually ceased or has fallen to a very minimum in Hungary, especially in the Eastern counties, it is virtually impossible to talk about self-strong family-married constructions. This is why it may be important, on the one hand, for the purpose of boosting the second-hand housing market, to determine social policy preferences for the purchase, renovation and expansion of apartments in higher amounts, since about 500 thousand properties are empty in Hungary. This is partly one of the consequences of the enormous exodus. So not necessarily construction, new constructions must be forced when there are plenty of apartments that can be bought at relatively low prices in virtually all counties and in most settlements of the country, and these should not provide social policy benefits of HUF 750 thousand or HUF 1.5 million. Any HUF invested for this purpose would be recouped several times, as I am sure that many young people and people in the middle age class who are about to start a family would be much more likely to choose to stay in the country, with much less chance of leaving the country if at least their housing situation could be achieved from credit-free or very small loans. For most people, the social policy discount and the proper resuscitation of the Socpol could be a solution, and instead of building stadiums it would be much more useful to invest money in this. I'm telling you this as an obsessed, perverse football friend, but seeing the beating of the Hungarian club teams and seeing the very, very modest performance of the Hungarian team, and seeing the audiences that have sunk to an unprecedented low point, the NB I rounds produce an average of 1500 in some places, but it is increasingly common that only a few hundred viewers visit the matches of the Budapest teams, the tens of billions of forints invested in this. Putting these or at least some of these into social policy incentives to help young people create homes would boost the used housing market, which would generate substantial tax and tax revenues for the state, would boost the construction sector, as car manufacturing and car component production should at last not only be supported, would create a great deal of jobs from auxiliary work to professional work, and a significant increase in public revenues could also be achieved by boosting construction material production. This would therefore really be able to boost the Hungarian economy, to curb or prevent ever more serious migration. Instead, you are investing in far less useful goals, such as the stadium constructions mentioned above. In spite of the success of Secretary Kontra's propaganda, I finally withdrew my two-minute period a few hours ago, but I cannot help but ask Mr. Secretary of State that we settle this issue in the next three and a half years: you know very well why we have not voted in favour of the legislative proposals that you have been referring to for practically five years. It's a very boring record, even if it's awakened from its sleep, it's probably saying that Jobbik didn't vote for it, didn't support the government's various law enforcement proposals. Anyone who says so should also say yes, tell them why the Jobbik didn't support it. You did not support it, Mr. Secretary of State, because you presented them almost without exception in the form of a salad bill. They've always involved additives that they knew couldn't be voted for. If you'll be willing to submit these on your own in the future, believe me, we may be able to support them in a hundred percent of the cases. You have destroyed, killed those very important organizations, the Hungarian Guard and other Guard-type organizations, and the truly effective civil guards that have never committed any crime and have included them in these proposals, they wanted us to accept this, they knew well that we would say no, and then you can rely for years on what Jobbik is talking about when it comes to law enforcement, when the Btk. We have not voted, or have not voted in full, to tighten it up. If they are submitted on their own, you can be sure that we will support all measures and amendments to the law in the direction of tightening, but as long as such shady methods are used in order to run ahead and use this as a reference, we will not be able to support them. At the same time, I consider this optimism to be a treasury, and I would also suggest to you a disguised countrywalking in order to see what conditions prevail within the Hungarian police force, or how many settlements are not fully covered by police supervision or police operation, with what amazing administrative burden the police are working, and what constant unnecessary tension and pressure the police officers are under in relation to over-controls, even though they should probably be in the upper police department, and corruption usually reeks of the fish basis should be investigated from there, and when they are done there, they can then reach lower levels of stock. With regard to the municipalities, it is possible to talk for at least an hour about this chapter. Now I'd like to highlight three areas. We consider the funding of municipal staff to be low. In this case, we would like to achieve a 10% increase, and we have tabled an amendment to this. It would also be desirable for the possibility of introducing or levying a local tax and instead of raising existing taxes, to create that not only 40 percent of the car tax would remain on the ground, but a much higher rate. We wouldn't consider 100 percent to be a waste, but there's no reason to raise the current 40. Also remember that it is true that some HUF 1300 billion of debts were taken from the municipalities, but with the overall interest burden of these they reduced the funding of the municipal system. Again, they do not add that, yes, we have taken over the vast majority of the debt, but at the same time we have reduced the funding of municipalities by various tricks, and in many places re-debtedness has started. They do not properly reward the responsible self-governments, because we consider the amount of about HUF 12 billion that was intended to be insufficient. For example, it is an excellent opportunity to do so by granting these municipalities a privileged beneficiary status in the self-strong applications of domestic and EU development funds, and then, in the case of small settlements, it is possible to add total self-esteem to EU or other resources. This would indeed put in place the municipalities that had provided as far as their blankets were concerned between 1990 and 2012-2013. Last but not least, I would like to present two important areas and their county constituencies to this House. One is related to the patient care and healthcare of the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county in the Szatmár region. Szatmár-Bereg Hospital and Spa Zrt.? a nice long-name institution that Fidesz developed in the framework of the hospital holding organisation between 2006 and 2010? The people of Mátészalka and the people around the city are trying to heal here under completely unworthy Balkan conditions. This is not to be underestimated, my fellow Members, because there are about 140,000 in the area of supply, so it affects a very significant part of the county. This should not only involve extra resources in hospital care in a firefighter's capacity, but also in the development of the existing fleet and equipment of the emergency services, and what the region has deserved for a very long time would also require the setting up of several ambulances, children and/or premature rescuers, as the lives of adults and young children may depend on the timely availability of an emergency service and staff with adequate skills to arrive at the location of an unexpected event. As opposed to the area, a 15-year-old or almost 20-year-old promise, which has not been fulfilled, is the case of the M49 bypass road, which affects not only the Mátészalka-based constituency, but also other areas of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, several constituencies. It is true that we cannot complain about motorway constructions recently, as in January 2013 the section of the M3 between Nyíregyháza-Őr was handed over, and this year, shortly before the municipal elections, the section between the Őr-Vásárosnámném was handed over. [[18.30]] So that would be fine in that way. Another thing is that we could scrape the construction figures projected for miles here, the possible built-in corruption rate, but that's not what I want to talk about right now. Now I want to mention that they've been promising to build the M49 bypass road for 15 to 20 years. Until 2010, it seemed that this could be achieved at two stages: Őr-Ököritópülpös, Ököritópülpös-State border with paces. Unfortunately, you have torn this apart into three parts, at the moment Őr-Győrtelek, Győrtelek-Pátyod, Pátyod-State border, with the end of 2030. If all is true, it may start in 2017. I would like to urge you to review your position, to start this investment as soon as possible next year, as preparations, permits and plans are in very good condition. The preparation of the project will enable it to create a chance and opportunity to start this first. However, it is important not only to connect the Őr-Csenger-Szatmáret line to the bloodstream of the country and thus Europe, but also because the transport of high-quality agricultural products in the area, especially large quantities of apples and sour cherries, is significantly facilitated; they significantly help to preserve the state or consistency of overloaded two-digit main roads; to preserve the property of the settlements in the area; to significantly reduce the risk of accidents; and, finally and above all, to create a great deal of jobs for the implementation of the project. This could mean thousands of jobs between 2017 and 2030 in 13 years, and at last public workers or public workers could spend their time working intelligently, productively and with higher incomes. Maybe in the past and the next 50 years, the M49 would be the biggest development option in the area. In this regard, and in addition to the development of hospital and emergency services, I tabled amendments. I would very much ask you to support these, not to look at the fact that it was submitted by an opposition or a better representative, but to say that it would also be able to significantly improve your nymphus which has been ripped apart, since there are a lot of local entrepreneurs and a lot of under-qualified or well-trained workers and workers who could find their calculation. Moreover, a nearly 20-year-old debt would be repaid to the Satmar region, Mátészalka, which functions as the capital of Szatmár, which is of common interest to all of us regardless of party interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-116	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. László György Lukács is the right-hand representative for two minutes.
u2014-11-19-117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Apart from the refreshing exception we had to listen to, it was nothing more than the attack of the Rogán clones, and it was extremely boring, spiced up with Habony Works. I mean, almost everyone was doing the same thing that Antal Rogán was doing on the podium across the street. But to discuss something that affected me in health care, it was the comment of our fellow Member, Kovács, who was otherwise highly valued as a doctor, who evidently started from his own experience. After all, he was blurring out things that the press had already known, and that was the change of structure and the tasks associated with the change of structure. He seems to be talking about a volume that isn't embedded in the budget, and nowhere to find the resources he's been talking about, and the reorganizations the health care is facing. I think he might have slipped something out of what the press thought was a long time ago. By the way, it has already started in these areas, in the next patient care areas, or on routes, the koncos have started to fight in the background, if you can believe the internal information. The other was that basic care was extremely important, and compared to that, it was always said that GPs, GPs, GPs, GPs, but by the way, did you mention it? Just to complete the list? the issue of home care, for which it is interesting that the government does not want to spend extra resources, extra money, but the same is true for the women in charge, or the same is true for dentists, but they belong to the basic care. I believe that there is a need for this to be a much larger pool of resources. Can I still be allowed in the field of public safety? Is that what we talked about? an observation of his own. Crime statistics are as bad as crime statistics on scratches, and there's no other way to do it. In essence, local public security is in ruins. I think if you can't help us, at least don't hurt the Karcagia. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] support the construction of the new Karcag Police Department. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior.
u2014-11-19-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what Congressman István Apáti said. On the one hand, if they had supported those very important legislative proposals, there would be no need to explain. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] On the other hand, what he said about the police presence, I would like to say that, according to the national public safety model programme extended from 1 July 2014, there is a police presence in all settlements, depending on the public safety needs of the settlement. Local authorities, the mayors, are consulted by local police bodies, and the necessary degree of police presence is ensured in all the municipalities of Hungary. The results? Again, I don't want to repeat it numerically? demonstrate that this programme has effective, improved results. But obviously I'm telling you right now that we want even better results, and that's why we want to do it again in 2015. As far as the police administration is concerned, the police are not meant to impose different administrative burdens on police officers, but rather to provide the most effective service and to set standards for staff. But was it even more serious than that? What I'd like to refuse? I don't know what kind of expression he used, but that was the point, and that corruption was present. I strongly reject that. With the establishment of the National Defence Service on 1 January 2011, the National Defence Service has done a great deal to ensure that internal crime prevention tasks, checks on impeccable living, other checks and security checks are carried out to ensure that this area is clean. But, honourable Member, if you are aware of a crime or a corruption crime, you should report it, and I believe that the competent bodies will act immediately. But I would ask you to make a prudent statement on this issue, because if you do not know such things, you will prove that Jobbik is just talking, not helping public safety, but still acting against it. So, Congressman, I'm asking you to consider this. As far as the situation in Karcag is concerned, I would like to say to the right-wing Member following you that our aim is to improve public security in all the settlements of Hungary. Our aim is not what you have tried to say here, but our aim is not to hinder the improvement of public safety, but to improve public safety in both Karcagon and Hungary's 3154 settlements. Please support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Sándor Bodó, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In October 2014, the government submitted the 2015 draft budget bill to the Parliament. It is always worth looking at a country's budget as to what social policy it reflects, what its main characteristics are, what its main messages are. Well, the main messages are clear. There is a time for banks to be accounted for, more money left in health care, wage increases for teachers, respect for law enforcement workers, substantial support for farmers, and pensions remain valuable. A new development policy is starting, we can count on more EU funds, we hope bureaucracy will be reduced, more money will be made available to civil society organisations. Following the debt settlement, a new calculation of time can also start for municipalities, and the organisation of transport activities and services will be more predictable. These are very important things that determine our future not just for a year, but probably for several years or longer. But despite the noble goals, despite all the good plans, it is a good idea not to deal with the most important component of society, the families. The 2015 budget contains many important things, but I am convinced that its main message is to strengthen families. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that the most important social policy goal is therefore to strengthen families. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] For me, this draft budget guarantees that more money will be left over by people, since the family tax system will remain, there will be a continuation of the reduction of the rent, and due to bank accountability, the instalments will be reduced by 25-30 percent. [[18.40]] The previously introduced 16 percent personal income tax rate, supplemented by the family tax scheme, leaves billions of HUF per year in the family budget. This gives Hungarian families the opportunity to create better conditions for themselves and for the Hungarian economy to recover from consumption. From a social policy point of view, it is also important that people who want to work and can get a job. Today, more than 4 million people work in Hungary, and the unemployment rate is below 8 percent. I believe that this statistical fact should not be underestimated, as many European countries have far worse indicators. We've done a lot to get people to work, to make a living for themselves, for their families. Within the European Union, unemployment has fallen to the greatest extent in Hungary over the last year, employment is at a peak of 22 years, employment has been above 4 million people for several months. Aid can't be a life strategy, aid can't be a family. It can be for the job, and it can only be for the job. To this end, we will continue the public work programme, the job protection action plan, and we will introduce as a new element that next year there will also be a tax relief after part-time employment of parents with small children. Dear House, Mr President, Fellow Members! We can therefore say that we have before us a budget bill that is about the future. It also has sustainability aspects, as people's life opportunities improve to the extent that the country's performance permits. I request your support for the adoption of the budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-19-122	Thank you, Congressman Bodo. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik, for two minutes.
u2014-11-19-123	Mr President, Dear House, One of the victims of today's so-called debate may be the creation of jobs on which there are pros and cons, but in fact everyone blew theirs. I am trying to clarify through a brief case study and fact, why the government should also change its policy in this draft budget, and why it should be taken back from certain types of subsidies and other types of subsidies. In the year 2000, Hankook's rubber factory received a state grant of HUF 16 billion for its Hungarian plant. Were there 1,500 jobs out of this at the time? Is the paper on him in front of me? It cost us HUF 10.5 million to create a single job, as this is about taxpayers' money. At that time, Fidesz, as a opposition party, was, in its order and manner, very well freaked out, outraged, but we are seriously mistaken if we believe that after 2000 the situation changed, or the former government behavior or technology, after taking over power. Okay, it has changed a bit, because in 2013 the South Korean company was able to pocket nearly twice that amount, 19 million for every newly recruited employee, only then the new government gave this support, the one that had previously rebelled very hard against the same attitude in opposition. The workers of the Dunaújváros plant were among the better earners at the time, they could bring home net HUF 200,000 per month. This costs the employer about HUF 4.5 million annually. Thus, the Hungarian State, together with gross wages and contributions, will actually cover the salary of Hankook's workers for four whole years. So the story against which you rebelled very loudly from the opposition has become a double-supported area in the case of a multinational company, and once again, you give four or six times more to a multi-company as a job creation support on average than to a Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur. If you are looking for a strategic partner, you should look for the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise and change the draft budget in this spirit! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-124	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Demeter Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-125	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, First of all, allow me to react, even a little too late, to the accusations of some opposition representatives. Congresswoman Márta Demeter isn't here right now. For the record, we're not related. There's just a name I.D. [[István Apáti: You want it!]] Or Nándor Gúr, and there are still a few who say they're stealing, cheating, lying very easily. Yeah, I think they're making false accusations and judging. I think of myself as a peaceful, patient man. I also look at who says what they say, but I think this has happened for many times, and I would therefore like to ask for it on my behalf and, of course, on behalf of my fellow Members, on behalf of the Group Alliance, for this accusation and for anyone to be called a liar at any time? Don't do that. When I was a child, my parents and grandparents raised me and taught me that the other person should be respected. They also taught us not to lie or to steal, but to earn a living from honest work. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Andy Vajna!]] But if you're talking about lies, let me mention that fact, and let me remind you of the members of the MSZP faction that exactly your prime minister made a confession in Autumn when he said that we lied day and night. And it's not accusations, it's confessions. In my opinion, people who accuse others of lying and stealing do so because they, themselves, live and act as they do. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's look at the facts. I would also like to respond to the words of Mr Nándor Gúr, and should I remind him that, before 2010, during the eight years of the governance of the MSZP, we managed to create a society based on aid, in debt to the country, taking on loans? Can we think of the IMF loan here? and financed by these loans the amount of aid. Then there was so much talk of community service between the walls of the house, especially from the benches of the MSZP! I would like to say that before 2010, there was no difference between public wages and aid, and as mayor, I know exactly what a problem this was in the settlements, because when we wanted to hire people for community service, the question was why I should go to work eight hours or six hours if I received this amount as aid. Before 2010, the state only financed between 70 and 80 per cent of the wage and 90 per cent of the public wage, but there was no possibility for municipalities to buy and buy work equipment, which could naturally have been used. After 2010, the government aims at a work-based society, and I would like to emphasise here that after 2010, the state finances 100% of public workers' wages. [[It's constant noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] In fact, in recent years, have local governments had access to such funds? and you have to go to settlements, you have to ask the mayors of the settlements how, from what source they were able to buy work equipment, and so they can implement value-making public works programmes. The best example of this, I think, is the way in which the labour centres held a product show in Borsod County, precisely from the produced materials and goods that the public works programme has enabled the municipalities to implement and, for example, in Miskolc, on the main street, several pavilions were set up. You should have been there, and you should have seen how much praise they received from unknown people who looked at it with their mouths open, making it seem incredible that these goods were made by public workers. [[18.50]] Indeed, one million jobs have not been created [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: None.]] However, the aim is to ensure that as many people work in Hungary as possible, and this is the difference between pre-2010 and post-2010 governance, and precisely in this 2015 budget there is an additional resource to continue public work programmes and to enable municipalities to do more and better value-making work. Dear Parliament, Allow me to talk about the 2015 budget, including the plans for public education, so I will share a few thoughts with you. Continuing the renewal of public education is a priority in 2015 as I believe that quality education is the basis for the future of children and the country. Competitive knowledge, educator's wage increase, the renewal of vocational training, these indicators could be used to describe, in my opinion, future public education plans. In more detail, it is an important and even very important change that from September 2015 the kindergarten will be mandatory for early development of children from the age of three. However, from a three-year compulsory kindergarten? Is that a condition? exemptions may have been granted to those who consider that the preparation for school in the family is better ensured by the age of five. The government also aims to create a further thousand cradle seats from EU and domestic sources of 4.8 billion by the end of 2015. In fact, the current number of 42,000 cradle seats would be increased to 60,000 by the government in the EU's development period until 2020, and these are very serious figures, since they would represent 18,000 additional seats. I believe that access to knowledge is still not a question of money, so we are helping families with children to make a living with all our efforts. Thus, the free textbook supply will continue in 2015 and more children will receive free textbooks than ever before. I would also like to note here that in 2015 there will be more resources for children's meals, and I would like to point out to Mr Gúr that, in the last government term, the amount for children's meals has increased every year, and that a representative should be aware of the municipal law, on the basis of which it is a mandatory municipal task to feed children who are disadvantaged and whose family income does not reach a certain amount. These municipal tasks were fully respected everywhere, including in Bánhorváti, my settlement, for all the children who needed them, three meals a day were provided in the kindergarten, and the schoolchildren also received lunch. So in 2015 there will be more resources for children's meals, with more than HUF 5 billion compared to this year, so next year the government will spend 58 billion. Of course, the increase in teachers' wages will continue in 2015, with the biggest wage increase since the regime change launched in 2013, affecting 160,000 teachers. After the average 30% increase last year, the wages of workers in the sector increase every year until 2017. Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, the situation of vocational education has been deteriorating for decades, with a demographic indicator, an unfavorable structure of training, and, perhaps, with uncertain professional knowledge, which is why unemployment and the lack of skilled labour are present at the same time. It is therefore essential in our view that the government should continue to expand the dual vocational training system, because it is an important task to increase the number of skilled workers, to overcome the shortage of professionals, because more skilled workers and technicians are needed than the current training system is issuing. The rise of the Hungarian economy requires the provision of a well-trained, adequate number of workers and the prevention of the re-production of unemployment. The aim of the transformation of the vocational school system is to increase the attractiveness of vocational training and restore the honour of manual labour. One of the tools for this can be to provide further learning opportunities for VET participants, so that vocational education and training can also be provided for higher education in addition to work. Dear Parliament, So we can say that there is more money for schools. The Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre will receive a HUF 50 billion additional resource to ensure the safe financing of the increased wages of teachers, improving the functioning and development of schools, which we hope will help us to ensure a smoother operation, in order to eliminate the mistakes and shortcomings that have so far been made. The plans for next year could therefore be summarised briefly as follows: more children than ever have a free textbook, from September 2015 the preschool will be mandatory for early development from the age of three, and, of course, we will continue to raise the teacher's wages and expand the dual vocational training system in 2015. I believe that this will continue to increase the quality of education and education in 2015. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Beating up.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-19-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-11-19-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Was there a question? I think so? you have received insufficient weight during today's debate, and I would add that I have an amendment on this subject. It's about the pocket contracts. I have tabled a proposal to initiate the establishment of a body that would be able to do the work that you and your predecessors have failed to do in recent decades by bringing together the relevant ministries, various authorities and prosecutors. Here among the walls of the House, your ministers and ministers of state have repeatedly admitted that there are currently about 800,000 hectares in Hungary, which are being usurped in one form or another, but foreigners have not yet committed themselves to a significant step. There was a Btk tightening and some measures, but we did not see any tangible impact on them. The fact that the mass legalization of pocket contracts has not begun, but do not show this as a result, please, is nothing more than iceing the problem. In addition, last week's news, that there is a good chance that the European Union will destroy Hungary's new land law, this condition, this frozen state, could become even more life-threatening at any moment. There will be a judgment on this in any case in the course of next year. So I encourage you to support this amendment, because we know of a number of settlements, dozens of settlements where 80 percent or more of the land is often cultivated by foreigners, making it completely impossible for Hungarian farmers to move forward, create a viable estate size and provide their families with decent care. In this way, I strongly demand that the government take effective action. What they have done so far is obviously more than we have seen before from socialist governments, but it is not enough to solve the problem. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[19.00]]
u2014-11-19-128	Thank you very much. Mr. István Nagy, State Secretary, would like to speak for two minutes.
u2014-11-19-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I have to ask because he made a statement that practically doesn't have any reality. It is likely to express its fears when it states that the land law adopted in Hungary will be annulled and returned by the European Union. That's not what I'm talking about. What's the real deal? It is about an investigation, but not only the Hungarian land law, but also the land laws of all the countries of the European Union are being examined by the European Commission and questions are being asked. It is not, therefore, that only Hungary is in this circle, but that the European Union is examining the land laws of virtually all countries and that they intend to make findings. The questions asked to the Hungarian government were answered by the wallet, and the investigation does not go at all to the fact that in the Hungarian land law, we can protect and prove precisely which question Hungary took over from the land laws of which country. So it is fully adapted to its Europeanism, to compliance with what was expected of us, and about which Hungary has found ways to protect our last inch of land. The Member cannot say that the government has not done everything, because the pocket contract law that we adopted before Christmas carries such strict measures that thinn out its partner in the European Union. Indeed, it is criticised by many, since it greatly reduces the opportunity that they think is due to others, citizens of the European Union. Hungary declared its intention to protect its land, not to sell land to anyone, but to put it in Hungarian hands and into Hungarian property. We are doing everything we can for this reason, and I think that the law already demonstrates and explains the effect that no such entries have been made at all since then, and my fellow Member, living along the western border, can see that these portfolios are very clean. At all, not the going forward, but the purification of this and the purification of the whole system are visible and ongoing, not the bursting of this. The Public Prosecutor's Office examines and obtains results that enable Hungary to meet and defend its right towards the European Union. I believe that everything you have said is unworthy of the work that is being done in this Parliament in connection with land law and the history of land protection. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-19-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Péter Agh, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-19-131	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me, as a member of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee, to evaluate the budget on behalf of our group from the point of view of defence. In creating a defence budget, the government has acted sparingly, so that the defence can guarantee that all its tasks will be fulfilled. Laying down corner numbers will enable predictable, secure planning for the future, which, I think, is particularly important in this area. By 2015, priority was given to ensuring the basic operating conditions of the Hungarian Defence Office, the needs of the tasks related to international commitments and the provision of appropriations for military equipment expenditure in line with the long-term strategic plan of the portfolio for the period 2013-2022. In the chapter justification of the bill, it is clear that the total amount of support for 2015 will be increased by HUF 5 billion and the total revenue will be increased by HUF 3.1 billion compared to the revised appropriations for 2014. The figures show that the chapter's total expenditure exceeds the previous year's data by HUF 9 billion, which currently represents an increase of 3.7 percent. The 2015 budget of the chapter also includes an additional source of support for the wage development of the Petty Officer's and Crew's staff carried out in 2014. After all, the costs of the HUF 10 thousand per person per month wage development introduced this year represent a surplus of HUF 2 billion. Gripen's rent and other expenses amount to HUF 22.7 billion in terms of military technology programmes. Forint 2.6 billion forints for the purchase of military VHF radios and 2.7 billion forints for the automotive procurement programme in 2015. The HUF 1.7 billion additional funding will be available for the development of the direct air support capability related to Hungarian participation in the V4-EU battle group in the following year. The chapter contains 1.4 billion HUF for the modernisation of the Mistral cover system. The expenditure of international tasks in 2015 was determined taking into account the planned changes in NATO and EU operations in 2015 and the corresponding Hungarian engagement. Here we can see that less resources will be provided for engagement in Afghanistan than in the previous year. The reason for this is that, as NATO, our country continues to reduce its engagement in Afghanistan. KFOR's involvement, however, will be higher than in 2014 compared to the current one. The reason for this is that the Hungarian Defence Office confirms its quota by one century. Ladies and gentlemen, The planned resources will guarantee that the Hungarian Defence Forces will be able to perform their international obligations under the Allied System in a high-quality manner recognised and appreciated by NATO in 2015. On this basis, we also welcome Parliament's support for the vote on the budget from the point of view of defence. Ladies and gentlemen, In the end, I would add, if you would allow me to make a comment on the fact that several Members have told us about the directions for the development of transport in their constituency and in their county, and we have heard more about them. Obviously, there are still problems ahead of us that we have to solve, but in my own constituency? Which is North Vas County, although I can say this all over Iron County? The years we are living in now are the years of transport development. While earlier, before 2010, they were just talking about the fact that there will be a 86-way one day, we have finally started this process since 2010 thanks to our strained work, and in the following year, thanks to EU and domestic resources, we will be able to pass another section between Szeleste and Hegyfalu. In addition, road development is not only taking place, but, as we have heard in the case of Somogy County, rail development has also started at a high pace. The electrification between Pornács and Csorna is in full swing, the result of which, if the works are going well, the travelling public will be able to enjoy next summer. So, both by road and rail, significant investments are being made in Vas County, which I think everyone living there can look on with hope, thanks to domestic and EU funds. I trust that this work that we have started in the field of road construction can continue, because, as I said before, all this has been talked about, but now the work is taking place, and that is the most important thing. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-19-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Peter Agh. I give the floor to Minister for Defence Csaba Hende.
u2014-11-19-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we Hungarians have every reason to be confident, and as a representative of Vas County, let me join my fellow Member Péter Ágh's appendix, which he added to his budget expoze. Indeed, there is a very big difference compared to the 2002-2010 period when it was 3.5 kilometers from road 86. Now we will achieve the entire 100 kilometers, because today Hungary has a government that knows what it owes to people living in the region and knows that development, investment and new jobs are coming on wheels. These wheels are either on four-track highways or on electrified railway tracks everywhere. [[19.10]] But in order to get to the issue of defence, we all know that this government has been supporting defence workers since its establishment. From the beginning, our policy focused on creating the right conditions for the military. We have achieved very serious results against the failed economic policy and corruption of socialist governments' defence policies. We were able to take action, but we can't be fully satisfied yet. Is it because a government pursuing a responsible defence policy must pursue two main objectives, one of which is staff? As they say at the army; does that mean the soldiers, the people? , i.e. improving the living conditions of staff and the purchase and maintenance of adequate technical equipment. We have always kept these two main goals in mind, but it took four years of hard work to take greater steps. I do not wish to detail here all the cardinal measures of the last four years, such as the creation of a new law on defence, the creation of a new national military strategy, the formation of the Military National Security Service, or even the addition of HUF 10 thousand to the salary of the petty officers and crew from 1 January of this year. I would like to talk about what we are going to achieve in the foreseeable future. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that a budget bill is good if we not only pay attention to where the country will be next, but we also see where we want to be in 5-10 years' time. The government is committed to increasing defence spending, and its intention to implement defence expenditure is 1046/2012. it is subject to a government decision. In the decision, the government undertook to increase the total amount of aid by 1,4% of GDP, i.e. the gross national product, from 2016 onwards, by 0,1 percentage points per year. This process has been accelerated, taking into account, of course, the changed security policy environment and the new tasks agreed by the state and the Heads of Government at the NATO Summit in Wales at the beginning of September this year. Accordingly, next year the budget for the chapter will exceed the 2014 figure by HUF 9 billion, which represents an increase of 3.7 percent. It is important to point out that we are going to implement basic equipment purchases, such as HUF 2.6 billion for the purchase of VHF radios and HUF 2.7 billion for the continuation of the car procurement programme. Our Mistral anti-aircraft weapons system is modernized from 1.4 billion forints. Within the framework of the development related to the EU Battle Group of the Visegrád Four, we create the development of the so-called air support capacity of our Gripen weapon system worth 1.7 billion forints; this means the creation of air-to-ground strike capacity in Hungarian and simply in air-to-ground. In the framework of international engagements in defence, we are dedicated to the KFOR mission, the Kosovo peacekeeping mission under the auspices of NATO, which also demonstrates our country's unwavering and unwavering commitment to peace and security in the Western Balkans. According to the government's decisions, further increase in the total amount of expenditure is expected. Because it's not in there yet? is it not allowed for technical reasons? the amount of resources needed to carry out the development work of the papal airport, and is there no so-called high-level military force at the Welsh NATO summit? English short for VJTF? Nor will the cost of preparation and installation of the Hungarian component, which will also be a significant and additional amount to be provided to the wallet in the course of next year; this is also due to technical reasons why we are not yet able to determine exactly the amount required. You can see, therefore, that we are developing the technical supply and military capabilities of the defence, but that is not enough. If there are no people who manage the assets, the newly purchased assets, then completely unnecessary? How about a little exaggeration? We spend billions on technical improvements. We have already spent considerable money on training personnel, continuing training of well-trained soldiers, but we also need to make sure that these professionals are able to see a stable and secure career in the army. What we want to do is to estimate the sacrifice of our soldiers as part of a secure and predictable career. Therefore, the government decided to increase the salary of 30 per cent as part of the military career model as of 1 July 2015, and this will be increased by 5 per cent a year, resulting in a 50% increase in the remuneration of soldiers by 2019. It is a technical issue, but the chapter budget does not include the appropriations for the development of salaries, which is about HUF 11 billion in our portfolio; this, too, is covered by the 2015 wage compensation on the provisions of the Prime Minister's Office chapter. So this HUF 11 billion will increase the total cost of the wallet, but obviously, until it is used, the Treasury will not pay this amount to the wallet. Mr President, Dear House, From the defence budget overall, I can therefore say the following: thanks to responsible management, we are heading in the right direction, we will increase the salary of soldiers, and we will be able to spend more money on technical improvements in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-19-134	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to Congressman István Apáti for two minutes, Jobbik, to be precise, one minute one second.
u2014-11-19-135	Dear Secretary of State Kontra, I solemnly announce that you took the bait a few minutes ago. I knew in advance that you would answer my corruption point, so with all due respect, I would ask you to give me the opportunity to have a personal meeting, and I would be able to provide you with substantial information. Because the free movement of known criminals in certain settlements, whether drug addicts, drug dealers or other criminals, is likely to be the result of two things: either corruption or the police's misguided, disproportionate vamper policy or a mixture of the two. This, of course, gives me more specific knowledge, so I intend to contact you on this matter. You can start working together, and I will be interested to know what the results of these procedures may be in a year and a half projection or exit, because they do not require traditional, but special tools, so I hope that there will be a meaningful turnaround in my immediate environment or in several parts of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2014-11-19-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fighting corruption is an essential condition for strong and effective law enforcement. The government believes that there is zero tolerance to corruption, and therefore any announcement, any information that you have in your possession, please make available to the competent authorities the necessary steps and the necessary investigations to that end. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr László Szakács, MSZP. [[19.20]]
u2014-11-19-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have heard and heard a lot about the budget, and I have welcomed almost everyone on public work, during our parliamentary debate on public work; I will not refer back to the fact that from 2008 to 2010, what you said about the work programme. We will, of course, be able to discuss them more or less later in the debate. But there's so much we've heard. The year of bank accountability will be the next budget. The HUF 1000 billion you're talking about will not appear in the budget; it's probably not in this budget. We have also heard that the budget for stability and development will be the budget for 2015, and we have just heard from Minister Hende where we are going in 5 and 10 years. There is no moderate economic research institute that has not started an analysis of this fiscal law by not having a government concept, the government has no medium-term vision, they have no idea what will happen within 3-5 years, and they are even likely to miss the fact that the volume growth of the early 2014 spring, actually positive, but independent processes has been re-indexed to the second semester, and they are also re-indexing it to the following year. I believe that this is too many uncertainty factors with which a transparent, enforceable and good budget could have been made. You finance the Hungarian budget more expensively, but obviously with much less constraints, which is therefore very vulnerable. If I just think of the forint exchange rate, the increase in the yield on the sovereign debt market, its exchange rate, or even the additional expenditure on the interest rate channel, this budget is simply not prepared, and there could be a question for the government: how do you think that the early years of implementation of the budget were long-term or temporary? Once again, there is no moderate economic research institute that does not say that these were temporary, and now there will be a slowing down. What you are so proud of is the economic growth you have achieved. However, we managed to bring the base so low in the year 2012-2013 before it, that it really was only uphill from there. But the fact that GDP increases 1 percent in 3 years, and it also has the greatest agricultural performance of last year, and the performance of the automotive industry, I think that only increases uncertainty factor. Why? Is it because if the agricultural sector accidentally recovers, the weather will be less favourable? That can't be influenced by even two thirds, I'm absolutely sure? Then we have to consider that the automotive industry cannot produce more. So, the car companies? which they are proud of, though it is true that it was discussed and brought to our country by the previous governments? They still produce three shifts a week, that's all they can do unless the workers have lunch. There's nothing more to grow than that. Growth credit: compared to the expected growth of 0.9 per cent of GDP? Fact? It is around 0.3 percent that we do not bury SMEs, we want them to continue to support this sector, but yet, now it will not be 0.3 percent, because there is no growth credit 3, it was only 1-2, and the third is no longer in it. This budget is now not transparent, it does not stand the challenge of transparency, because chapter titles are not being opened, most likely because so many amendments can be saved later, there is no need to bring back eight times as much as the 2013 budget. Here, there is simply no indication of the expected figures for 2014, no comparative data, and only the 2013 figures can be compared with the figures in this budget, even though a month more time was available to present the 2014 fact data at least in advance. Growth risks are not foreseen for even three years. You want me to mention some data? but, of course, at a later stage of the debate, chapter debates and chapter data can be included - there is a claim that GDP will be nominally HUF 500 billion less, then none of the numbers will be true, obviously taking extreme account of the risk factors that I said earlier. You overdesigned VAT revenue, quite simply, most likely, not so much. This could be the only case if prices continue to rise at this level. The state spends most of it on its own. This budget, in proportion to GDP, of course with appropriate corrections, spends 48.3% of the total national assets produced, but its structure is terrible because the state spends on itself: Parliament, ministries, some of the actors of the public administration. We heard here that bureaucracy will be reduced. No, bureaucracy will increase, bureaucracy will expand and be more expensive; but we will not spend any more on health care, we will not spend any more on education, we will cut the family support system badly, and we will cut the social support system even worse. I believe that social cohesion will be further dismantled. This is your worldview. Is it your world view that we offer something to a middle class that we create, that we offer it a relatively lighter life, that they will not be very shaken by the high VAT burden or by the food security charge? I'll talk to you about that later? But those who have little should have nothing, but I ask the middle layer not to notice it. This is the worldview you offer, which, by the way, this budget certainly suggests. You plan to increase your income by 5.5 percent. There's a risk that I think you can't handle right now, because if you're just a little bit wrong and you're not going to grow by 5.5 percent, by just 4 percent, that's a $100 billion hole in the current budget. You are planning a HUF 169 billion sale, privatization income, which we do not know what will be sold for so much money at the moment. Today's press reports say that most of it, let's say, the airport has a similar price. I guess that's not what this is about, but we don't know what this is about. It's a completely uncertain, a risk item in which, say, you know? In connection with the previous ones? If they're only 1 percent wrong, we can see that we're talking about 260-270 billion forints here. Massive EU transfers helped implement this year's budget. We do not know whether this will be the case in the future, because even the State Audit Office says that sanctions, freezing of funds and suspension of subsidies will also have to be expected next year. These findings do not appear at any level in the current budget. I believe that this haste, this unplanned will lead to this budget, even if it is not too detailed, to be amended many times, and it will be very difficult for it to be implemented. Let's get down to one more thing, which is the food security fee. Gentlemen, this is acting like a tax. The fee is paid for by a service, even if it is provided by the State. They're going to increase it 60 times, but they won't be able to provide 60 times more. They collect 30 billion forints, although this does not appear during the Nebih budget, because it will manage the same amount as last year, but even if all veterinarians and labs were admitted, they would not be able to spend this 30 billion forints, because it is simply intended for something else; it is collected as a tax, it acts as a tax, there is no service against it that the state will perform to the participants and towards the paying agents. In the tax system, you have a duality. In Saya, you commend, to the heavens, the linear approach, the one-key tax system, where you see that if you make 100 grand, you have 84 thousand in your pockets for those who make one million, you have 840,000 in your pocket. It does not offer the same quality of life and not the same opportunities in Sja for people who have been put in the centre many times but only in communication; it does not help them. [[19.30]] However, if it is in your interest, then you are very happy to form a broadband tax system. It is also true that here they are not paying attention to how the bands should develop and how much more they pay, but are looking for exceptions there. This is also the system of additional special taxes and additional taxes, which are also known as food safety charges, or which are also known as soap taxes. That's what this budget says. It's a hasty budget that will continue to tear society apart and has very, very many risk factors. I don't know why it took so long. As early as June 13, they wanted to give the framework numbers, and now they didn't make it even in October, and we hope that they won't bring in a 160-page amendment in two days at 3:00 a.m., but they will be able to explain why they had to do this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-19-140	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-11-19-141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to return briefly to the words of Zoltán Demeter. He said they were stealing, they were cheating, they were lying, he did it like we were saying it. That didn't come out of our mouths, and then it's worth looking at the record just because he doesn't lie like he said. I wouldn't accuse Secretary Kontra if I were you, colleague Demeter. On the other hand, Secretary of State Kontra said that when I wrote out the facts, it was a lie. And you told me that whoever says that lives like that. But I wouldn't accuse him if I were you. However, is there something you said briefly about two things: there was no difference between public wages and aid? You said it yourself. Then I want you to know clearly that the minimum public wage that was in the pocket was 60 200 HUF, and the minimum benefit was 28 500 HUF. Well, if there's no difference between them, then? Be benevolent? You're wrong. I'm not saying you're lying. You're deliberately trying to mislead me. You're wrong. But if you're wrong, if you're deliberately trying to mislead others, then I shouldn't go on doing what you said; who says he lives like one, or how he says he does it, he lives the way he does. So, stealing, cheating, lying? That's what he started with. That's what I'm gonna finish the story with. You tell me, and I'll give you examples. Trafikconcession, Miskolc: 80 traficconcession, 20 by two Fidesz representatives and his family, two Fidesz representatives and his family, all over the city. You tell me, they steal, they cheat, they lie. I'll ask the questions. Really? Well, the facts might actually support that. Or land lease contracts; or agricultural VAT fraud; or the entire government around corruption. Congressman [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I wouldn't say anything if I were you, no, because we're running out of air. Thank you.
u2014-11-19-142	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2014-11-19-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I pressed the button about 3 to 3.5 hours ago, and since then I have been expecting to respond to some of the ideas, and I would like to start with them, because we have had a dialogue here in some cases with Fidesz MEPs who have not been here since then. First of all, the situation of small town mayors and salaries were mentioned. Here I was accused, Mr. Happy Congressman, of being like the LMP of four years ago, and all of a sudden, he's been snooping around. Well, that's why we should spend a little more time in Parliament to see the difference that you're talking about, because I think that now politically, ideologically, the Hungarian Liberal Party or DK is no one further away from us, but to do that, we should probably sit here right now and hear the reactions we're saying and the views we're taking in the LMP right now. But that's not gonna happen right now. I will therefore return to the fact that the settlement of the salaries of small-town mayors, which was also submitted by Mr Happy, as István Ikotity and I have submitted months ago, would also be a topic that would be good to settle in the budget, because it is really unacceptable to see a difference between the income of the representatives of the local government in the capital and the income of the mayor of a small-town. However, I am very, very disappointed by the opinion that the Prime Minister of Hungary, Mr Viktor Orbán and Prime Minister, said here the other day about Mr András Schiffer's question before the agenda that he simply said that these settlements under 2 thousand are not viable, that their autonomous management is not effective. The problem is that this is very, very consistent with the Gyurcsányi idea that the Gyurcsány government stated at the end of the 2000s that the village is a medieval remnant, not viable, not effective, and that the village should cease to exist. This Prime Minister's attitude is what we did not expect very, very much, because the two-thirds of what was given the mandate also said in part what Hungarian society did not agree with, what it should think differently, and now, unfortunately, this attitude is reflected in the budget that unfortunately we do not see the difference in these speeches. Both Mr Papcsák and Mr Happy responded to me for a two-minute period in which I opposed how funny government representatives are, who can only talk about whose public work programme was better or whose work was worse, and then there is an argument here about how much more public work is worth than the foundation of a work-based society, and how much better it is than the aid system, because there is nothing to do for aid and how much better it is. It is completely nonsense for me that pro-government politicians can think of these two: aid or community service. This is reflected in the budget. They cannot move away from the system of exiting the Hungarian society, while the majority of the society in the Hungarian countryside at the same time raises the demand for public work in the local authorities, and at the same time there is a shortage of labour in the SME sector. This means that this program, this approach, has failed. This means that the world of community service is very difficult to get through or there is no access to the world of work, and the economy cannot easily take over these people. It's not a good time! I do not claim that there are no municipalities where the public works programme is successful. I am not saying that it is not a good approach for public workers to give local healthy food production activities, I am not saying that there are no positive examples, but I am saying that, in general, this is a bankruptcy in employment, a bankruptcy in the country's economy, because the greater the social background of public work, the more the Hungarian society will break down and break up. I would also respond to what was said earlier. Here, with Mr Secretary of State, we had a little debate on how good it is to be a municipal debt consolidation, which you have said many times and which several government representatives have said, which everyone here really is living as an incredible success story, while I myself have been a member of a council council that has been constantly trying to manage over the past 25 years not to be indebted, to stretch beyond what your blanket has touched, and I think it is absolutely right to feel that we have been fooled by a small settlement, where we have done everything in order not to make irresponsible decisions. While the government has spent 1300 billion to achieve debt consolidation, it now spends 12.5 billion to reward well-owned municipalities. So this is the difference that is very, very difficult to accept. At the same time, it is obvious that part of the entire debt consolidation is a liability, not a liability. Obviously, there were several mayors and various bodies of representatives, but we could see that the amount of municipal loans exceeding 20 billion was present, not one or two. What have you done with all this now? They took the credit of the municipalities and made a national loan out of it, transferred the background of this to the Hungarian taxpayers. There were irresponsible farming authorities, and this loan, which they took, is being paid by Hungarian taxpayers, is being paid by society, with a society that would look forward to the development opportunities that would improve their lives. I'm still getting reactions. Mr Tamás László began his speech by saying his own fears, while the government was speaking the facts. This terrible thing is how we might see the same thing from different places. I have no intention of making a different statement, simply looking at it from a different perspective and looking at it differently. I am completely surprised at the attitudes that Member László also tells me how good he will be in the budget for the civilian sector, what incredible luck. It says that, compared to last year, the National Cooperation Fund will cost 5.5 billion instead of 3.5 billion, and how good it will be for civil society organisations. [[19.40]] Please, during the MSZP governments, I worked with Fidesz delegates in the National Civil Fund programme to prevent the MSZP government from reducing the amount of the National Civil Fund from 7.7 billion to 7. That was the worst we've achieved, and the MSZP gave the 7 billion to the green civilians in its worst year. And now it is reported as a success propaganda that funding for civil society organisations is increasing from 3.5 billion to 5.5. So this is the view of seeing the same things differently from a different situation. And now I would like to get to the point that I really asked for, because as an LMP politician, all the values that made me come to the LMP, and I was given the opportunity in Parliament, should also be present in the budget. Among these, I beg your pardon, there will be a number of things that are of minor interest to us, although we consider very important, and it was obviously our lead speaker who drew attention to the more important structural and approachary things. So excuse me for bringing up some of the things that are less important to you. The first thing I would like to mention is to facilitate the performance of nature and environmental tasks. We see very, very large shortcomings in this line, and we would very much like the government that claims that it is important for it to use natural resources in a sustainable way, for a work-based society, would actually use resources to protect these resources, to pay attention to the state of these resources, to use as an indicator how they change. Let me tell you a few things that I have tabled as an amendment to the budget, such as supporting the professional activities of environmental and nature conservation civil society organisations performing public tasks. Let me tell you that when green civilians may have spoken positively about the first Orbán Cabinet, it was also because in the last year of Minister Béla Turi-Kovács, he provided the green civilians with 1.2 billion forints of budgetary resources to carry out their public duties. The MSZP governments have reduced this almost year after year. The terrible thing is that Fidesz didn't bring the change, but left that level between 70 and 90 million, which is unworthy of the tasks these organizations perform. Among these, there are a multitude of organisations that bring hundreds of millions of billions of direct European Union funds to the country from which they pay Hungarian public charges, pay Hungarian VAT, and become Hungarian forints. These organisations have not been provided with the terms and conditions necessary for their operation for many years. Let me tell you that the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Wildlife Plants, commonly known as CITES, has not been a dedicated source for its current domestic tasks for years. Although the number of reconnaissances is constantly increasing, although the Internet is full of advertisements of this kind, the government does not directly devote any resources to this. This is an international commitment of the country to which it has not invested resources. In the same way, it can be said that the Ramsari Convention, which deals with the protection of wetlands, has also not been sourced for years, and that all Ramsari territories in Hungary, which are classified as of international importance, have not received funds to carry out their conservation tasks and maintain them. Speaking of international commitments with decades of failure by Hungarian governments, let me also talk about the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Rio Convention, which would serve to achieve alternative rural development efforts, efforts to promote the sustainable use of natural resources that create harmony between man and nature. Model programmes of this kind have had a very, very bitter fate in recent months and years. Let me mention the story of Kishantos, which has been among Parliament's walls several times, but there are many other similar initiatives in danger. After all, there hasn't been a source of this kind of ambition lately. Let me also say that the Framework Convention on Climate Change is also a convention announced by law in Hungary, and there has been no effort to implement it. The national adaptation strategy has been completed, but no effort has been made to achieve any of it. However, precisely the tasks of climate change, the need for public transport to be shielded as much as possible in the capital city, for example, to create more public watering facilities in agriculture, all of which would require increased resources and create opportunities in the lives of many people. And at that time I did not even mention the European Convention on Landscapes or the Convention on the Protection of the Carpathians, in which the Hungarian government also has commitments from which it does not implement anything. Let me mention another one among the agricultural and nature conservation tasks, which is also a decade-long failure of the Hungarian government. This is the cost of mitigating the economic damage caused by protected animal species. Practically now, when bears strike sheep in the county of Nógrád, or when fortunately an unprecedented quantity of wild geese cover autumn crops, every year there is a demand for compensation beyond the alert for the Hungarian farmers, so that, in addition to fulfilling our obligations under nature conservation agreements, Hungarian farmers may be given a little help. It is this package that I have tried to facilitate environmental and nature conservation tasks. It is a small part of these that is intended for non-governmental use, most of which are national park uses and could be used through FM by the department and its administrative bodies. I also feel that these tasks are particularly important because a number of national parks will face financial problems by withdrawing area payments, and such additional resources would provide an opportunity to resume their practical nature conservation tasks and complement their missing resources. The second group may have even less interest in them, but I must say, however, that this would be very, very important for a small group in the country. This is the implementation of the system of non-professional birth in Hungary; the implementation of the midwifery, from which the second Orbán Cabinet has adopted legislation, has not taken any steps to enable the Hungarian midwifery to start. Not only did the training not take place, but there was nothing in the two decades of failure to establish the reference institution for the house of birth, in order to at least try the practice applied in the Netherlands at nearly 50 percent of births; in order to make the effort to do so, to finally start in Hungary, the establishment of the non-professional birth system of the tradition that would actually create the framework for women's right to self-determination. In this case, in my proposal for a budgetary amendment, I proposed to pool funds for almost pennies compared to the total budget for the establishment of the national institution network and reference institution of the house of birth. In support of the additional training and awareness-raising of midwifery and midwifery, the development of the educational background for childbirth outside the institution, the financing of the preparation of pediatrics for neonatal care and the transfer of funds to prepare the protective women's network. This government has accepted the possibility of doing so in Hungary within a legal framework, and I believe that this government would have a duty to create a background for the opportunities and obligations arising from the legislation. In terms of total budget, let alone a stadium size, let alone a kilometer of motorways, this size of 1-2 billion could virtually carry it out. A little further to the birth is an amendment tabled in the social care system, and I would also like this to be supported by Members. I would therefore like to say that the number of premature births in Hungary is already around an epidemic level, and there are a lot of social care systems problems in this area. After all, it is now a proven fact that the malnutrition of prenatal women can contribute to premature births. The social care system that helps to provide mothers with a continuous meal, a healthy meal, I think could be linked to the government's population programme, as it should help women who are giving birth. It is also an old failure to set up a patient rights centre to build patient rights tasks, for which I have seen a small amount in the budget, which, however, does not seem sufficient to carry out national tasks, and we would therefore propose an increased amount. During today, we have discussed the research and prevention of the proportion, extent and extent of diseases of ragweed and other allergies. We find it almost unworthy that while Hungarian taxpayers were planning more than HUF 1 billion for this purpose, say, in 2009, the current budget is set at HUF 46 million. This is very, very low and very, very little to be aware of the facts that would be necessary to address the problem. [[19.50]] As regards the recent amendment of Btk. tabled and accepted by Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, we said that Btk. Amendment and tightening up does not, in itself, mean greater detection of domestic violence, rape or crimes committed at the expense of minors, and does not mean preventing them. In our view, this does not have the deterrent effect, which would make a significant contribution to prevention, but in Western Europe there are many examples of how much exploration can be helped with various infrastructure developments, special interrogation rooms, female police officers or interrogation officers, with a much more empathetic background. It is very, very important that there should be more than just a visionary effort in this regard than the Btk. Indeed, the government should use resources to detect as much as possible both rape and domestic violence and crimes at the expense of minors, but to prevent them even more. And while we are already here in part in social care and in these tasks, it should also be mentioned that the development of family temporary homes should also be provided with as much resources as possible, since there is a very serious failure of the government. Then I would like to move on to some local needs and local needs, which are very, very important to talk about. It is important that we talk about this structurally, because it really seems that the government has a budget, but the country does not, because a significant part of the country's population only meets the budget directly in relation to tax payments, and their assets reach little or no. It is very, very important that programs and developments from the Hungarian government budget can serve to improve the quality of life of people and make people's lives better throughout the Hungarian countryside. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] First of all, I would like to announce that we would like to fund a Wenckheim programme in Békés County in connection with the proposal for a resolution announced in the Alföld ad hoc committee announced this week on Monday. A significant part of the representatives of the county of Békés knows that the Wenckheim family was a major owner and aristocrat family in the county's history, and that many of its built cultural heritage survived throughout the county. These buildings, these castles, these mansions were not built as the structures of today's times, not for twenty years, for fifty years, but for a hundred years of the future, but for a large part of them with a significantly vomited fate, on the brink of collapse, and it would be very, very important for the local settlements to get these renovated, to use them for community purposes, to serve economic development purposes, but to preserve these castles and mansions for future generations. In particular, in the framework of this programme, we would like to see Okány, Zsadány, Sarkadkeresztúr, Biharugra in Eastern Békés county on the connecting roads? Are we talking four-digit trips? at last turn the source, because what is happening in the development of the road network is completely unworthy of the Hungarian countryside, while we are talking about the M4 and roads the need for which could be well debated, while keeping the entire rural population away from the infrastructure that is now only available in county seats. It would be a matter of life to re-construct rural small settlement connections. We have the same proposal for the southern part of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, where roads in the area of Kisújszállás, Armenian and Armory, in the area of the large-scale armed area, in the area of the road connecting to Túrkeve-Kuncsor have fallen to such a extent as to endanger the safety of transport. The Hungarian governments had a very, very flawed rural development strategy, which did not try to keep people in place, but created jobs in a small region, at almost one development point in each region, so it would be even more necessary to ensure the mobilisation of the rural population and access to work. It is totally unfair for the rural population to have virtually no access to the county seat and to use basic services. While the capital is enriched with Ronald Reagan statues and Columbo statues, there is also a lack of basic infrastructure in rural areas. I could also say from the Hortobágy region of Hajdú-Bihar county, from the bordering parts of Szolnok county, from Nagyiván and Nádudvar, that the roads are in the same condition, so we would like to achieve a significant small-town road network development programme here as well. The settlements I have spoken of have, without exception, a representative of the Fidesz Parliament, without exception, you, the governing party, have been given confidence, and I therefore ask with respect those concerned to try to support these development programmes as far as possible. Let me tell you that I am very pleased with the government's efforts from 2011 to develop farms, but the amount that the government has devoted to this seems completely unworthy. The source we've had so far hasn't been enough. Obviously, we agree on the objectives, and as an opposition representative, I can only strengthen the government's efforts in this regard, but it is completely inadequate in its instrumental and conditional system that the government intends to do so. We are asking the government to devote significantly more resources to the farm programme. We also tabled amendments in this regard. During today's two-minute speeches, while Mr.Hungarian referred to the land covered by pocket contracts and to a number of other land anomalies, it was interesting that we received it in response, the Land Traffic Act gives the State the opportunity to use pre-emptive rights, but we do not find the necessary budgetary resources in the FM budget very much. We see what is targeted at the possibility of expropriation in nature conservation areas, but at the same time we do not see what it can buy in large amounts, say, with a Benetton family or anything like that. How do you want to live with the pre-emptive right if you don't use your budget to fund it? How do you intend to resolve this? All these tasks would create a complex opportunity for the country to finally have a budget that is much closer to the people and gives rural people the opportunity to benefit from the resources that Hungary produces overall. We ask the pro-government representatives not to reject them simply because they come from the opposition side, but we ask them to consider it, because they are well-intentioned and are trying to improve your budget as a constructive proposal. In closing, let me read two professional articles, and let me share them with you. The first is a general opinion on the government's environmental policy approach from the budget. The draft budget for 2015 preserves the shameful situation the Orbán government has created in the protection of the environment and nature of the state. Perhaps this is the area where the governor Fidesz, with a two-thirds majority, tricked the electorate the worst. In 2010, Viktor Orbán promised that although the independence of the nature reserve would cease, this does not mean a reduction in the government weight of the green sector. Since then, however, restrictions, lockdowns, cuts, meaningless restructurings and political appointments without minimal professionalism have hit each other. In Fidesz's electoral and government programme, there was still a green economy development promise package every year for the renovation of 10 percent of the housing stock with 80 000 jobs, green procurement, green bank, but now the adoption of the fifth budget in which this election promise has no aftereffects, with little intention of achieving it. An eloquent example of this irresponsibleness and neglect is the deliberate under-financing of activities related to particulate matter pollution. Contamination of the particulate matter causes the premature death of some 11,000 people each year, and on average, these people lose more than 10 years of their lives because of these particulate matter concentrations. The situation of our country among the European countries is one of the worst in this area. However, this can only be the tip of the iceberg, the number of respiratory, cardiovascular, cancer and other diseases due to air pollution can be hundreds of thousands. The case is subject to infringement proceedings against Hungary due to the sabotage of environmental health standards. Our generous government has never regretted the billions, if it was, say, the construction of a new stadium or the business ideas of the Prime Minister's circle of friends, but it is only able to devote 54 million forints to protecting the health of the Hungarian population living in polluted air. This is unworthy of Hungarian citizens, and we ask for a remedy. [[20.00]] Land-based subsidies were withdrawn from national parks and thus deprived of 50-60 percent of their revenues. According to the written promises of Minister Sándor Fazekas, they will be compensated from the budget, but there is not a single penny in the draft submitted for this purpose. We have proposed to replace this failure, including complementing the funding of national parks. I informed the Minister earlier on a written question, and there we received this written promise that it will be replaced, which is now without a trace in the budget. At the same time, there are goals to which the government would make an incomprehensible sacrifice. Support for waste management is increasing by 30%, from 9 billion to 12 billion. The reason why this trend seems to be worrying is that there is a high chance that this should be used to help very, very vulnerable and close to bankruptcy public service providers, since the reduction of the rent has had such an additional effect that a very high percentage of public service providers have caused their financial impossibility. More than HUF 28 billion is intended for the Paks expansion, while there is no feasibility agreement on the investment, so it is not even possible to know how much Rosatom has undertaken the planned two new blo whether or not the EU allows the investment at all. It's probably going a little ahead of the government, but we know that the fidesz clientship is very keen to start spending the billions of atoms. These opportunities, such atomic billions and stadiums create the basis for us to have the opportunity to present this professional budget-altering package, which creates the opportunity to dream about a few things. Was one of those options technically? What we've been talking about, and we've been talking about it more than once today? The government has promised the Hungarian voters, and the Prime Minister has also said in his speeches that the complete restructuring of the Hungarian ownership structure is expected. He promised that the proportion of small and medium estates would be 20:80, and the government will do everything in this case. At the moment, how you want to do this is not very visible and from what sources. The available support options are insufficient to increase the weight of small and medium-sized family estates compared to large estates; they are also insufficient to create a sustainable agricultural structure and to develop regional self-sufficiency. I have already mentioned the farm development programme announced in 2011, to which only HUF 1.4 billion will be available next year. The Fidesz government therefore intends to re-launch traditional farm farming from HUF 1.4 billion a year and thus expand the local sales potential of 300 thousand farm people. Let me say about this amount that this amount is exactly what companies belonging to Sándor Csányi's interest are getting for a programme of economic development and job creation, the creation of a slaughterhouse that will destroy eight to ten others, and the net job creation rate is not noticeable. In retrospect: the Fidesz government has spent only HUF 6 billion in the last three years on the farms to keep the population, and this programme should help our 300 thousand fellow countrymen to survive, while Csányi-Nyerges-Leisztinger has received more support from the common agricultural register in the last few years, HUF 10.4 billion in a single year. What we would now like to see is that this budget is about what it should be about: all these resources, the government budget, the government set-up, how it can serve people's interests. The importance of a government's budget is broadly indicative of its values; it suggests what are the aspects that determine its decisions and what are the aspects on which it defines its governance strategy. From this budget, which is now ahead of us, what is most visible is that it is the Hungarian rural population, rural areas and the population, which represents almost 80 percent of Hungary, which is not important, what is incidental is what does not deserve any substantial resources. We have made efforts to change this approach with these amendments, which we would therefore respectfully ask you to accept and support. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-19-144	Thank you very much, fellow Member. Two-minute comment, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, from the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sad to see that Csaba Hende, Minister of Defence, came and told me a five-minute monologue, and then he left, and did not wait for the reactions; and I am very pleased that Tamás Vargha is here as Secretary of State, listening to the opinions on defence. This attitude of the Minister of Defence to present a success story in five minutes, I think it is a disgrace, and this shows how the government and the defence political leadership have managed the Hungarian Defence Forces for the past four years. The Minister mentioned excellent performance. Only one excellent performance can be said, and this is the performance of our soldiers; because they are highly skilled, they work well, and they provide a very high level of performance, despite the situation that bad political decisions have put them in for years. On the other hand, there is a shameful activity that will bring down the Hungarian Defence Forces, and we have seen continuous destruction over the past few years. Csaba Hende was very proud of him, as I heard, that he managed to increase the defence budget here with HUF 5.7 billion state aid. So, after the total annual budget of about HUF 200-250 billion has been deprived of the defence in the last four years, I think you cannot be proud of this HUF 5.7 billion. Did he mention the socialist governments, but would I have asked him if he had stayed here to see the development programmes he listed? radios, car procurement programme [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] ? Do you not remember where they started, because these were started by socialist governments? And I think the wage increase? Excuse me, and thank you for your patience? and it was the minimum they could now give to the stock, and it is very commendable that they are even given such a raise.
u2014-11-19-146	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A proper speech will come from the group of the MSZP, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to put it all in order, so much has been said about community service today. Dear pro-government politicians! In 2010, you promised a million new market-based jobs, not squandering public work! This shows that they can only come up with public work here in the 2015 budget that their economic policies have failed. I am very sorry that Congressman Demeter did not stay in the room, because I would like to respond to one thought when he brought textbook provision to a success story. Dear fellow Members, The textbook supply has been destroyed over the past two years, and we've lived as parents for two scandalous years that we haven't had one in 24 years! He brought up the free textbooks. I would like to say, as a child of three school-age children, that we passed this year by receiving the textbook, and after the first use, we had to buy it for five thousand forints, because we had to throw it out in the trash. Well, that's all there is to it. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I just wanted to respond. It is very important that, when you are presenting this budget as a success story, I would like to ask why you still do not publish the poverty figures that are required to be published in the HCSO in September. It is the end of November, and it has not been published to this day; I think there is a very, very serious reason for this. I would like to speak to the President again because he described this budget as a family budget and a lot of people brought up families in the budget. We, when we make the budget at home in the family, always the child first. Now, this budget is about everything but the child and not the family. I would like to list a few items for why I say this: housing support minus 15 billion, National Family and Social Policy Fund 68 billion minus, family allowances 24 billion minus, retirement benefits minus 41 billion, income replacement and additional social support minus 5 billion, and other items could be classified. But if you don't believe us, two days ago, a very serious NGO was invited on the Internet, and if you don't hear what the opposition representatives have to say, let me read you this call. This is the manifesto of the Hungarian Anti-Poor Network, titled "We Will Die Starving!" This manifesto was prepared for the 2015 budget. [[20.10]] A man living in poverty cried out when his family's future came up. He didn't just express his own fear. What is Hungary's balance sheet in 2014? 3.3 million poverty, growing and deepening exclusion, child poverty. And all this has been said many times and many times! But the figures have become zero. In this country, the government doesn't hear or want to hear the words of millions. He's at war against the poor, the slippers, the giving up hope, he's looking for a scapegoat, and he finds them in the outcasts because he thinks they're weak. In Hungary, however, people living in poverty and poor people, those struggling for a living, have long been not a minority. Millions and millions! Among them are the people who have been in poverty for generations, who have never seen the possibility of an eruption around them. Masses of children who grow up in wet homes without enough food and whose families can never send to college. Young beginners who can barely find a job, even though they are told to save money and create the conditions of self - care because they will never have a pension. Because of their family and self-reservation, they are forced to go abroad, who feel that they will never have any hope at home. Years, decades in orbit, thousands and thousands of them do not earn enough to make a living, and if they lose their jobs, they may never find a new job. Old people who work their whole lives, pensioners who have no prospect of earning a decent living. What are the answers to the difficulties from those who represent the inhabitants of Hungary, what do we owe to the government? Let's just mention a few. Destroying the education system, the basis of the social eruption. One-key tax, 500 billion less obligation up there, 500 billion more burden down there. Remedies, family tax incentives that benefit those who already have more. It is a public work programme called forced labour for hunger, from which there is no way out into the open labour market. A systematic reduction in the support of job seekers. The gradual abolition of aid, which has so far been legal and barely sustaining the existence of families and children. The government's further ideas for the misery of poor people are to tie family allowances to work. More taxes, even for food. Attaching health care to screening. 10 percent less money for social purposes, for example, for children. And it's all presented to us with immense arrogance. People who think you can make a living on 47,000 forints a month, while they are looking for multiples of them every week. People who do not see rural poverty, do not care about exclusion, even though they do not have to leave Budapest to encounter poverty and segregation. Those who refer to the country's economic situation and urge patience, but never delay their own benefits. We don't wait any longer. We demand a review of the 2015 budget as follows. Ensure adequate resources for social, educational, health and cultural areas. They involve stakeholders, people living in poverty, working poor, civil society organisations, social policy experts, bodies of interest and social actors in the distribution of social resources. Only on the basis of consensus with them should they decide on the use of common money. Provide guarantees that resources will be spent solely for the purposes for which they are authorised by the consensus decision. We want to live in a country that is not just the faith of a handful of groups that accumulate power and wealth for themselves, but the home of all Hungarian people living here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Listen to these people's words, that's all I'm asking you to do. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, István Nagy State Secretary asked for the floor. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that, according to the regulations of the House, there is no limit to his ability to speak. That's because he checked in for two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sallai R. Benedek raised a few questions concerning agricultural purses earlier, and I would like to answer a few of them so that they do not remain unanswered and do not just stay in the air. The government's primary objective is to strengthen the income-generating and competitiveness of the agricultural sector, particularly those of high added value in rural employment, such as livestock farming or gardening, and thus to improve the population-preservation capacity of the countryside. The draft budget law before this House provides full budgetary support for these objectives. Further expansion of the budget for programmes funded by the national budget and opening up new state aid opportunities are a priority for agricultural holdings, with the necessary resources included in the draft. In the case of grants financed from the national budget, there is a significant increase compared to 2014. In the chapter of the FM, the appropriation of current expenditure and income subsidies, on which several outstanding schemes for agricultural production are supported, is of paramount importance. This is where the government is implemented! More jobs in agriculture! The main actions of the programme are also taken. Forint 77.7 bn in the 2015 budget, compared to HUF 49.2 bn in 2014. In the framework of the programme, the portfolio will spend some HUF 36 billion from the 2015 budget on transitional national support in 2014, which would have been about HUF 20 billion more than the possibility without the programme. Thanks to this additional resource, the livestock sector will receive the maximum possible support. The portfolio pays particular attention to sectors that do not receive direct EU support and therefore seeks to provide the necessary assistance to the poultry and pig sector through national support schemes. The most effective way to do this is to maintain a system of animal welfare aid for farmers directly. One of the significant results of the 2015 budget is to enable the publication of the HUF 4 billion annual poultry welfare aid in 2007. The additional resources are expected to fully meet the legitimate needs of the sector. Animal welfare subsidies also play a prominent role in the pig sector. The 2007 grant, which increased by more than 40 percent, was announced in 2015 with HUF 8.5 billion compared to the 2010 framework. In addition, as of 2015, the portfolio plans to introduce the sow welfare scheme as a new measure, which is expected to amount to HUF 8.6 billion per year. In addition to the current HUF 10.5 billion framework for the prevention and control of certain diseases and the removal and disposal of animal carcasses, an additional HUF 1.6 billion could be used in 2015. Support for patrols in the field will also be financed from the appropriations for current expenditure and income support. As you know, the number of agricultural thefts and damages in agricultural areas has been a major problem in recent years, especially during harvests. In order to encourage local authorities to set up and operate a field watch, the portfolio increased the amount of aid that could be claimed and allocated HUF 726 million for this purpose by 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings, meetings of experts, meetings, meetings of experts and other experts. The system started in 2012 and is becoming more and more popular year after year. In 2002? Living in an insurance jargon? In 2013, the number of contracted sub-modernities exceeded 7700 and the stock premium reached HUF 4 billion. In 2014, nearly 13 thousand sub-models were concluded, with a stock price of nearly HUF 5.7 billion. [[20.20]] In order to finance the livestock sector, appropriate preferential credit schemes with public involvement are also available. The government offers favourable borrowing opportunities to those operating in the sector through the agri-development credit programme, the Agrarian Széchenyi card overdraft, the food working capital loan scheme and the MFB agricultural floating asset loan scheme. In order to facilitate lending to the SME sector, the portfolio also intends to maintain budgetary support for guarantee premiums. In 2015, the pig strategy programme will continue with a budget of 1.4 billion, with the aim of providing priority support for breeding, production and integration programmes and research and development programmes, in particular for mangalica and Hungarian porcine species, as well as product development, product certification, quality assurance and market delivery, technical development of breeding and manufacturing. The budget of HUF 4.3 billion for the national agricultural compensation appropriation ensures a mandatory public contribution to farmers' payments. The new agricultural compensation scheme has enabled producers to claim compensation for damage not previously covered and to establish a significantly larger compensation fund compared to the previous compensation scheme. As in this year, the available resources are expected to allow full payment of claims for compensation in 2015. It should be mentioned here that the electronicisation of the system for farmers has been implemented as a result of a significant development from 2015 onwards, and we are also planning a number of substantial changes which will further increase the income security of the farmers concerned. In view of the government's objective of ending the undivided joint ownership in the foreseeable future, in 2015 the amount that can be used for this purpose will increase from HUF 2 billion to HUF 3 billion. In addition, the farm development programme, mentioned by the Member, which has become one of the most representative of the objectives of the portfolio over the years, is outstanding and should be highlighted. The aim of the programme is to strengthen the middle class of agriculture based on family farms, to strengthen the role of small livestock farming, to increase the role of self-sufficient farming in local food, and to expand the farm and farmland programmes. In 2015 HUF 1.4 billion is available for the continuation of the programme. I'm warning you, because there was no greater demand. If there are higher needs in this, it is possible to plan it into the budget. On the basis of the available and callable tenders, the portfolio was based on the determination of this amount. There is also an increase in EU co-financing grants. We have raised the national part of the highly popular school fruit scheme. In 2015, HUF 1.7 billion is available to supply healthy products to students from 1-6th grade of primary school. While in 2009-2010 the students of 1608 schools were provided with 278 thousand 1-4th grade students, 2124 schools and 552 thousand 1-6th grade children, i.e. about 95 percent of the target group, receive an average of three portions of fruit, vegetables and juice per week for 29 weeks. In 2015 the also popular. Drink milk will continue! It is also supported by a programme, which will increase from HUF 1.7 billion to HUF 2.3 billion. Thanks to the measures taken in recent years, the number of beneficiaries has increased sharply, while in 2009 150 to 180 thousand children have been provided, while in 2014 more than 420 thousand children receive dairy products on a daily basis, and this number is expected to continue to increase in 2015. The portfolio supports producer groups and producer cooperatives operating in the fruit and vegetables sector by HUF 2.9 billion in 2015, which is perhaps the most important financial instrument for the implementation of sectoral cooperation and integration. Of this amount, which is about HUF 300 million more than this year, we support the operating costs and investments of producer groups. Currently there are 29 fruit and vegetable producer groups. Support for fruit and vegetable production organisations - currently 51? they may take the form of national support supplementing their operational base. As is well known to you, rural development subsidies have become the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office after the government's restructuring, but the measures of the runway, old and new rural development programmes support the Hungarian agriculture with a further HUF 302.4 billion, with domestic and EU co-financing. This amount exceeds the amount available in 2014 by HUF 50.4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the structural development of the sector, including investments in food processing, the start-up of young farmers or the social and economic catching-up of our rural areas. In the case of aid directly affected by the EU, which is not included in the budget of the portfolio, area and other direct aid is expected to be paid for HUF 389.6 billion in 2015, of which HUF 25.3 billion is market support, while area aid amounts to HUF 364.3 billion. The total amount available to the FM chapter in the 2015 budget is due to the already mentioned government restructuring from HUF 423.7 billion to HUF 212.3 billion. The financial financing of the rural development programme and the budgetary resources needed to finance the infrastructure related to the implementation of the measures were already planned in the Prime Minister's Office chapter in 2015, so that the two chapters together lead to a significant increase in resources for the sector. I am convinced that the budget presented by the FM and the Prime Minister's Office, supplemented by the resources from the European Union, will make agriculture an absolute winner in 2015 from a financial point of view. I very much hope, my fellow Member, that all the programmes I have presented will convince you that the country is of utmost importance to the Government of Hungary, and that the survival of people living in the countryside and their healthy lifestyle and access to work are absolute priorities. I very much hope that by speaking to you, I have been able to reassure you of your questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-19-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, until the time frame remains.
u2014-11-19-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the meantime, I dropped this thing's clip, and I apologize, so I'm gonna have to take this. Mr Secretary, thank you very much for your reply. Thank your colleagues very much that they were able to write you the answers here, or they knew in advance what I was going to ask. So it was definitely a brilliant solution. Let me just say, for the sake of fact, that Mr Secretary of State has, however, snuggled the resources of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund into the readings with a naughty solution. So he has now reported not only on the government budget, but also on what EU funds will finance. In other respects, it is clear that FM's costs are reduced by 15 percent compared to last year. However, I must say that, of course, I was not talking about the ones for which there is a source, but about those for which there is no source. I'll be really calm when I do. You told me, for example, the pig program. I will rest assured that sheep keepers affected by extensive livestock farming will also be helped if the opportunities for cattle farming are added, if there are opportunities for fish farmers and greater support will be considered. So it's not all I've focused on, because there's enough of you to talk about what's inside. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The budget is for me about man, about how and how to create a better situation for people. For people and children, to avoid hunger, not to face the fact that one third of children in Hungary are 33-35 percent? variable in the relevant period? It's practically starved to face. You know, if we look at the last four to five years and divide up the annual budget period, look at what happened, then we can see that by far the vast majority of society has come out of these 4 to 5 years worse than you have said in the last few years. The public servant lost a third of his salary in purchasing power. The minimum wage man lost 10 thousand forints in purchasing power. [[20.30]] The civil servant has not received an increase in his civil servant's basic salary for five years, but there is much else to discuss. I would like to add one more characteristic figure: the minimum wage and the minimum wage net? Is that what people put in their pockets? the scissors kept opening. This gap was so large that the difference in 2010 doubled to a difference of HUF 36,000. This is unacceptable. It shows that for you, it's not the man in the focus. You can talk about this, you can say Minister Varga, standing up from the pulpit, that families, you can say that jobs, you can say that economic development, and that's not what the story is about. This is not the story, because on the stage of employment policy, there is practically only one tangible factor: public employment, in which people are practically taken out of the status of the unemployed, people are placed in the status of employees, while tax forints, those that would serve to strengthen society, unfortunately they cannot produce through it. That's not what you promised. You have not promised much, a million new jobs in the economy, not elsewhere, in the economy, that is what you have promised, nothing has been done, there is no growth in the competitive sector. You have said that there will be economic development, in the last three years this rate has been 1 per cent in relation to three years, although there was an artist, a magician, in the person of Matolcsy, who promised everything, but did nothing of it. You promised me that in two weeks there would be order, Deputy Secretary of State Kontra, Minister Pintér Ozdon turned around two weeks after the elections, I suppose that was the ordering, and from then on it became order. In the meantime, crime statistics are no longer being published, I believe, I suspect, not because the results are as good as you said, but simply because it is such a situation that they do not wish to disclose them. But let me tell you a few more things about public employment, I think it's necessary. I think it's something that can't be avoided, because a lot of people don't have other options. But it would be your job and your responsibility to bring these people into existence real, value-creating work, also because of their self-esteem, and to make it easier for them to work in the open labour market. And, you know, your job and duty would be to keep the salary of the public servant from being doubled, not to take away one third of your salary by two thirds, not to keep it on a level, but to increase it. It would have been enough for you if these people had lived on 47,000 forints and a little goat had been led there with the mushrooms, and then the story would have been okay. It's a shame that you have so much in common with the public, that you're vulnerable. You consider them to be the basis of statistical factors, because then you can say with them that unemployment is not 11 percent, it is only 8 percent. It's manipulation! And I would add that these people do their work in a workable and hygienicly vulnerable way, and, in terms of moving towards an open labour market, they have no chance of looking for work, because if they work or work, they cannot earn a job. So this could and should find a transition, how and how it can be done, so that it is good for everyone. I would like to add that, in addition to all this, social expenditure is falling. Repetition: the family allowance in 2015 with HUF 13 billion, HUF 6.5 billion, and the pre-age benefits with HUF 36 000 million? December 31, 2014, you know, you can act on these formats. Less is spent on the pension, with GDP and 9.1 percent of gross domestic product compared to the current 9.3. Contributions to social security funds will be reduced and municipalities will also receive less money. Congressman Kontra, Mr Secretary, these are not lies, these are facts. These are facts, hard facts. It is also a fact that the resources allocated to active employment policy in the National Employment Fund are falling. It is also a fact that, of course, the money spent on operating and maintaining the system will increase. It is also a fact that the funds collected from the VET contribution, which you take, are lost, are also increased. For example, it grows by 13 500 million forints, which you take from businesses instead of helping them. There are many, many things to mention. One word, as a hundred, growing poverty, is unfortunately faced with declining wages and stagnating employment in the vast majority of people; public employment? I'm not gonna tell you the rest of it. With a weak forint, a huge burden that people face, with a resounding desire for investment, and thus, obviously, with employment opportunities trapped, denied, distorted statistics? That's what we're looking at. Negative redistribution, reduction of social expenditure, virtually increasing tax burden, consumption tax charges at HUF 158 000 million, or various motor vehicle taxes affecting the population, with HUF 101 000 million for many others. I'm not going on because my time is up, and I'd like to say that this budget is not about people. We're gonna file amendments about them, and I'm gonna ask you to support all of this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-19-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Shegmanné Nemes Sára wishes to comment. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2014-11-19-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I do not wish to comment on the previous solo, but on the MSZP representative who left along the way. It is not my duty to defend Minister Hende, but this government is such that ministers are working here, and indeed, I think they have noticed that the government, on the other hand, has been embarrassingly obsessed to always be a representative of every wallet during the negotiations on the current budget, just in order to listen to everyone's opinion. I believe that if Minister can't attend, then his secretary-general can represent the wallet at least as well. I have two brief clarifications for the MSZP Member who spoke to the wealth chapter and the budget. One is the question of 1,000 billion. He's making 1,000 billion in the budget. Well, that's the difference between us, because this 1000 billion is not in the budget, because when banks are accounted for, this 1000 billion will be repaid by the banks to foreign exchange lenders. So we are not taking away the 1000 billion from taxpayers, but the taxpayers will get it back from the banks. I just wanted to say this for the record. And the other is 165 billion of the wealth chapter. 165 billion, which are included in other assets, may be income from the sale of movable property, property and property rights, but can only be made and exclusively under the rules of the national property law. Congressman, you're looking at the sale of the airport. I regret to announce that it has already been abducted by social governments, because for 465 billion, Budapest Airport has been given to investors for 70 years, creating a minimum chance for the government to get it back. This budget is only and specifically about the sale of assets that are permitted by the national property law. So in this budget, there will be no airport sales, no Sukoro land sales, no real estate sales in Moscow. The sale of real estate or the exploitation of property belonging to two-thirds of Parliament's mandate may only take place. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-19-156	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. I don't see any contact. The general debate will be adjourned and resumed from 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. [[This is Béla Glattfelder.]] Did Secretary Glattfelder want you? It's closed, Mr. Secretary. Press the push-button. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech with the title III., the losers of the government's unpredictable tax and budgetary policy. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-19-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the first day of the budgetary debate has just been completed, I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to some of the amendments that I have not been able to say in the absence of time in the course of the day. I'd like to start with Győr. Two of my amendments concern Győr. Firstly, Győr transport is having a hard time following the economic development that is happening in the city. Sometimes chaotic conditions arise with regard to transport, so I suggested that the road development programme, which, by the way, had begun years earlier, should finally receive appropriate attention and be implemented. [[20.40]] There were serious government promises to this, and even in opposition you could demand this very loudly, among other things. Here's your chance, and I urge you to prove and make it happen. The other one, which concerns Győr, is related to the Petőfi Sándor Cultural House. Győr's management of monuments and property is infamous at all, because, if you think about it, the destruction of Dunakapu Square is one of the bright proofs of this in recent years, as this very serious monument, which is valuable at national level and even at European level, has practically been completely destroyed and an underground garage has been built in its place. This is what I want to avoid making a similar mistake, because the Petőfi Sándor Cultural House is not a monument, but it is a very important, symbolic location for the city, the people who live there insist on it, and they do not want the city's newest dilettante plans to be implemented in its place, but it can be renewed and XXI. He could welcome the citizens of the town of Győr under a century-old and decent conditions. I'm gonna have to get out of here in a few thoughts. From the road network of Rábaköz, I just have to say briefly that the region has the second worst network of roads in the country. I also know this from your numbers, and in practice I go there almost every day, so I can confirm that you are in a miserable state. While my fellow Members in Parliament often talk about Győr-Moson-Sopron County as a very fortunate region, as an example to follow; I am sure there are such cases, I would be able to list them, but unfortunately, the road network is far from one of them. I have to mention the case of the hospital in Csorna, where there has been some improvement, but the institution still has wings that actually soak after a larger rain. The Middle Ages are reminiscent of conditions. I would also like to transfer some money here, so I would also like to draw your attention to this amendment. Speaking of Csorna, I can't miss the thermal case. It is not that Jobbik wants to encourage the government to implement something more luxurious, but we do want to reach it, and I am also bringing up a previous promise from you that the thousands of people who visit the thermals in a rather miserable state can spend the warm days under more cultural conditions. It is not only about the inhabitants of Csorna and its surroundings, even many people from Austria pass through. Here, compared to thermal development, a rather low amount of quality improvement could be achieved. I'd like to move on to the next matter of the meat factory in Kapuvar. I have spoken in Parliament many times in writing and in word for the meat factory. The sad state that swept through the Hungarian meat industry in recent years could not escape Kapuvar. Unfortunately, the government didn't get the right help in time. The Kapuvar meat factory did not belong to the lucky meat plants that were rescued through municipal or state ownership, but it was allowed to be completely destroyed. To date, a number of workers have not yet received their rightful reward, not to mention that this traditional factory, which is a symbol of the Kapuvar, has been closed. Investors came in line, candidates, but with these reasons, they all ended up missing. I demand it very strongly, not for the first time now, to do something about this case. And it's not the kind of accomplice we've heard so far, colluding with virtually all those interested in destroying the meat factory. Many times, it seemed to me that they were really collaborating with these market forces at government level, while the two-thirds mandate would be precisely my belief that they would be able to remove these threats from this plant and from any other similar plant. Unfortunately, my five minutes are over, and I would like to argue for a number of my amendments. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-19-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the secretary of state if anyone wishes to respond to what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't want to. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: Letter to Zoltán Balog. You have the floor, Congresswoman, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-11-19-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must make it clear that I will continue to speak after tomorrow's agenda, because I cannot say it in five minutes. So let's add to the record that I., and I will continue. And from now on, since the government refuses to take the voice of the opposition into account, I will speak in the voice of the people. I'm gonna quote another letter that I didn't write. It's a citizen. My blood pressure's up a bit, so I thought I'd clear up a few things with you, dear Zoltán Balog. First of all, the kid, that doesn't come like the courier package. I can't control that right now, I'm successful, beautiful and young, the father's chosen individual is in full power, and he's looking for a fool, so tonight between 9:00 and 11:00 a.m., we'll be waiting for him with love in nine months. Yeah, we'd like a piece of healthy child with little holes in his rosy face. Because, Mr. Secretary, some people wait years for a child, and some people just fall into their lives. There's a woman who's been wanting to have a baby for years, and she's getting more cramped every month, and she's humiliated every month because your values are flawed. And some people haven't been planning on having kids for years, they just come along. And she doesn't weigh, she doesn't cut all the advice books from the outside, but she says, damn it, I'm 28 years old, and there's someone who can handle my obsessions, my depression, my bullshit, so when am I supposed to have a baby, our baby, if not now? And, you know, dear Zoltán, you're going to do it. I was lucky enough to be able to choose a doctor because the old one was too far away. In this case, it means that we should have traveled a few districts to it. So I started looking for a doctor on my friend's basis. I'm lucky because in the middle of the city, I can choose between n+1 doctors in the district, in the neighborhood, in the other neighborhood. Even if I couldn't pay for the expensive private hospital in Buda, I went to a doctor's appointment every month under humane conditions. And I was lucky because my chosen doctor worked in one of the best, most normal hospitals in Budapest. And I was lucky, because when they said it would be good if I went to xy for a test, but unfortunately, it's paid, I could say I was going to pay for it. I was lucky because I stayed healthy during my pregnancy, and I could work through it, and we had money and money to get everything the kid needed. I was able to buy the vitamins and supplements that they suggested, so I ate the entire periodic table, but it was worth it, because I have a healthy son who's three and a half months old and is doing better. Yeah, that was the story of the middle class you're working hard to kill. And now I'm gonna tell you about the layer that they don't know about, because they're still wearing sterile gloves when you think about them. [[20.50]] I'll tell you a secret, not everyone's as lucky as I am. 'Cause I think I am, and I really didn't get the best of everything, but I got all the supplies. And now that my son is born, I can tell you that I don't want any more kids, because that's the only one I can raise fair enough to get everything. And everything here is still not the electric towel warmer, but totally normal, everyday things: quality shoes, dress, food, drink, education, games, attention, care, time, love, conversation, laptop, university, travel, cinema, theatre, skating rink, wedding. I can give this to a child. So I'm gonna go to the doctor and sign up for medicine. Dear Minister, why? Because I can, because I can afford it, because I can replace it. You know what I mean? I bet you don't. There is a country in Hungary today, and I don't mean the country you're talking about with humid eyes, because there are such beautiful landscapes, and maybe Petőfi will speak in you too, so don't give me a god if no one can hear you, Radnóti. I'm thinking of the backward, falling, hopeless countryside where the bird goes with its backpack, but the campaigning politician doesn't at all. I'm going to finish this letter here, because I'm going to continue it tomorrow. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of these letters appear in our mailbox, in your mailbox, because believe me, we see on our mailing list that not only we will receive them, but you too. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you read it, and I would like to continue this letter tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-19-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask the representatives of the government if they wish to respond to what has been said. [[No signal.]] No. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your full day's work, and we will continue the work of the Parliament at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you very much for keeping the record, for the work of the staff of the Parliamentary Office, and tomorrow morning at 9:00. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 8:51 p.m.]]
