u2014-06-02-0	Dear Parliament, The sixth session of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Lajos Szűcs will be notaries of my assistance. Dear House, Today, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the LMP, spoke before the agenda: "The Paks Foreign Exchange Loan Trap. " The congressman has the floor.
u2014-06-02-1	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The government pushed the Paks loan agreement into Parliament. This means that it drives the country into a currency loan transaction worth EUR 10 billion, with an interest rate of almost 5%, the majority of which must be paid by the Russian partner within a 15-day deadline. Dear Parliament, Hungary's tragic dependence consists of four components: distorted economic structure, rising income outflow, increasing energy dependency, increasing public debt. The overall result of this is low wages and a country vulnerable to foreign capital and domestic oligarchs. Péter Szijjártó's words on the other day show the survival of the distorted economic structure, when he said that Hungary should be the first in the region to attract foreign capital. We've been listening to this story for 25 years. This distorted economic structure means that Hungary's Prime Minister is selling in Saudi Arabia and elsewhere that the labour force in Hungary is so vulnerable and that there is so little to be paid that it is possible to invest freely here and even receive tax incentives. The capital pump, which Prime Minister spoke about last summer, only that in 2009, the capital pump directed to our country took 4.7 percent of GDP out of the country. This first increased to 5.2 per cent under the Orbán government, then 5.4 per cent in 2012, 5.7 per cent in 2012, and 6 per cent in 2013. We are exactly waiting for Fidesz-KDNP representatives to sign our NAV investigation initiative to stop the outflow of income from the country. Another main way out of income is by the way offshore tomatoes. For four years, we've been demanding that the offshore knights be swept out of the public sector. In comparison, an offshore knight will be the third Orbán government's Minister for Development. The Paks Pact increases the country's energy dependency and public debt at the same time. There's a pretty good chance this loan agreement is gonna crash into Article 37 of the Fundamental Law. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Constitutional Court, and it may sooner or later be overturned by the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, According to Fidesz, MEP Béla Kovács has committed a direct treason when he has been working with the Russians organised and conspired for a long time. The thing is, you were organized and conspired to cooperate with the Russians when this loan agreement was concluded. The fact is that when the Prime Minister finds in 2011 that the country has to break out of the vicious circle resulting from the retail foreign exchange debt, after three years, he will push three million households, ten million Hungarians into the foreign exchange loan trap with his own hands. The euro loan for the expansion of Paks is the same defective product that the banks agreed on for the Hungarian foreign exchange lenders. There is only one fixed point here, the recorded reciprocity, which, on the basis of the investment scheme established in Moscow, will be sent back to Rosatom almost immediately to Moscow. However, the exact amount of HUF that Hungarian taxpayers have to pay in the course of their repayment is not available today without the knowledge of the euro exchange rate for 20 years thereafter. Hungarian taxpayers' revenues are generated in HUF. We do not care how many euros we have to pay back to Russia, but how many forints we have to earn to repay the loan. Did the Orbán government tell the Hungarian voters that this Paks adventure would cost every Hungarian citizen at least 600 thousand forints? From 2026 we have to pay even if the power plant is not finished, it places a disproportionate burden on future generations and governments, while the current suppliers enjoy the benefits, the Russian party decides what is the fulfilment, the Hungarian government has a 150 per cent penalty rate in excess of 15 days, and in case of 180 days of non-payment, the Hungarian government can be set up in a pipe. The revenues of the Paks power plant cannot be used to generate this loan; there are two sources of this repayment: gross increase in electricity prices and new taxes and tax increases. Dear Parliament, We demand that Parliament not place this pact on its agenda, but that the government launch a green investment programme as a matter of urgency. We would like Hungary's future not to be decided in the centre of the better performing Simicska empire in Radac Street, not in the Bilderberg Group and not in organized and conspired Hungarian-Russian pacts. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Kristóf Szatmáry. Here you go. [[Kristóf Szatmáry's microphone doesn't work.]] Please turn on the mic of Secretary of State Kristóf Szatmáry. [[It's happening.]] Thank you.
u2014-06-02-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Basically, with your speech, we should bring up the problem - and your speech so far was basically about whether or not we need nuclear power. Of course, it is possible to argue about what one thinks about the future of energy, but to doubt that Paks will be an important element of Hungarian energy independence, perhaps a little political adventure, even after the future enlargement. And I think that what you said here is also what you said, because indeed, as you said, the government has submitted the agreement on the Hungarian-Russian interstate credit agreement relating to the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the bill on this, so that everything you have previously asked for is now in line with the legal requirements for all kinds of international contracts. [[13.10]] Two important facts need to be drawn to the contract. On the one hand, the vote on the adoption of the national energy strategy by Parliament and on the preparation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for the maintenance of its capacity was 85 per cent and the mandate was 85 per cent in Parliament. So this shows that there is broad social support behind it. On the other hand, the framework agreement with the Russian party on the peaceful use of nuclear energy ensures the construction of the nuclear power plant block, the safe dismantling of existing installations, the safety of the fuel plant and the transport of spent fuel, and the financing of enlargement-related works on favourable terms. Contrary to what you have said, an agreement has been reached covering all elements of the renewal of the nuclear power plant and ensuring consistency between the elements. In addition, the credit agreement itself concluded conditions that are more favourable than market conditions; the maturity is 30 years, the repayment is to start after the plant is put into operation, the interest payable is to increase gradually in the first 11 years of the term below 4 per cent, in the subsequent seven-year period. The loan is in line with the financing capacity of the Hungarian budget, and this credit facility, contrary to what you have said, complies with the debt rule laid down in the Fundamental Law. The contract of construction is, of course, made in euro, so it would be a life-like expectation, and it would be difficult to conclude it in another currency, so it is logical to take on the loan in euro. Otherwise, I would just like to say that the imported electricity, which the investment aims to replace, must also be paid in foreign currency, because unfortunately Hungary's capacity in this direction is not sufficient. The impact of the investment on the Hungarian economy is not to be underestimated either. The investment is expected to create 10,000 new jobs and to increase the total national product by up to 1 percent. According to the agreement with the Russian party, 40 percent of the EUR 10-12 billion investment can be carried out by Hungarian companies. So the kind of money pump that you mentioned is driving 40 percent of the investment towards the Hungarian economy. This means at least four billion euros in order for the Hungarian corporate sector, and at least one billion euros in tax revenue for the Hungarian state register. Overall, the credit agreement therefore has significant positive effects for both energy supply and security and for the competitiveness of the domestic economy and for the corporate sector and public finances. In view of this, I would ask that the bill be judged and supported in a realistic manner. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-4	Márton Gyöngyösi, on behalf of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda: " Who and where do they decide our fate? " with the title " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past years, we have witnessed a number of national security-related events that could also be deeply damaging to our national sovereignty and raise certain issues. If these questions remain unanswered, there is a suspicion that Hungary's fate will be decided from abroad and will also be influenced by political decision-making in Hungary. These are national security risks that deserve attention in all respects. Here's the Snowden case, which is unique, embarrassing and unprecedented, because it's about espionage within a federal system. You too feel the embarrassment of this issue, because at the end of last year, in December, they gave in to pressure from Jobbik and called the committee of inquiry on this issue, but today we know that this dog comedy that you did on the Snowden Committee was nothing more than part of the Fidesz campaign. This is the message you sent to your peace marching camp under the slogan "We Will Not Be a Colony. " Two meaningless alibi meetings were held by this committee. The deadline expired on 31 March, there is no final report and there is no substantive finding. They could have taken the liberty of initiating a committee of inquiry in the Snowden case by a committee of the German Parliament, and LIBE listened to it, even if indirectly, Snowden on this very embarrassing matter. Now you can prove yourself again, because Jobbik will re-submit its initiative on the committee of inquiry this week. Let us hope that they do not hesitate and support our initiative. This weekend in Denmark there was also an interesting meeting, a Bilderberg meeting, which we know is meeting in a conspirative manner, in closed sessions, with the total exclusion of the public, and we know that every year they meet, and we know that the world, the cream of the global order, is from the financial, economic and political spheres at this meeting. According to some, the aim is to eradicate nation states, establish global order and global government. We don't know that, we just suspect that, but I'm sure the most powerful people in the world aren't gonna get together for a snag. We appreciate that, although we appreciate Lajos Kósa's sense of humor, but no one else in this country probably believes it except him. It is worrying that in the West where everyone talks about transparency and transparency in political decision-making, such meetings can take place and decisions can be made at such meetings. We appreciate the fact that Fidesz and its home press, the Hungarian Nemzet and HírTV have finally noticed that there are also Hungarian participants in these meetings. We are very happy that Máté Kovács is finally worried in public... [[It's grumpy.]] Sorry, Máté Kocsis is also concerned in public, and they have noticed that a very important former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai is also attending these meetings. This is about Gordon Bajnai, who disappeared from Hungary after the 2010 elections, touring the United States for two years, coming home not only as a party under the name of Ensemble-2014, but also as a foundation called Home and Progress, which we now know has received more than a billion forints of support from one of the most influential American foundations, the Center for American Progress, a background institution of the Democratic Party. [[13.20]] We do not understand why the attention of Fidesz and his press is selective, and why he did not seek the answer to these tough questions he has just formulated earlier. Shouldn't have gone too far, it would have been enough to ask János Martonyi, who served the second Orbán government, who was an invited member of Bilderberg Group meetings in 2008. János Martonyi functioned as governor of the background power during the right-wing Orbán governments. Or you could have asked György Surányi, who was invited to the Bilderberg meeting under the Horn government earlier. So we can say that in the last 24 years, there has been a constant representation of background power in this country under both Balliberal and Right-wing governments. In recent times Jobbik has made use of countless initiatives aimed at making the policy work transparent. These initiatives have been swept off with the MSZP. Please be partners in the coming years to make the operation of political decision-making transparent in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-6	I give the floor to the Secretary of State Zsolt Németh.
u2014-06-02-7	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think it's right for everyone to mind their own business. It is therefore the task of the parliamentary committee of inquiry to deal with Snowden and we hope that it will do so effectively. It is indeed a very important task for the government to address the potential risks arising from the operation of the Bilderberg Group. That's what the government does. And your job is to clarify your relationship with Kágébéla and the issue of treason. I think that this is an extremely important task for Jobbik in the coming period. As far as the Bilderberg Group is concerned, I would like to draw attention to the fact that decades ago, the Dutch Queen founded this group, there are members and there are invited. There are, for example, a significant number of European royal houses. János Martonyi was indeed invited to this meeting once. The procedure is private, but let me draw attention to the fact that the procedures of countless international organisations are private, such as Chatham House. Chatham House is the name of the procedure for private procedures. However, what you, Congressman, have said is truly objectionable about the composition of this circle, that the Bajnai Gordon was invited from Hungary in 2014, with whom very much and objectionable international activity has indeed been raised in the last four years. However, we welcome the invitation of János Martonyi, and we would like to invite as many people as possible who can give an objective picture of the country's situation. But what we need to know, ladies and gentlemen, is the composition of the Bilderberg Group, how the Bilderberg Group works, what ideas and suggestions may be made, we know. As we know very well, Commissioner Reding actually said at this group's meeting last year that we should try to call into question the legitimacy of the Hungarian elections. In contrast, we took the necessary tools and defended the legitimacy of the Hungarian elections. So we are doing our job in connection with the Bilderberg Group, honourable Member, honourable House, and we would like you to do your job on treason as well. Psychology knows the phenomenon of accusing someone of the crime that we commit ourselves, by the way. Let me draw your attention to the fact that you did not merely spit on István Pásztor during the inaugural session of Parliament. [[István Szávay: We had nothing to do with it!]] , not merely spit on him, but at the same time accused Members of Parliament who had just entered from an ecumenical service to the inaugural parliamentary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I think you are indebted to Béla Kovács. Béla Kovács himself has not made it clear to us yet how he feels about the charge of treason. You have not made it clear to us that if there is a judgment in the case of Béla Kovács, you can retain the mandate of the European Parliament, and you have not yet made it clear that this was a completely unique partisanism in the case of Béla Kovács, or, where appropriate, an organised attitude, because I have to say that Russia is the relation of Hungary, where Hungary is in the most vulnerable situation, because we have a unilateral dependence on energy. If you provide information to such a country in a systematic and organised manner, as is the case in the case of Béla Kovács, I think that this is an extremely serious situation. So I would like to sum up, ladies and gentlemen, what I have to say is that the parliamentary committee of inquiry really has to do the work, the government must also do the work, and you must be very clear and clear about your relationship with the issue of treason. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-8	The MSZP representative, Tamás Harangozó, also applied for a speech before the agenda entitled " Respect for the people of Budapest. " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Budapest has been the country's united, developing, prosperous capital for nearly 150 years. The symbol of the union of the three different cities is the statue composition on Margaret Island, on which the three intertwining beams form a pillar of flame that rises high. Today, after the law on the agenda requested by Fidesz concerning Budapest, this statue can be torn apart, not for three, but for 23 parts. The citizens of Budapest, my fellow Members, are attached to their district residential community, but they are also connected to the common capital. They are proud of their district and proud of their existence in Budapest, their local patriotism in Budapest. This question was reflected in the previous municipal system. In addition to the district authorities that were able to handle their affairs locally, there was a Metropolitan Assembly whose election was independent of this and which could guarantee that certain matters could be dealt with independently without the district interest. From the law you have presented, this aspect is completely lost. The citizens of Budapest live in one district, work in another, shop in one third, visit their family members and friends in the fourth and fifth. If you think about it, there is no means of transport that goes round and round each district, and how many investments we could have made in the past period, like 150 years, that couldn't have been created if this city was all about the tension of the interests of 23 different districts. What is terrible in the law is, among other things, the transformation of the electoral system, as there are more disproportions in this law than have ever been in the history of Hungarian suffrage - in terms of the value of the voter's vote. According to Ab's decision, you rewritten the electoral law on the basis of this and rewritten the districts. Interestingly, it doesn't bother you here that if this law is passed this way, the vote of a voter in downtown will be worth five times as much as, say, an angel country. And the further disproportionateness is stressed that while downtown citizens are slowly facing the fact that the statues are slowly flooding the district, and after Columbo Petrocelli and Kojak are slowly getting a statue, people in the suburbs are still struggling to see if there is any concrete road or sewerage in their part of the city. Dear Parliament, In addition, Fidesz clearly loves and cherishes fake parties. I would like to say to you that the National Election Committee, in its report before Parliament, has not drawn your attention to extending this completely absurd and completely corrupt system to the election in Budapest, but has also made an open call to the Parliament in writing to abolish the system of plural recommendation, which has provided hundreds of millions of fake parties, and which has enabled the misuse of citizens' data, in which, we know well, is still under investigation. Of course, we know nothing about the results of this. [[13.30]] However, if we look at this law, it can be seen that this proposal fits not only in the image of Fidesz changing electoral laws as Fidesz pleases, according to what kind of polls he has read in the week before, and what political goals he has, but also seems to go further, he would like to eliminate the community in Budapest that could be a significant counterweight to his governance - this is what he is about to do. To this you will also be assisted by Mayor István Tarlós, who is a strong savior of Budapest, because nothing shows his weakness more than that he hasn't spoken in the last few days, while a party in Debrecen and downtown announced the de facto termination of the capital at a press conference. The new password: everyone's worth where they live. Ladies and gentlemen, The question is what should an opposition in the spring elections show that here in the capital it could be a valid challenger for Fidesz: let us fight or not fight? We represent the need to fight. We must also fight here in Parliament, we must also fight with all legal and political means, not for ourselves, but for the rights of citizens, and so that the 150-year-old capital does not fall victim to your political unscrupulousness. We will therefore appeal to the President of the Republic, and we will ask him to ask for prior standard control of the law. If you do not do so, and yet you do pass the law, we will turn to our fellow Members to allow them to sign, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] refer directly to the Constitutional Court. Finally, we will turn directly to citizens to fight together for their rights, their city, Budapest. Together we send a message to Fidesz: respect to the people of Budapest! Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-06-02-10	Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2014-06-02-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is regrettable that this speech was not delivered in Parliament in 1994, when the then two-thirds majority MSZP-SZDSZ government changed the rules of election to a much greater extent, with the exception of each municipality. But four years ago, we started to reform the local government system in terms of elections, you can remember this, Fidesz-KDNP supported it, the opposition didn't have such a clear picture to reduce it by half for municipal representatives. We went through this, as well as here in Parliament, because now there are only half as many Members. We believe that this new system is cheaper, simpler and more democratic. It is definitely cheaper, because obviously the mayors will not receive a fee as a representative, so the salaries of 23 Members will be saved by the people of Budapest. It is simpler, because it is not only on four ballots, but on three ballots, it is still possible to vote in the district, on the one hand, for individual Members and, on the other hand, for mayor. Obviously, there is still the possibility to intervene in the politics of the capital, as, on the one hand, the mayor will be elected from among the candidates of the mayor, and through the district mayors, the composition of the Metropolitan Assembly, and either the mayor or the representatives from the compensation list to the Metropolitan Assembly, they may continue to have a clear say in the affairs of the capital. This system is more democratic, as citizens will vote for people rather than lists. In Hungarian, no member of the Budapest General Assembly will be included in the Metropolitan Assembly without being considered in person before the voters. I mean, as mayor, it's his person that the voters can support or another person. Thus, everyone takes more personal responsibility in the new system for the affairs of the capital. And who is included in the compensation list as one of the authors of the nine mandates, has also started the elections, in a district, but has not won, and can therefore come from the compensatory list. It is also an advantage of the current system that it is easier for candidates to present candidates, which is why our system is also more democratic, as it is easier to appoint a candidate for mayor. As far as the control of the capital is concerned, it is 20-25 years ago that the problem of duality, the two levels, the constant collusion of district and capital levels in capital politics. Now, these two levels are not as separate as they were before, they will not be drawn together, but it is the harmony and cooperation that counts, since they will not be separate district and separate metropolitan interest representatives, but these two groups will come together, which is why the central management of the capital and the management of the districts can be much more smooth. None of them go against each other. Your proposal would put Budapest at risk, making it similar to a chessboard when the districts would not be aware of how individual Members would get in. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, within the European Union, in the Commission or in other bodies, some Member States delegate one representative and then have an equal decision-making opportunity, but we cannot say that the European Union's full decision-making is anti-democratic, because a small country and a large country delegate one member to certain bodies. This is how the whole European Union works. We have already seen before the elections to the European Parliament, in the parliamentary elections, that the MSZP wanted to explain its own defeat for various procedural reasons. Not with the content of his policy, when they opposed the reduction of the rent or other government measures, but with the electoral procedural rules, they saw the cause of defeat. Losers' strategy is that they are already entering forward into electoral procedural rules and say that the winning compensation is then, and now this election amendment is anti-democratic. It seems to me that this is rather a kind of prior communication by the MSZP when preparing for defeat, as we can see that there is a problem that needs to be covered up in Budapest, whether there is a very, very tense relationship between the allies or within their own house, there is no candidate of their own. Therefore, it is far better for you to talk about the electoral system than to talk about your own problem. But if you have said that you respect the people of Budapest, you have honored the people of Budapest by keeping Gábor Demszky in power for 20 years, and you have not even put forward your own candidate. You have honoured the people of Budapest with real estate problems, in which monuments have disappeared. The BKV has been reduced to a paying place. They had a congressman who'd only been in the assembly a few weeks because he had to resign on charges III/II. While Fidesz-KDNP [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With the National Theatre, MÜPA, Millenáris, Sportarena, Kossuth Square, Castle Garden Bazaar, Metro 4, the renewal of Erzsébet Square, the Ferencváros stadium, Vigado, Music Academy and Erkel Theatre, he honored the people of Budapest. And you will continue to do so if you have the chance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-02-12	At the same time, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, on behalf of the KDNP, spoke before the agenda: "To Teacher's Day. " Congresswoman's got the floor.
u2014-06-02-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For many years, it has been common for our settlements in May-June to see the flowery sheets of the schools, the graduation children, whether they are high schoolers or elementary schoolchildren, go home with a flood of flower bouquets. The same is true of educators who helped children to achieve these results. Well, it's no coincidence that we've been remembering educators on the first Sunday of June for a long time. I have to admit, I haven't been very fond of teacher's day for many years. We were of the opinion that society, politics, compensates for its remorse by setting them in the spotlight while underestimating educators both financially and morally, on one day of the year, as if to compensate for their absence, and by embracing them with various vocabulary flowers. It's not like that anymore. Please allow me to briefly mention some of the measures that the government has taken since 2010 in order to ensure that the appreciation of teachers in this country is finally in its place. In the Public Education Act adopted in 2011, we created the pedagogical career, which has been accompanied by a very lively international interest ever since. The career results in a different category based on the results, quality, performance and time spent in the work of each kindergarten teacher, teacher and teacher. In return, of course, you have to prove what you have done. Respect and honor for teachers who didn't fall for all kinds of stupid boycott calls, and over 22,000 people tested themselves at the first test, i.e. they uploaded the portfolio that's been echoing the press over the past few months. These teachers will enter a higher category from next January and continue to do so. [[13.40]] Yes, their working conditions have become tougher, but despite all the contrary rumors, the workload has not increased. It's part of the career. As is the fact that they received a significant wage increase in September last year and then in January this year, which the government will continue again in September this year in the legal way. In a material sense, this kind of appreciation hasn't been in a long, long period of decades. But I can continue the line: over the past week, 170 teachers have received a very serious, high-level state award: László Németh Prize, Albert Szent-Györgyi Prize, Eötvös Prize, Ápáczai Csere János Prize. Or within the framework of the talent program that we have been conducting for years, more than 50 teachers have received Bonis Bona awards and awards again, and these teachers have all been celebrated by children, disciples, parents and colleagues accompanying them. And those who have not received awards, medals, as always on this track, children's smiles, parents' thanks, society's recognition. I also have to report that in the last year, since we've been collecting this kind of data, we haven't been aware of any teacher-beating in the country, which was quite typical. This shows that their appreciation is increasing in this sense. Then the Klebelsberg Scholarship and the National Pedagogist Choir, which will make the teaching society a serious partner of the government, all result in a welcome increase in the number of teachers' applicants. This was also the result of the renewal of teacher training, directors report that it is not uncommon for a job advertisement to be published today that twenty or thirty people, today I have heard that sixty people are applying. Therefore, praise, thanks, recognition are due to teachers, respect to teachers. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to listen to this mediation, to think for a short second of the teacher, kindergarten teacher or teacher who has helped him or his child or grandson to live a full life. Happy birthday, all of you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-02-14	Today, the last thing we have to do is speak before the agenda, about our common affairs. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the last two months, Hungarian citizens have been able to express their will directly and clearly on two occasions and to judge the most important events and actors in Hungarian domestic politics: 6 April and 25 May. People said yes in both elections, and they said no. For example, they said no to the leaders of the fallen left, but not just one, fellow Members; they said no to all three actors of the triumvirate, not only Attila Mesterházy, but also to Gordon Bajnai and Ferenc Gyurcsány. So Attila Mesterházy seems to have drawn the conclusions, now we're just waiting to see when Gordon Bajnai and Ferenc Gyurcsány will draw the conclusions. All three of them failed the parliamentary elections, all three of them have to leave if they want to measure by the same standards. Ladies and gentlemen, But the voters in these elections said no to extreme political styles and said no to political, power ideas, such as those of the European United States, which are different from those of Hungary today. The idea of the European United States has received neither majority nor support from the Hungarian electorate at all, and I must say that this is why we are doing the right thing every time we represent Hungary's interests in accordance with the original principles set out in the Statute of the European Union. The idea of the European United States would also have meant that the fundamental decisions are taken not by the leaders of the national Member States, not by the parliaments of the national Member States, but by the political parties and communities organised at the level of the European Parliament or the European Parliament. That is why I think, and on the part of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group, we strongly support the Prime Minister's efforts to decide not on the next leader of the European Commission on the basis of some political interest, but on the basis of the original principles laid down in the Statute of the Community, that decision is taken by the leaders of the European Union Member States. This is what corresponds to the fact that the European Union is a Europe of nations and not a United States of Europe. Accordingly, on fundamental issues, the decisive weight is not for supranational leaders, but for elected leaders of national Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, In the same elections, I think that Hungarian citizens also gave a clear judgment on how to represent a community. The Hungarian citizens said that all politicians have no place in Hungarian public life, they do not support them, who are busy with their own affairs of power instead of the interests of voters. Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid that this debate on the change of the municipal electoral system is exactly the same. Ladies and gentlemen, 'Cause what is it that you're already fighting for in words, and I suppose you'll be fighting in Parliament's Chamber in the afternoon? You are fighting to give party politicians paid posts at the Metropolitan Assembly. You are struggling to offer socialist party cadets who are out of Parliament paid jobs by the Metropolitan Assembly. I don't think that's what people want. On the other hand, what do we represent? We represent that, as in Parliament, as in the Capital Assembly, the directly elected politicians, elected by the people, should have a role in the leadership of the city. I think that every mayor, every candidate for mayor, is directly decided by the electorate, just like the mayor himself. We therefore believe that the more democratic the system, which is based on the principle of direct choice, is the most important. That is why we support the transformation of the metropolitan system so that the directly elected mayors and the directly elected mayor in the Metropolitan Assembly have a vast majority. Together, they can say what the real purpose and real interest of the citizens of the city is. We want a system that is simpler, which is cheaper and which is more democratic. It is more democratic because people decide directly about their representatives and their leaders, it is cheaper because there will be no paid party cadets in the Metropolitan Assembly, but instead the directly elected mayors will take decisions for a salary, for the mayor's salary. And it's easier because it's obvious for people to decide who goes to the Metropolitan Assembly in a visible way, because they themselves can judge and decide about their candidate for mayor and thus their representative. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-02-16	Once again, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2014-06-02-17	[[No microphones.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Although you mentioned the subject, Mr. Group Leader, I would also respond to all of them. Perhaps we can remember when in a large mass demonstration Bajnai Gordon said a year ago that...
u2014-06-02-18	Mr. Secretary, if you put your microphone on, that would make it easier for you to understand.
u2014-06-02-19	Thank you very much. Then I'll start over for those who are further away, thank you very much for the warning. Perhaps many of us remember the time when Bajnai Gordon, a year ago, at a meeting, said that in a year's time I would be Prime Minister of Hungary, with this program started two years ago and a year ago. The voters decided, and Gordon Bajnai did not become Prime Minister of Hungary, and he could sit as former Prime Minister, together with three other colleagues in the group of independents, just like another former left-wing Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány. He is also in the lead of a small independent group of four in Parliament, while a third Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán, is sitting here in Parliament with 133 fellow Members. The voters therefore made a clear decision as to who they wanted to see in the Prime Minister's seat and who they did not. Nevertheless, it seems that neither Ferenc Gyurcsány nor Gordon Bajnai will live as a failure or, even if he sees it as a failure, will not draw conclusions from the results of the elections, both in the parliamentary elections and in the elections to the European Parliament, but will continue to be the leader of his formation. Although Bajnai Gordon may now regret saying that, even after the parliamentary elections, he was getting out of Parliament and resigned from his parliamentary mandate, he said that he did not wish to continue politics here. Perhaps if you knew the results of the MSZP in advance in the European Parliament elections and the processes that took place within the next week, you would have made a different decision and you might want to sit here in Parliament. [[13.50]] It would be weird if someone from outside the parliament was just trying to do the job of becoming Prime Minister. But in this he has a great challenger within the left, because we know the politics of Ferenc Gyurcsány, he will never give up, he will never help the other political rival even on his side, he will not help the PM's seat on the left, but he will also try to subdue the MSZP and everyone else on the left. But we can clearly see that there are those who respect the decision of voters in this respect, and others only consider it important to seize power from their own direction. Therefore, although the head of the MSZP drew conclusions from their own results, neither in the case of the Gyurcsány Party nor in the case of the leader of the Bajnai Party, they do not make the opposition as a dwarf party, as a small party, as if nothing had happened. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] As regards the question of the European United States, what Mr Group Leader said, the question of the European Commissioners, it is important here to look at what the European Union really has to do, why the founding fathers created it, beyond guaranteeing European peace. This first and most important mission has been fulfilled by the European Union, since there are no wars. Anyone who speaks against the European Union should go to military cemeteries within Europe, look at the military graves there, and then find out what benefits the European Union has in creating European peace. However, in many cases, this bureaucratic waterhead is already becoming self-propelled and looking at its own official interests. It must be in the interest of the Union to serve its citizens, not just to create European united states with its leaders, because in Brussels they can do anything better than in Helsinki, Madrid, Paris or Budapest, because this alone is not a sure point. No one can think that because they work in Brussels bureaucracy, they know the answers to questions better than if they work in Rome or anywhere else, in any European capital, in Prague or in Budapest. It is therefore the function of the European Union to protect European citizens from the global challenges that are already threatening all European citizens because of the huge multinational companies, because today a nation state is unable to resist certain large companies, large international companies, with so much more capital for that company than the country's budget. The European Union, as an economic community, as a common market, as a co-supervisory office on competition rules, can indeed bring benefits to all European citizens. But it is not an advantage in itself that some decision-making takes place in Brussels and not in the parliaments of the Member States, in the capitals of the Member States. The Union must therefore focus on this, on protecting European citizens, and European citizens must not be protected from nation states - and even, where appropriate, nation states can answer some of the problems of the economic crisis better than the Union - but should seek to protect citizens from large international companies against which the states are already few, at least most of the states; because Germany may still have power, but Hungary, Slovakia, Greece or Portugal no longer have economic power to protect these countries from these large companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-20	I respectfully welcome the National Assembly and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László Kiss, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; and Dániel Z. Carpathian right-hander. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. First, we will decide on a motion to amend the agenda. Dear House, Ferenc Papcsák, Fidesz, Member of the Council has initiated CLXXXIX of 2011 on the local governments of Hungary. Act No. L of 2010 on the election of local government representatives and mayors and Act No. XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure T/146 on the amendment of Act No. The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. Mr Lajos Szűcs, please describe the emergency proposal.
u2014-06-02-21	Dear Parliament, The draftsman of the urgent proposal initiated the general debate on the proposal to be held on this day by the end of the day. For the purposes of the related Commission announcements, the committees may meet today during the meeting of the Parliament. An amending proposal should be possible today, pending the conclusion of the general debate. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. In order to hold a detailed discussion, the negotiating committee may meet during the session of Parliament and before opening today's sitting. The Legislative Committee, after receiving the national information, but still the House Rule 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2014-06-02-22	Dear Parliament, At the same time as the urgent discussion was initiated, the authors proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of the proposal so that the general debate would take place today after the decisions have been taken. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you if T/146 will be brought to an urgent hearing. and the date of the general debate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 130 votes in favour, 48 votes against and without abstention, the Parliament took the submission to trial. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Based on the previous agreement of the political groups, there will be no interaction, immediate questions and questions until the government is established. We now move on to the first item on the agenda. Dear Parliament, There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposal for a decision amending the Decision and of the draft amending proposal. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Independent motion by Antal Rogán and other Members H/132. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion H/132/10. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/132/12. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, H/132/13. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. I now give the floor to Congressman Ákos Kara, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have eight minutes. Here.
u2014-06-02-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the Legislative Committee discussed the proposal and, above all, I would like to say that it supported the proposal, supported it by a large majority. During the debate, various positions were expressed, but on the part of the governing parties we made it clear at the beginning of the debate that the kind of objection which the opposition has objected to will not be supported either. That is why I ask this House to accept the proposal adopted by the Legislative Committee in accordance with its original aims. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-06-02-24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, who will present the minority opinion. Congressman!
u2014-06-02-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There was indeed a strange situation at the Legislative Committee because none of the factions supported the amendment that the Judicial Committee had submitted to the Legislative Committee. By the way, this was originally the proposal of a Fidesz Member. Yet there was a relatively wide-ranging debate. The reason for this was that, at the committee's first meeting, we were confronted with the fact that the new house rules did not comply, i.e., to put it simply, that the Judicial Committee submitted an anti-ruled proposal to our committee. All the Members present agreed with this. One thing I would like to draw attention to, in addition to the fact that, on my part, I am pleased that, in the first such case, we did not fall into the mistake of supporting an otherwise known and recognised anti-house proposal, which is not in the summary that the Legislative Committee has now submitted to this House. And I believe that on such a precedent issue, it would have been fortunate not only for the President of the Commission to say that he not only disagrees with the proposal in substance, but also considers it against the rules, not only by the opposition, but also in the written document that will be presented before the Parliament's plenary session. Moreover, there was agreement in the committee, as my fellow Member before me said. That is why, Honourable Parliament, I felt that the minority opinion was necessary in order to inspire the Legislative Committee with this speech so that not only these concerns would be included in the minutes next time, but also these important issues are included in the minutes themselves. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-02-26	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-02-27	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-06-02-28	Congressman Balla has the floor.
u2014-06-02-29	[[His name appears on the monitor.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, since both the majority and the minority opinion of the committee indicated that, in fact, there was no debate in the committee on the report that is now in front of this House. Thus, I think that protecting this report cannot be my task, since everyone is in favour of it. And the bad practice that is about a debate in a committee on a proposal that we made clear at the outset that no one will support, and I do not think that it should be brought to this House. So I wouldn't do that. I ask everyone to support the report submitted by the Legislative Committee. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-30	Thank you very much. I thank the rapporteur for his speech. Congressman, I would like to inform you that at the end of this debate you will have nine minutes to close. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, MEP LMP, who had indicated in writing his intention to speak. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-02-31	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'll be very brief. With regard to Mr Balla's comment, may I point out that my fellow Member Bárándy is right in that he has brought this debate to the House in this way, that we are dealing with a new system of procedure, and it would be good if there were no more examples that the commission - and not just any commission - would bring an anti-house proposal to the Legislative Committee. I think that Gergely Bárándy is right that, especially when we entered a new system, it would have been appropriate to commemorate this interlude in the report of the Legislative Committee, not the truly very unworthy debate, but the fact that such a case had occurred should have been remembered in the report of the Legislative Committee. By the way, what happened on the committee was, briefly, that very creative and thorough alternative explanations were made at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. I would like to offer a very brief explanation to the attention of the pro-government majority instead of long alternative reasons, referring to the general debate that a meaningful debate could indeed be held, whether on the voting rights of the governing president or on the four-fifths. Why this debate didn't take place when you brought in the House Rules and the Parliamentary Act, there was no response. Well, Mr. Group Director, I would like to propose a short alternative explanation that it would be enough to write behind all these proposals that we have won a lot, but still not enough. I mean, that's the real reason for the whole proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-32	Thank you very much. I don't see a pre-notified speaker. I'm asking if anyone wants to tell me. Please let me know. [[There's no signal.]] [[There's no signal.]] No. If no one wants to say anything... (No signal coming in. ) No. The debate is closed. I would like to ask if the rapporteur wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Congressman Balla has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, The thing is, we try to choose decent solutions. I have also said it in the debate, and I have said it now, the two-thirds mandate is absolutely clear. A four-year term could be carried out with the opposition vice-president sitting on the pulpit for each vote, but this would not only allow the ruling party to exercise a two-thirds mandate, but would also automatically remove a mandate from the opposition. We were not thinking of such a shady solution, but of a clear, clear solution, which has been used in most of Europe's parliaments, that the President should exercise his right to vote. That's what happened, and I told you then, Mr. Leader, you'll understand someday. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I consider the debate to be closed. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to the bill on the amendment of certain laws in conjunction with the Law on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. Opinion of János Lázár and other Members T/135. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/135/8. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/135/10. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/135/11. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-02-35	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 28 May 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/135. Bill No. 1. In view of the fact that the law adopted last week also requires a revision of the legislative level of the legal system in the context of the changed ministerial tasks and powers, the bill was submitted to the Parliament in order to harmonise the terms of office of ministers. [[14.10]] The Committee received two amendments from the Judicial Committee containing codification and grammatical clarifications. The amendments were supported by our committee, which included 22 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention, in the summary amendment proposal and the summary report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-02-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't think so. As the rapporteur has not spoken now, I would like to inform you that there will be time at the end of the debate. I'll ask if someone from the managing government wants to speak in a 10-minute time frame. [[Dr. Répássy Robert says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of two-minute comments during the debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP, who expressed his wish to speak in writing. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-06-02-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Public service is a genre where you think - at least until now - that you are sufficiently safe and well legalized. Even though this has been undermined through the Code of Work in recent years, it seemed to be more certain within the framework of the public service. Now, in the case of public servants, permanent foreign service workers, if they return to Hungary and do work here, and perhaps they do not accept all that is drawn into their direction by a unilateral amendment from the government, they will have to face the fact that they are losing everything; everything that has appeared before as their rights. Now, in this bill, that's the anomaly that's facing us. We have tabled an amendment because we believe that this is not right. We believe that you too must be able to decide whether you want to build a world in which the worker is ultimately vulnerable. It doesn't matter to you now, as I see it, whether it is drafted within the framework of the Code of Work or within the framework of public service or other laws. Nor is it good, in the framework of the Code of Labour, if, in other laws, but so far only partial - one of its surfaces - they are now starting globally to take a great deal of measures to impose on workers that are combined with the loss of existing powers. If I want to translate this story very simply, then it's about if someone who is doing permanent foreign service and returns and is not placed in his original job, but offers him anything else - anything else! - Something that might be humiliating to his qualifications and many others, and he doesn't accept it, then he'll have to face the fact that he's losing all of the things associated with the acquittal, and it seems as if he's resigned. In English, no driver's license you could have validated until then, you can't enforce it. The salary due for the discharge period or the severance pay, but even in terms of legal remedies, I think this is absurd. So that's what's practically unacceptable and unacceptable. It should finally be decided for you whether it is important for you that the worker is able to exist in real, real, tangible, with guarantees in his hands and safe. You know, what you call elasticity, rubber rules, it's not about flexibility, it's about vulnerability. He returned as a liability, as I said, within the framework of the Labour Code, no matter what we would talk about, whether it was money or the reduction or termination of the allowance for night or afternoon allowances, or other things, the possibility of concluding a collective agreement, in respect of state-owned companies, it was not possible to differ more positively than the basic law itself, the Labour Code. Well, they're doing something similar in these cases. Word-word, I just want to say that this is unacceptable to me, to us, to the Hungarian Socialist Party, but not to us, but also to the people who are personally affected by this decision and previous decisions. So I would very much like to suggest to you that you consider the amendment that we have tabled, simply in order not to take a multitude of measures that are accompanied by the full vulnerability of workers in the coming period. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone still wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal on the monitor. No. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to answer. [[Dr. Répássy Robert says no.]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the agreed agenda, the decision-making procedure shall take place at the earliest in a series of votes starting at 15:30. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/10, which initiated the amendment of Act T/10 to abolish the immunity of its representatives. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr President Novak in a five-minute time frame. Congressman, you have the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has always considered it necessary to combat political crime, and just as the word Gypsy Crime does not mean that all Gypsies are criminals, so the word "political crime" does not mean that all politicians are criminals, but there are typical forms of crime that are characteristic of politicians and deserve special solutions, such as double punishment - to mention only one of our general points of programme in this regard. However, there are also legal forms of political crime. They're the first to be dealt with. On the day of the inaugural session, Jobbik presented a package of laws to combat political crime, in which we made some important proposals. Together with Mr Gábor Vona, Head of the Group, we have also tabled, among other things, our amendment to the parliamentary law aimed at abolishing immunity, which, unfortunately, was swept down by the Justice Committee, in fact unread and undiscussed. To this day, we have received no answer as to why the ruling parties need this outdated institution, the immunity right to hide behind their immunity rights even with public law crimes. After all, immunity not only protects political criminals from conviction, but unfortunately also hinders investigation. It is not possible to investigate, in the case of a Member of Parliament with immunity, let us say, who exercises this immunity. Unfortunately, we can see that in some cases, in the most serious cases, immunity cannot even be waived, because despite our attempts to lead by example, unfortunately, it complicates the case that immunity is most often placed on the Parliament's table. We would like to relieve the Parliament of its burden: do not argue here many nights about which politician you wish to grant political protection, immunity, because we seriously believe that everyone is equal before the laws. That's not what the National Assembly should be dealing with on a regular basis. There are a lot of acute, serious social problems, and we should not take away the resources of the Parliament, so we are asking you to settle this issue once and for all. Immunity must be abolished. It must also be abolished because of what János Zuschlag said that the higher-ranking leaders of the MSZP did not follow him to prison, and even because these crimes could not be discovered, because the immunity also hindered the investigation, nor can it be investigated for his fellow Members with immunity rights. That's why we want to abolish immunity. [[14.20]] You regularly measure on the basis of political or human sympathy, you may also make some kind of deal. It is no coincidence that, while the rightful Member's immunity will be suspended in two weeks, the Parliament will suspend it - quite rightly, we ask for this, however conceptual it is - but if it is, let us say, Ferenc Gyurcsány's immunity, then we can see that the prosecution has requested the suspension of the immunity of Ferenc Gyurcsány in April, and you have pulled this simple matter from April to September. I'm saying it's simple because it wasn't a question of whether Ferenc Gyurcsány was guilty in that case. The question was whether the Fidesz pro-government majority of the Parliament wanted to grant political protection and therefore immunity to Ferenc Gyurcsány. This is a simple case that you pulled from April to September, hindered the investigation. What I'm asking is that we don't undermine the investigation by maintaining immunity. Let us take seriously what you in the Fundamental Law have so beautifully formulated at the level of words in the XV. Article 1 (1) which states that " everyone is equal before the law ". But then it turns out that there are more equals with representatives of irresponsible institutions, so to speak. This should stop, so that Parliamentary Members can't hide behind their immunity by using public-law crimes. As in the case of political job accumulation, as in another legal form of political crime, we are now not only leading by example, but we are presenting these proposals, either in the knowledge that you may be sweeping them down again today, as has been the case with this better proposal to ban job accumulation, and in the first period of the previous term, several times have they swept down that proposal, but finally, as a result of social pressure, the social pressure that Jobbik has also triggered, you have backed down, and from this year Jobbik's success is that political job accumulation, as a legal form of political crime, will be completed, the most common form of political crime, as well. Of course, you have created another loophole, but basically, let's say, a municipal representative or mayor, a county assembly representative can't be the one who is also a Member of Parliament, who can't take a full-time salary from two places - although I would prefer to call it stealing - because obviously two main jobs cannot be honoured by the politician. I think that we should start by cleaning up political life by bringing about the many things that have been mentioned. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-40	Thank you very much. The word belongs to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have two minutes, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-41	Mr President, As chairman of the immunity committee, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It would be impossible for me to present the entire historical development of immunity and the need to maintain the legal institution in two minutes, which Jobbik, if you will, has sworn to abolish. However, in short, I would like to draw the attention of this House to this. In Hungary, the history of immunity goes back to the Middle Ages, which we do not prove to be more explanatory than the fact that, according to the Tripartitum of Werbőczy, the ambassadors of the Order have already received immunity protection. In communist times, immunity is both formal and substantively empty, and immunity has been given real content once again after the change of regime by creating a democratic rule of law. In fact, immunity is made up of two conceptual elements, both the non-compliance and the inviolability, which together ensure independence and freedom of representatives in all democratic countries of the world. In agreement with the limitations of freedom of expression, the following legal elements of the Criminal Code are subject to these limitations: incitement to the community, violation of a national symbol, public denial of the crimes of national socialist and communist systems, abuse of data classified as top secret and classified, abuse of confidential data, abuse of classified data with limited dissemination. In the light of the above facts, I would like to ask my fellow Members to continue to consider the incessant practice in Parliament that this House does not suspend the immunity of this Member in private cases, but in public cases. Finally, allow me to make a comment, namely that recently, in relation to immunity matters, the group of the national party, namely Jobbik, has given most of the work to the immunity committee. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-02-42	Thank you. With all due respect, I ask Members to respect the time frame for the other's work. Congressman András Schiffer has the floor, LMP. We have two minutes, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-43	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The tightening of immunity is, yes, but the abolition of immunity is quite simply demagogy. I do not want to go all the way back to the Romans, that the institution of Néptribunus was already protected by a similar legal institution. In 1397 in the English House of Commons, a representative named Thomas Haxey II. King Richard criticized his scandalous financial policy, and then a treason lawsuit was brought upon him. If there is no immunity, then if, let us say, President Novák criticizes György Matolcsy's scandalous policy or Viktor Orbán's, he could very easily be the victim of a treason lawsuit. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] Then, in 1689 Bill of Rights, immunity was first embodied. We could mention France, 1789-90, but it may be much more important for Hungarian constitutionalism if we refer to the Werbőczy Triplebook, where the ambassadors of the Order Parliament have already been protected. This was the salvus conductus institution. So the historical constitution was then still familiar with this institution, Article 10 of 1723 or Article II of Law No. Under Lipót, the 1790 defense for freedom of speech and the 12th Act of 1867, which also recognised the immunity of Members. This isn't about getting a congressman to commit a crime. It is about protecting the Member for his political statements in his capacity as his representative. The LMP has not only been consistent in its policy over the past four years so that no one can be protected for its comments or actions as mayor, Prime Minister. We have also tabled a legislative amendment to the House that because someone is involved in some kind of mayor's squabble or misbehaviour as Prime Minister, they should not be subject to immunity, but if, in their capacity as representatives, even a better representative gives a political opinion, they should be granted immunity. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-44	Thank you very much. Congressman László Kiss has the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-45	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should talk about the real things. And the real thing is that in recent years, Hungarian politics has indeed sunk into unprecedented depths. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That's right! That's absolutely true!]] It is enough to think only of the racist, anti-Semitic or misogynistic speeches of the previous years, or of the events of recent months, KáGéBéla and his associates. The Hungarian people rightly expect Parliament to respond to this situation. However, Jobbik's proposal is not an answer. The purpose of immunity is to preserve the independence of the legislative body. This right is what makes it possible, for example, for socialist representatives to look at the real situation of the Public Machine in Parliament, but that is the right that my fellow Member Schiffer spoke about when he said that it was possible to live with it for all Members when he wanted to find out the truth, the reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not the right to immunity that must be abolished, but, on the basis of the proposal for a resolution submitted by the MSZP, a standing committee with decisive powers should be set up which can effectively take action against the unworthy political conduct of any Member of Parliament. If we think of just these few seconds, one minute 20 seconds, which this speech has now seen, then we have seen that each group, including the Jobbik Group, has something to do with preserving the culture and dignity of the Hungarian Parliament. I think we can do a great deal if we consider ourselves bound by the rules that should apply to all politicians in the service of this nation, if we limit ourselves, when we speak on the basis of our passions, otherwise. The MSZP does not support putting the proposal on the agenda because it has a better proposal. Thank you.
u2014-06-02-46	Thank you very much. Here comes Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik. You have two minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add two points to the arguments made by my fellow Novák Ancient Group. One was that I held 120 residential forums in the 3rd Körmend-centered district of Vas county in my constituency, and there was a clear need to review the issue of immunity. [[14.30]] Today, too, you have referred to the importance of the electoral will in the context of the restructuring of the municipal system in the capital, and it would be good to keep this aspect in mind in this case as well. The other issue, which is very often raised in the case of immunity, is that, where appropriate, the removal of this could mean that the work of Members could be made impossible. I believe that this reason is not strong enough to at least start the debate itself on this issue. I am very pleased that there was a faction that said that we should definitely move towards tightening up. László Kiss, a socialist colleague before me, referred to the fact that in recent years Hungarian politics has fallen to quite serious depths. As a member of the MSZP faction, you are obviously equipped with sufficient knowledge about this, so I do not want to comment on these sentences in this respect. I think that it is certainly time for the negotiations to start at least with regard to the abolition of this privilege, at least to narrow it down, although our position remains determined, we want to achieve a complete abolition. And since you, fellow Members of the Government, often refer to the social support behind you, it would be welcome to take this aspect into account and to support this series of issues. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In that case, I will ask Mr President Novak if he wishes to respond within a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congressman, you have the floor. You have two minutes, please.
u2014-06-02-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The masturbation of the MSZP is not surprising, as they are sufficiently interested in maintaining the institution of immunity, as János Zuschlag has already said. The creation of a committee where we can talk about this matter and maintain the situation is certainly not surprising on the part of the MSZP. This smear has led us to where you are now, honourable Members of the MSZP. I can tell András Schiffer that the abolition of immunity is far from demagogy, because that would mean that this is virtually unrealizable, almost utopia. It's not like that. We would immediately implement the abolition of immunity on the first day of our accession to the government. I think that without any immunity, we can do excellently the work of our fellow Members, as demonstrated by my fellow Members, as we, without immunity, have tabled more legislative proposals and more proposals for resolutions than all the other opposition parties - or I don't know whether they have split in two or three ways - I say that we have tabled more legislative proposals and more proposals for resolutions than all the other opposition Members have put together to say only one dry statistical fact and not to go into its subjective judgment. So I can say that we can do our job well without immunity. Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, although I felt a bit biased, even as a result of his post, should not be afraid that he would be left without a presidency, he could find another task here in Parliament. But if, say, KDNP's position or, thus, the ruling parties - although the most responsible, the Fidesz unfortunately listened here - then I can say that it is right that the history of immunity goes back to the Middle Ages. That is why we would like to end it, because it is a feudal institution, giving politicians some kind of prerogatives; this is unacceptable. And the fact that most of the cases were generated by Jobbik, please, our radicalism means that we will not escape in an armored, 100 million-dollar armored car, as Viktor Orbán did on 23 October 2006. I was also produced, and in all five different cases, it was established by a court of law [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that it was illegally produced, and when, for example, in this case, I dared to call Officer Tamás Kalmár, who was later produced in the Vizoviczki case (the president bell rings) In that case, my immunity was finally suspended for defamation. There really are cases like this...
u2014-06-02-50	Please, Congressman, stop.
u2014-06-02-51	.......................................................................................................................................... But we're also prepared to suspend our immunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at the end of today's votes. Dear Parliament, It is 14:34 a.m., but according to the agreed agenda, the decision-making procedures start at 15.30 a.m. at the earliest, which means that until that date, I will now take a break. Break for 15 hours and 30 minutes. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 14.34 - 15.34 President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Ádám Mirkóczki and Dr. Lajos Szűcs)
u2014-06-02-53	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Please take your seats. [[Take a few seconds.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Please take your seats. Now we have decisions to make. I ask the faction leaders to ensure the necessary quorum. Dear Parliament, We're conducting a presence check. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. Please press one of the voting buttons now. [[It's happening.]] I declare that the Parliament has a quorum. Members who have noticed that their voting machine is not working, please indicate. Dear Parliament, There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. Decision on the draft amending decision and the final vote. Independent motion by Congressman Antal Rogán and other Members H/132. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee H/132/12. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate is H/132/13. Available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by H/132/16. You can also get to know me on the website. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Now we have decisions to make. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in order to adopt the proposal for a decision and to maintain certain amendments, the provisions of the Fundamental Law require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP and Jobbik Group proposed to maintain certain amendments which were not included in the summarised amendment proposal. These initiatives are H/132/14. and 15 are available on the network. That's what we're gonna decide first. Dear House, H/132/5 Mr Tobias József and Mr Gergely Bárándy proposed amendments 1 and 14 of the resolution proposal. It is proposed that the provisions of Section 4 of this Article should be deleted. The motion includes H/132/7. Amendment No 14 which was also proposed under Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. Initiates the withdrawal of the article. In view of the intention to leave, a simple majority is sufficient. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, H/132/5. Amendment No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 49 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Now, according to Jobbik's request, H/132/7. István Apáti and Gábor Staudt have tabled this amendment. In view of the intention to leave, a simple majority is sufficient. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of Jobbik, H/132/7. Amendment No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes in favour, 132 against and 23 abstentions. H/132/4 Mr Tobias József and Mr Gergely Bárándy, in amendment No 9 They're suggesting that you leave the section. A simple majority is sufficient to maintain the proposal, subject to abandonment. The continuation of the motion precludes H/132/6. Proposal 1. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether, at the request of the MSZP, H/132/4. Amendment No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 128 against and no abstentions. H/132/6. István Apáti and Gábor Staudt tabled an amendment to Amendment No 9 Section 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 133 against and 25 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As Parliament has not maintained any of the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept H/132/12. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 128 votes to 23, with 30 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the resolution proposal is accepted by H/132/16. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 128 votes to 53, without abstentions. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, The final vote and the decision to amend the bill on the amendment of certain laws in conjunction with the Act on the listing of the ministries of Hungary follow. Independent motion by Mr János Lázár and other Members T/135. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/135/10. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate, T/135/11. Available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee submitted a single proposal, which was proposed by T/135/14. You can also get to know me on the website. Dear Members, Women and Members, Gentlemen! Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the MSZP and Jobbik Group proposed to maintain certain amendments which were not included in the summarised amendment proposal. These initiatives are T/135/12. and 13 are available on the network. That's what we're gonna decide first. Dear Parliament, T/135/4. in amendment No 55, Mr Tobias József and others under Rule 55 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 54/A of the Public Service Officials Act. § 3 and 4 and Article 54/B The Commission will initiate the withdrawal of §8 of the Act. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment on the basis of the request of the MSZP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 128 against and 1 abstention. T/135/5. Amendment No 59 by Mr Staudt Gábor. Article 224 of the Law. Paragraph 4 is amended. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote. [[Vote.]] amends paragraph 1 of this Article. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this amendment on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 133 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As Parliament has not maintained any of the amendments, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/135/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 128 votes to seven, with 47 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. According to the fundamentality provisions of the bill, Articles 22 and 23 shall apply. A qualified majority decision is required for the adoption of the Articles. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the qualified majority of the bill in T/135/14. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the qualified majority of the bill by 128 votes in favour, 29 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the bill's part of T/135/14. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the simple majority of the bill by 128 votes in favour, 30 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the notary of the Parliament will follow. János Pócs, notary, has resigned from his duties as notary today. Allow me to thank the notary, Mr János Pócs, for his work so far. During the five-party negotiations to prepare for the inaugural meeting, it was agreed that the Fidesz Group would propose to fill this notary. At the initiative of Mr Antal Rogán, the Speaker of the House, Mr S/150. The Parliament proposed that Mr. István Tiba be elected as a member of the Parliament. A proposal for amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official individually and without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect István Tiba as notary of the Parliament. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected Mr. István Tiba as notary by 180 votes in favour, not by vote and without abstention. Congratulations on the election of the new official of the Parliament, honourable Member, honourable notary, I wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on changes to the person of committee officials and members. The Speaker moved by the Fidesz Group S/151. He made a personal proposal. Please, notary Lajos Szűcs, present the speaker's motion. Mr. Messenger!
u2014-06-02-54	Dear Parliament, The President of the Parliament proposes that László Vécsey, Vice-President György Balla, Zsolt Szabó, replace Bencé Tuzson and Jenő Manninger as Vice-President of the Commission László Horváth, replace László Vécsey, Zsolt Tuzson as member of the committee, and István Jakab as a new member of the committee, replace László Balla György; in place of Vice-President Tamás László on the Committee Committee for Committee Vice-President Lajos Szűcs, in place of Lajos Szűcs, Tamás László, member of the Committee; replacing Mr Attilát Németh, Chairman of the Committee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Róbert Zsigó, Vice-President Vilmos Zsigó, as Vice-President of the Commission Mihály Balla, in place of Mr Richárd Hörcsik, as member of the Committee of the Committee, by Róbert Vilmos Zsigó; in place of Balázs Győrffy in the Committee on Agriculture, Mr Font, Chairman of the Committee, Sándor Font, Mr Balázs Győrffy, member of the Committee; in the Committee on Sustainable Development, Vice-President Zsolt Becsó replaced János Bencsik as Vice-President of the Commission, Jenő Manninger as Commissioner Éva Bartos, and Béla Dankó as a new member of the Committee; in place of Vice-President Roland in the Economic Committee, Erik Bánki, Gyula Vantara, in place of Vice-President L. Simon László, instead of Erik Bánki, Roland Mengyi, and Gyula Vantara, instead of L. Simon László; in place of Vice-President Béla Dankó in the Committee on Justice with effect from 7 June, Judit Czunyiné Dr. Bertalan, Vice-President Zoltán Demeter, Commission Vice-President Zoltán Kovács, Dr. Judit Czunyiné, instead of Zoltán Kovács, Mr. Zoltán Demeter, Member of the Committee; in place of Vice-President Gábor Törő in the Committee of Culture, László Kucsák, Vice-President of the Commission, instead of László Kucsák, Gábor Törő, member of the Committee; In the Committee on Enterprise Development with effect from 7 June Gábor Bányai Elemér replaced Vice-President Ákos Kara, Vice-President Attila Gelencsér, as Vice-President Kristóf Szatmáry, Attila Gelencsér instead of Bence Tuzson, and Gábor Bányai, instead of Ákos Kara, as member of the Committee for Elementary Committee. [[15.50]]
u2014-06-02-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The proposal is decided with one decision, without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether S/151 will accept it. House president's motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] According to their decision, the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Allow me to congratulate the elected Commission officials and members and wish them success in their work. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would remind you that, following the request of the Jobbik Group, the Parliament has already conducted the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/10, which initiated the amendment of Act T/10 to abolish the immunity of its representatives. The debate on the inclusion of Bill No. 1 in the series of articles. Now it's time for the vote. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I ask you, will you be included in a series of subjects, Mr Gábor Vona and Mr President Novák T/10. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] By 19 votes in favour, 158 votes against, without abstention, Parliament did not include the bill in the series of articles. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. I declare that Mr Attila Mesterházy informed the President of the Parliament this afternoon that he had resigned from his duties as Head of the Group. We thank you, Mr. Fraction Manager, for your work. Until the election of the new faction leader, Mr József Tóbias Deputy Group Leader shall manage the MSZP fraction. I wish the Deputy Head of the Group good health and good luck in his work. [[It's a rare applause.]] I am now ordering a two-minute technical break, and we will then continue our work with a general debate. Thank you very much. (Short pause. The notary seats are occupied by Attila Móring József and Erzsébet Schmuck.) Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Please take your seats. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXXIX on the local governments of Hungary follows a series. Act 3, Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors and Act XXXVI of 2013 on the Election Procedure General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Alderman Antal Rogán, Fidesz, and other Members have a separate motion T/146. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that, before the agenda was adopted, the Parliament decided to enter into an urgent hearing. [[Noise.]] Honourable Members, Those who have something to discuss with each other must do it out in the hallway because they disturb the work. I would like to inform you that Mr Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congressman, you have a maximum of 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I probably won't take all 30 minutes. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to comment not only as a representative of the Parliament, but also as the mayor of Csepel and a member of the current Metropolitan Assembly on the bill for the transformation of the municipal electoral system. The capital of Hungary is Budapest according to the provisions of the Fundamental Law. Our capital city is of particular economic, cultural, political and social importance in the life of the country. Budapest consists of districts, so its municipal system is two-tier. The Demszky era between 1990 and 2010 and the exercise of power based on liberal-socialist pacts have clearly shown how badly the Budapesters have suffered because of the bad operating system of the assembly elected on the party basis. Although the relationship between the districts and the capital has been greatly improved over the past four years, with clear winners being the citizens of the capital, there are still systemic problems that need to be resolved. At present, the two levels of the metropolitan municipal system are still sharply separated, resulting in unjustified costs and poor operating practices, many problems in everyday life. Thus, the most important element of our bill is the transformation of the composition of the Metropolitan Assembly, the integration of the mayors of the metropolitan districts into the general assembly, which makes the governance of the capital more democratic, simpler, more efficient and cheaper. Our intention is to improve the new rules already apply to the autumn municipal elections. The essence of the transformation in Budapest is that the member of the Metropolitan Assembly will be the mayor of the 23 district and 9 representatives from the compensation list in the future. Currently, the metropolitan lists are drawn up by the individual nominating organisations, in which voters have no say, and candidates who have not personally and directly made themselves known to voters can be added to the list. Members of the Metropolitan Assembly will be able to obtain seats in two ways from now on. The Metropolitan Assembly will be a member of all metropolitan district mayors who will be elected directly by voters, as well as the also directly elected mayor, and nine additional representatives can obtain mandates from the capital compensation list. [[16.00]] The mayor's candidates and mayor's candidates may be included on the compensation list, namely those organisations who have been able to appoint mayors in at least 12 districts. Thus, the list will have the votes of candidates for mayor who have not won a mandate. The mayor's election will continue to be direct. With this amendment, the system will become more democratic, because the Metropolitan Assembly will not consist of parties, but of those who have already been decided directly by the Budapest electorate in some form. This is also about the unification of the municipal electoral system, as in Budapest, as in the rest of the country, there will be a body for which candidates can be voted personally. [[Dóra Dúró: To Viktor Orbán.]] Dear Parliament, As I mentioned at the beginning, not only will the new system be more democratic and uniform, but also simpler, more efficient and much cheaper after the autumn municipal elections. It will be easier to choose, because instead of the four ballot papers formed in the previous elections, people in the capital will have to fill out only three ballot papers, just like the people in other settlements in our country. The planned new system is also more effective than the old one, because in the two-tier Metropolitan Municipality, the two levels are no longer separated, but the Metropolitan Assembly will be the ground for the coordination of district and capital interests. By integrating district mayors into the Metropolitan Assembly, a democratically elected forum may be set up in which the interests of the capital as a whole and the individual districts can conflict with each other in a regulated manner, and which may be a suitable venue for resolving such disputes. With this, the Metropolitan Assembly will be able to serve the capital's general population interests much more effectively. In addition, this amendment makes the wasteful municipal system in Budapest cheaper. As a member of the Capital Assembly, mayors who have been integrated into the Capital Assembly are proposed not to accept fees, reimbursements or other allowances. This way there will be at least 23 less paid politicians in Budapest. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What luck!]] We believe that on this basis, the Metropolitan Assembly will not be the cemetery of the party cadres of the socialists, the Gyurcsányists and the championists who have fallen out of or never entered the parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik and MSZP factions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Before the changes were announced, we consulted the opposition groups and adopted a number of their proposals, but we are also awaiting further improvements during today's parliamentary debate. [[Zoltán Lukács: Say the reduction of the rent.]] In fact, this morning, the Association of Budapest Local Governments, the BÖSZ also met, where 20 mayors from the metropolitan district attended and discussed the bill before us. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Fidesz, right?]] At the end of the debate there was also a vote, and with 19 yeses, no votes against, with 1 socialist stay, the Budapest City Council supported the changes to the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us in order to make the municipal system cheaper, more efficient, simpler and more democratic. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-02-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has not met since the legislative proposal was tabled, so that it has not yet been able to establish its position. I will present the government's position at a later stage in the hearing of the bill. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Then let's adjourn.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions should be made for the first time only after the independent Member following the speech by the lead speaker. In this context, only one representative per group of Members and the first independent Member shall have the opportunity to comment. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Gulyás, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Given that my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, also gave the opinion of the Fidesz faction, I have relatively little to do. It is clear to what purpose this proposal was made, and it is clear that the two-level system of self-government, the operation of which several people in Budapest have expressed concerns from several political parties, intends to shift it into a single system. What I would like to do, however, are the points on the constitutionality of the proposal, because we believe that we would like to make even more clear the views of the pro-government groups in this matter, even if the opposition may not be particularly interested in these opinions. It is obvious that the districts are historically formed units in Budapest, in this sense the Metropolitan General Assembly, which is itself involved in the districts, could also be legitimate. However, this was not the aim, which is why the proposal provides 9 compensatory mandates for parties who can appoint a candidate for mayor in at least 12 districts. However, we did not find even the resulting partial proportion sufficient, so in my own name today I submitted to Parliament an amendment which makes it clear that the number of inhabitants of the metropolitan districts should be determined on 1 January of the year of election of the mayors and Members, and that the number of inhabitants of each metropolitan district should be divided by the number of inhabitants of the metropolitan district with the lowest population. And that gives us a ratio. Thereafter, the fraction votes generated in the metropolitan districts shall be multiplied by this ratio on the list in the capital city. In this sense, the compensatory list does not only allow fragments of districts of different sizes to appear on the list, but, in the event of the adoption of this proposal, the disproportionateness between districts and districts can be compensated for by the opposite effect of the compensatory list. I believe that this is not necessarily a well-founded constitutional concern that we have heard in recent days, which, in view of this, the opposition groups will be able to support this amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-02-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. The MSZP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, Mr Gergely Bárándy and Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. I would like to inform you that the two of you have 15 minutes together. I give the floor to Congressman Bárándy. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I think in itself, if one had listened to the speeches by its authors and by the Fidesz Prime Speaker, it could draw certain conclusions from this. Congressman Gulyás spoke only about what is not in the law yet, but he may be included with an amendment. So he pointed out a mistake - or inaccuracies, let me put it nicer - and did not repeat those nonsense, sorry for the wording that Mr Németh has just said in the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people have been hoping that there will be a little change in style at least, as in political style. Mr Németh's speech did not make that clear. And so there will also be a change in the way legislation goes, and unfortunately, this does not appear to be the case in this proposal. The fact is that we thought that President László Kövér's promise, that it would be different, that the new house rules might have made references to this, all of them would remain unfulfilled expectations. Some have said that everything that is possible in public law has already been redecorated, practically nothing else. The Constitutional Court, the courts, the State Audit Office, the Parliament, the referendum, the electoral committees, the Ombudsman were redesigned in their own image, and I might add more. We could, of course, end up in the municipal system. [[16.10]] Compared to this, we see the same situation as in the last four years: the public-law system is being redesigned according to current political interests. And we also see, ladies and gentlemen, that your imagination on the subject is inexhaustible. There was no substantive bill meeting for Parliament when we did not discuss proposals of this kind of public law. This was the parliamentary president's right to vote, such as the amendment of the four-fifth rule - and now this is the municipal law. Four years ago, if you remember, many people remember this, they also redesigned the municipal system, even moments before the elections. This meant, in effect, that the individual elected representatives had become more dominant than the listing system, compared to the previous system in the representative bodies. Everyone who knows a little about public law or politics or any such area knows that the list mandates, the list system, are always in favour of the smaller parties, and the larger parties, especially those who are in a block on a political side, and there the individual system is in favour. In 2010, everyone knew that this would benefit Fidesz, it was an open secret, and you redesigned it a few moments before the election. Then they made the rules where, for example, Budapest XIV. In its district, the party, which had 20 percent support at the municipal elections, could not form a faction. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, when you see and see in the parliamentary elections that the left and the Fidesz stand side by side, and I don't count Jobbik and the LMP for that, what reaction do you guys have? They are changing the voting rights system in such a way that, despite this situation, it is ensured that you will win the majority of the mandates in this body. You know, civil law knows something about damage to administrative authority. I must say, I am most sorry to say that what you are doing now and have done before, it is called a legislative election fraud, my fellow Members. What's the reason? Maybe that's the first question we could ask. Well, we have heard explanations from Congressman Rogán, from Congressman Kósa, from Congressman Németh about this. They basically refer to two things, one of which is not to be party politicians on the board. Well, my fellow Members, they say that they should not have such negative and bad opinions about themselves. My fellow Members who say this are, among other things, not Mr Kósa and Congressman Rogán, but, for example, Mr Németh, for example, is such a paid party barter, since, as I understand, you have lost the election in your single mandate and have entered the Parliament from a party list. [[Dr. András Schiffer's name. György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Do you consider yourself to be such a paid party cadet who needs to be disposed of? Or do you consider him to be the same paid party cadet, say, Secretary of State Répássy, so that I don't go further, because he's on the list too? [[Dr. Gergely Gulyás: Me too, me too!]] Or Prime Minister Viktor Orbán or Speaker László Fat? 'Cause if that's the case, then, I'm guessing, in the parliamentary elections, they're thinking of making some kind of amendment to the law so that they can't get party people into the National Assembly. To be honest with you, I don't consider party politicians to be a dehonesting term. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, you know what a depraved attitude it is when I do not consider the individual Member to be a party politician. I believe that - and I am willing to bet on anything with Mr Németh - at least two thirds, but probably a significantly larger proportion of people belonging to parties in the new system will be exposed to this new assembly. Because, Congressman Németh, I understand that you, at least I don't know that you or someone else will be running in Csepel, will be a fidesz politician. Right? Or am I wrong about that? As far as I know, in my district, the 16th. In the district, who is running for mayor, the Fidesz congressman becomes a Fidesz party member. Or am I wrong, fellow Members? [[Dr. András Schiffer: Independent, independent!]] That is why I think that such a distinction cannot be made between the two, so I believe that this argument, which you are saying on this subject, is quite simply not true, it is false, and it does not even correspond to a superficial argument. Is it cheaper, fellow Members? Well, the only thing I can tell you is that the system you introduced in the parliamentary elections, that fake parties received billions of dollars from budget funds as grants, is certainly exponentially higher than those 23 people's four-year pay. But I also think that the BKV's debt of nearly a thousand billion dollars will not be used to finance it, which will generate revenue here. You know, fellow Members, it is not about whether politicians get paid or not, but about politicians who are able to make decisions after which the public debt does not go up in the sky, as has happened to you, that there should be no misunderstanding, and where the capital does not find itself in the position in which you have just put Budapest. Well, so much for your arguments. There is still one point to consider, since Mr Gulyás has mentioned this. I'd be very short-talking right now. The reason why we are short-spoken on this subject is because I do not see the proposal yet. Congressman Gulyás has said something, and I would like to see it in writing. [[Dr. Gulyás Gergely: I've submitted!]] This will be the subject of a detailed debate, and we will discuss it in the Legislative Committee. One thing is certain that the bill that is now in front of this House, which we can now argue about, does indeed make the difference between the voter and the voter in terms of the value of the vote, which is unacceptable. It is not possible for a vote to be worth five times the vote of the other voter. Well, ladies and gentlemen, so much for public-law arguments. I give the floor to my fellow Member, Ágnes Kunhalmi, who gives an opinion on this proposal from a slightly different approach, that I, for my part, do not wish to see the Metropolitan Assembly being turned into a lobby for district mayors, or to be a lawyer. I think that this is a very bad direction, and it would be good to withdraw from this, and I sincerely hope that we will not carve this unacceptable proposal with amendments, but withdraw it at the same time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-02-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Kunhalmi has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-64	Mr President, Thank you very much, Gregory. Well, when we saw this suggestion, we practically lost our breath, and we didn't really know what to think. Although today there is a very, very important argument here, and this is math. You are afraid, fellow Members. My fellow Members, you are terrified that there are not enough people in Budapest. Fear, that's great, and fear brings out the worst of you, even though over the past four years, we have believed that there is no lower. Today, they are so afraid that the right-wing voters are running out in Budapest, because you, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, can count, too, in Fidesz, and you know very well that according to the results of 6 April, you are not enough in the capital. That's why, please, at the last minute, a few minutes before the election, the law is being amended in such a way that it will only benefit you. It is good to be aware of the television viewers and to be aware not only of Budapest, but also of all the inhabitants of the country that you are doing this for this reason. It is very inappropriate to call this a legislative amendment in this patinous and honourable House, it is quite simply election manipulation, and I would call it fraud. The will of the electorate will not prevail here. You know that very well, it will not work, it is a very disproportionate and anti-democratic system. But we are used to the fact that they are not concerned with the success of the country, not with the success and success of the voters and with the success of the Budapesters, but only with their own party interests. It's so you can win. Yeah, it's just, right now, there's a little bit more trouble in the country. Because if this law is passed by you, you will be freed from what I would very much protect your government from. [[16.20]] Because if Budapest is paralyzed by this bill, and by the logic of the system, if you put the mayors in the capital, then all that will happen is to make Budapest a battlefield of interest. Budapest will be paralyzed, and it will be inoperable. The problem is, please, that in this poor and incredibly mediocre country, Budapest, which is operating in an increasingly sluggish, somewhat old-fashioned way, is still the engine and soul of the country, and if it is also destroyed and destroyed, it will indeed cause very great economic and social damage to Hungarian people. We know very well that even Budapest's ability to generate GDP is reduced, the capital's ability to create jobs is reduced, not only the state services, but the quality of the services in Budapest is falling rapidly; if you are now due to your short-term political interests, just to produce before your own voters, and by administrative means you want to win the capital for yourself, because you know and are afraid that according to the results of 6th, you are not in math and you are not in electoral numbers, otherwise in the capital, you will certainly cause great damage to the country and to yourself, because you will be very difficult to complete the next four years with a completely ruined Budapest. If Budapest loses its role as an economic engine, and this political proposal will lead to this, they will put themselves in a very difficult position in the government. Budapest has been less and less successful in the past, and we are facing a slow, sluggish capital city, whose performance is decreasing at all levels. I find it very pathetic that metro 4 has been modeled and paraded in the past, which - almost all the inhabitants of Hungary know from Kiskunmajsa to Kazincbarcika that it is metro 4 - with all its fuss and success, but it is the story of the MSZP. I'm really sorry that you guys... [[Defiance, interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties, Jobbik and LMP.]] I have one question for you: why do you want to win the capital? You must understand by government that no matter how much power you gain for yourself, how Budapest performs, what Budapest's economic and social situation is, it affects what kind of school Kiskunmajsa will otherwise be, and indeed what kind of health institution in Debrecen is, just to think of one of the authors. Think about it, be reasonable, because it's gonna cause more trouble than any of you would think, by the way. And finally, I would like to tell you that Antal Rogán was talking about a cadaver cemetery. If your proposal is going to prevail, I would like to ask you if there is no possibility of [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] that, by the way, the Papcsák, who was sent by the Metropolitans in Zugló, or you, who had been sent by the Metropolitans in Csepel, would not be found on this compensatory branch by chance again in the capital, otherwise, because then it would be a cemetery. But this will be the capital's cemetery. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-02-65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Rétvári, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-66	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We listened with great interest to the sentence that Metro 4 is the story of MSZP in Budapest. I think that Gábor Demszky and a lot of people suddenly picked up their minds, but I think that if they didn't call the Mayor István Tarlós, they wouldn't be able to ride metro 4 until today. Although the costs were decided in previous cycles, in order to finish it, we were still two years or four years from the end of Gábor Demszky's time. We were finally able to complete this subway 4 investment here. [[Where's Demszky?]] However, the MSZP has a story from the Metropolitan Assembly or from its activities in the capital city, for example, the story of the nocical boxes was known precisely through the socialists of the capital, so they added their own. Why it is important to put party politics a little behind-the-counter with the presence of directly elected mayors representing the interests of citizens, as they will be able to put this interest in the front of party politics, is shown precisely by the MSZP's and SZDSZ's fight in the capital through cycles. After all, we have seen in many areas that one of the deputy mayors responsible for this area, who is, say, SZDSZ, who is responsible for financial affairs, and another, an MSZP, who is responsible for, say, one or another part of the city's operation as deputy mayor, how they got into political battles and pushed out very important investments for the development of the capital with years or even cycles. So, yes, this was an area of MSZ-SZ-SZ-A-G-G-G-G-G-G-G for a very long time. And the unbelievable sin of MSZP is that Gábor Demszky was indeed the mayor of Budapest for twenty years. A very good example of this is that you travel to large rural cities outside Budapest and have seen what some cities have brought out of themselves in 20 years, and Budapest has been able to achieve modest results compared to this. However, its potential, as a capital city, as a place where most GDP is generated, most personal income tax, most local business taxes would have flown into the municipalities, would have had much greater opportunities. There was a big prestige investment that Gábor Demszky wanted to spend all the money on, not finish it, spend money on it, that was metro 4 investment. And when, for example, the European Union said that it would not provide as much resources as Budapest's capital requested, it did not have any other plan to which this amount could have been spent with sufficient foundation, but suddenly they came together with this, that or that. I say this because after 20 years of the Demszky era, the Metropolitan Assembly and the politics of the capital needed a blood freshening, because the state that the MSZP and SZDSZ gave Budapest for twenty years was pretty miserable. Four years ago, we launched the cycle with a bill that touched the municipal system somewhat, with the half-life of the number of Members and politicians. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: It's the opposite.]] We also decided on the half-life of Parliament, but if you look back on it, Gyula Horn made much more profound changes in 1994 because he changed the system of the election of all the mayors, also softened up all conflict of interest rules. It was indeed a very large and persuasive amendment affecting all the governments of the country as a whole. Compared to this, it is much smaller and only the capital, one area of the capital, so not the district area, but the area of the Metropolitan Assembly, is affected by this amendment. I also think that even for those who are less interested in politics, there is an expression in capital politics that has always been heard after Metro 4, this is the capital fund distribution debate. When the interests of the districts and the interests of the capital were most culminated in conflicting with each other, what tasks the capital should solve from the tax revenues generated in the capital city, and what those that would end up in the districts, this debate sometimes lasted not only for weeks, months, but also the basis for the current budget planning, as it does not matter how the funds were distributed at the capital level. And that was just the tip of the iceberg, because obviously there were many other issues that were also transversal, but also district responsibility. The local mayors also asked for a say, as they also influenced their success, as citizens do not ask whether the parking, public safety or road maintenance task there is really a capital authority or district authority; or the sidewalk may still belong to the municipality, the district government, but the road bench is already the responsibility of the capital and one of them is renovated and the other not. There were a number of such small, tiny, tiny problems with the capital, which could not be answered quickly, from the allocation of resources to the road, so from the absolute extent to the total ordinary, hen-step-size problem, because this kind of opposition was made by the Capital Assembly or the capital and district authorities, which could not be resolved by the fact that at times one mayor was included and became a member of the Metropolitan Assembly, but this did not solve an institutional problem. This may have been a help to that district, since it was better able to represent district interests at the capital level, and besides the road and the sidewalk, the bench was renovated because they could harmonise these steps, but at systemic level it did not solve the problem arising from the conflict between district licenses and the capital's potential. Let us say that some of these debates have already been reduced because, by transforming the administration over the last four years, some of these authority powers or even some of the financial possibilities, such as institution maintenance, have been transferred to a state reservation. Government offices, district or district government offices have removed some of these problems from the shoulders of local governments, which is why there are so much fewer collisions, but this is nevertheless the result of the conflict between the capital and the districts. [[16.30]] There's got to be a way. Since the metropolitan municipal system exists, since this structure exists, from four to four years before the elections one year, half a year, the question always arises of how this can be resolved. Before 20 years, the irresolvability of this problem was justified by the fact that there were no two-thirds majority or that the two-thirds majority of MSZP-SZDSZ had been used for other purposes. Here in Parliament, there was no possibility of rethinking and resolving this. The fact that district mayors are thus included increases the legitimacy of the Members sitting there, as my colleague, Szilárd Németh, said very well in his expozee, because he has a direct responsibility here, he is directly elected, and people know their mayor much better than the members of the Metropolitan Assembly, where appropriate. So the relationship is more direct, the individual Members are more accountable, and the mayor sitting in the Metropolitan Assembly has a greater responsibility for not being able to pass on what he is now taking on, and I do so to the Metropolitan Assembly, he cannot say that the Assembly did not allow it, because he will be a member there, and he can influence the processes there. This does not change the fact that the Mayor will, of course, continue to be elected directly by the citizens, the Budapest voters. This will obviously lead to the direct election of the citizens of the Assembly with the highest licence. They are voting for members of the Metropolitan Assembly, not on a list, but through their mayor. What my fellow Member, Gergely Gulyás, has just brought about with regard to the amendment of the compensation system, is obviously multiplied by the number of people in each district, thus the proportionality requirement that my fellow Members have said is met with regard to the compensation list. And the fact that we are hearing the rumours of procedural errors again by the MSZP is that the system itself is repeatedly blamed for it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Fraud! The two are different, the system and the cheating are different!]] That they would probably be behind the autumn elections and not give the mayor, they would not give the majority of the general assembly, this reminds us of the debate that we have heard so many times about winning compensation, when even CNN's correspondent said that left-wing parties choose the general strategy of losers when they say that they are distorting the electoral system. The electoral system is not distorted, but the voters have sent a clear message to everyone. We have been sent before that we do have the structures that have not worked for twenty years, or rather I say that they have functioned badly, and that everyone had the need to make some changes, in that regard we do take the swallow of the matter, take the end of the work, and transform the things that both the former Mayor and the current Mayor, as well as the former Members of the Capital Policy or even citizens following politics, according to experts, created a wrong, faulty system, did not make the most of Budapest. We trust that the directly elected mayor, the directly elected mayors, together in the Metropolitan Assembly, can carry a much more effective policy in the following ways, as they have done so far. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-06-02-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the last two or three days, we have heard a great deal from the Fidesz MEPs, from Antal Rogán to Lajos Kósa. We've heard about saving money here, we've heard about how democratic this is, we've heard about how good this is for Budapest; we've heard about everything but what the truth is. In one word, you could have said that at the moment you do not need an opposition in the Metropolitan Assembly. They do not need the brakes, they do not need the counterweights, they do not need the opposition to be present as constructive opponents in the Metropolitan Assembly. That's simply the only reason. And in the course of today, what you say and what you can hear, you're just rushing your head. If I may, I'd like to respond to a few things. For example, Bence Retvári described in a very normal way what the Demszky era was like. He's right. All I have to ask you, Mr Retvári, is why you don't go to prison with Gábor Demszky and ask him who the people who destroyed the subway were who destroyed Budapest. Do you know why you're not going in? Because Gábor Demszky is not in jail! Because in the big count, you have not accounted for anyone in the last 24 years who, let's say, would have ruined Budapest. There was only one such thing, and you are supposed to be accounted for. No one has been held responsible, nothing has been investigated, for example, cases falling within the competence of the Metropolitan Assembly have been investigated, for example, that you have completed, for example, the renovation of the Ice Rink that started in the wrong construction, so that you knew it was a bad construction. They've finished, they've spent billions on it, there's only one thing you can't use the City Park Ice Rink for: skating! Everything else, yeah. Not this one thing. Then Szilárd Németh said a lot of things. I think he even showed restraint because I was waiting for him to tell me that this transformation was good, because from now on it will be the basis for reducing the rent by another ten percent in the capital. I could've used that. I think it's okay here. But I will ask Congressman Németh because he said so much that we wouldn't need party politicians here to start as an independent. Now, I'm gonna wonder where you're gonna go as an independent, if that's the case. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's a good idea!]] If it doesn't start in the colors of Fidesz, let's say in this system. These are burning questions, I'll tell you the truth. The system you guys came up with is more trouble. On the one hand, it is unconstitutional and, on the other hand, it makes the task of Members controversial and, on the third, it distorts the role of Fidesz more brutally than any electoral system to date. These are the three things that characterize this whole thing. The bill submitted is a kind of veterinary horse for Fidesz legislation, without exaggerating it can be stated that it is tasteless to change the rules of elections in the year of municipal elections, just a few months before the expected date of the elections and the full composition of the Metropolitan Assembly. The self-serving nature of the proposal is well characterised by the fact that the justification also contains facts which are quite simply absurd. The authors draw attention to the fact that, since voters have no say in the composition of the capital party lists, there are also people who are not qualified in the general assembly. If this procedure is objectionable, please inform me of the size of your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in the last elections, for example. [[Dr. András Schiffer: On the court!]] I would remind you that during the last 24 years, the Prime Minister has entered Parliament from a list in each election. So, as far as Parliament is concerned, they had nothing to object to, therefore, to the list system. Then why is it in the capital? Or you can go there and tell Viktor Orbán that you do not think it is good that he is sitting here in Parliament at the moment, going and measuring himself in every single case. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]] According to the experience of the last four years, the operational problems inherent in the two-level municipal system have been the result of differences in the interests of the districts and the Metropolitan Assembly, which in many cases are in conflict with each other. Bence Rétvári said earlier that there was a debate on the allocation of funds, what a debate there was on the allocation of funds. Do you know what kind of argument that was? Fidesz-fidesz debate! [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] The Fidesz mayor was arguing with the Fidesz Mayor, the Fidesz mayors. That was the debate. For the past four years, you have had an opportunity to be a majority in the Capital Assembly, a mayor supported by Fidesz, and you have not been able to take advantage of it. What did they do? They argued about how resources were shared between the districts and the capital, how duties and the like were shared. That's what your last four years have been about. It is not in one case that I myself have spoken among the walls of Parliament that the situation in which some Members of the Assembly are lobbying against the interests of the capital at the legislative level is a serious blow. The Fund Sharing Act, the case of parking revenues, the distribution of tourist tax, were, without exception, cases in which the individual district mayors came to a crossroads and usually decided in favour of their districts vis-à-vis the capital. Is this going to change now? Will they sit in the Capital Assembly and decide otherwise? The situation will continue to be the same, but it may become even worse, even worse. Perhaps you can improve so much that, at the moment, if you do this, the mayor's rights will be vacated as they are. There's gonna be a puppet sitting in the mayor's seat who won't be able to do anything to you. But I could mention the case of district and state-owned real estate on the lower bank of Buda and Pest, directly bordering with the Danube coast, where the individual mayors explained to us at night why it would be preferable for the districts to disposal these properties instead of allowing the capital to manage these areas in a uniform manner. [[16.40]] Therefore, the statement by the authors that the Capital Assembly will be able to serve the interests of the capital's total population much more effectively is not correct. The part of the justification which, I quote, calls for the abolition of the current wasteful metropolitan municipal system as an argument also makes me smile. Allow me to refresh your memory: as of 1 January 2013, you were the ones who voted for the mayor's remuneration corresponding to the ministerial salary and 90 percent of the ministerial salary for his alternates. There's enough of them, and we'll find five deputy mayors at City Hall. The six leaders earn more than 7 million forints a month, which may well be the joint allocation of more than all the other representatives. Thus, the argument to reduce the capital's spending is a mere demagogy. In case anyone doesn't know, the employees' allowances at the Metropolitan Municipality exceed HUF 5 billion this year's annual budget. It is absurd, therefore, that because 23 Members will not be paid, savings will be shown and everything will improve enormously. I don't think, by the way, that even if that were the case, the salary of these 23 Members would solve, let's say, the small debt of the BKV of 800 billion forints that you haven't dealt with in the last four years. These are all demagogic texts with which you might be able to stand up, you can say it in front of the public on TV, it will sound good, but it will be another question whether, when the municipal election goes down, these mayors will raise their salary, how cost-effective it will be, that they will only get the mayor's salary. We also find the provision of the proposal that, in the event of the use of municipal property for a maximum of 90 days, there will be no competition. The provision provides further scope for serious property loss abuses, which are no longer unprecedented in the practice of the capital and districts. To think only of recent events: last September the Budapest Capital Property Management Centre, the capital's own company, established that two V. district and one 2.5 ha XII. for district real estate, the purchase price is lower than the market price. The former Fülemile camp on the top of Svábhegy was purchased by Galina Investment, associated with Sándor Csányi, I repeat, by the trustee. According to his expert opinion, it is below market price. However, their unscrupulousness seems to know no bounds, nor do they even seem to give way to appearances, which is why provisions are being made to avoid at least formal competition. By amending the electoral procedure law, the 21-day deadline for the collection of recommendations will be shortened by four days, which is also clearly in the interests of parties able to bring significant financial and human resources together. So, overall, the bill before us affects both its professional content and its political message against a democratic system of procedures and institutions which is unacceptable and even repeated in the explanatory statement. I mean, let's just remember that when you guys changed the election law, what they referred to. They said, in the context of the Constitutional Court's decision, that the aim should be to ensure that voters have equal votes. In return, you can say that Fidesz is going against what you've said in the last four years, so there's a lot of things. Because how would the voters vote equal, let's say, in District I, where 20,000 voters will vote for a mayor or XIII. in a district with 118,000? There's a six-fold difference in the two cases. The vote of the voter who will vote in District I will be worth six times more. You think that's constitutional and normal? They referred to the need to change and to put out constituencies, because that was one of their main arguments. On the other hand, the ruling parties made the parliamentary mandate incompatible with the mayor's office; they argued that the local government lobby should not hang the legislation. And now in Budapest, Fidesz is making the lobby of the Budapest district mayors a regulation-making body. Because that's what's gonna happen. I don't understand that if you said something a year or a half ago, then I would look back and at least be a little ashamed of you about that, that's what we said, that was in our interest, and now we're saying that, because right now it's in our interest. So right now, it's in your interest to... Because it could even happen that in the event of a draw, this system will give you two thirds in the Metropolitan Assembly. Two-thirds of a draw close to a close result - this is indeed a good result, it is indeed something at which you can say that this is an acceptable price. They could have submitted that everyone would be able to run for office from now on, but only those who started in the Fidesz colours could enter the Capital Assembly. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] It would've been easier, then it wouldn't be a problem from here on out, we'd go ahead, test ourselves, no matter how much you're going to achieve, you could sit in the Metropolitan Assembly. Then tell me how it can exist in the country that a voter awards two mandates by one vote. Because at the moment you will receive two seats with one vote, once you will receive the mayor's mandate, and once you will be members of the Metropolitan Assembly. [[Zoltán Lukács: Like this, like this. That's right.]] And when, let's say, we have to vote in the Metropolitan Assembly for this mayor, and there will be a case against the interests of the capital and, say, the district, what capacity will he decide there, in his capacity as mayor or in his capacity as a capital assembly? Which one is it? What would voters want in which capacity to decide on this matter? These are all questions, and I say that if you thought these things through, you would find that there is only one possibility that Jobbik is offering you now, because we have tabled a legislative amendment proposal, this legislative amendment proposal is very important and simple, as is the case, what you have submitted, it will all be eliminated; one thing we have left in it is that there is no big problem, so that we do not have to collect so many recommendations in certain cities. But it is interesting here, too, that according to your proposal in Budapest, where there are nearly 2 million people, there is a need to collect 5,000 recommendations in Nyíregyháza, where there are 115,000 people and 2 thousand people. This, in fact, also maintains proportionality. And here I've asked you once how to say we're saving money, but what's stopping you from raising the mayor's remuneration from autumn. 'Cause they're gonna say we're gonna get a job in the general assembly, so raise our money. Then they will simply lift it because they say that they really do, how much work these people do. Then there's a very important one, the 13th. A conflict of interest rule. It is said that neither the municipal representative nor the external committee member may engage in activities which could undermine the public confidence necessary for the performance of his duties. What's this? What's this? [[Dr. István Apáti: What is this?]] So what do you mean, you can shake public confidence? It's nothing more than a rubber rule, which means practically anyone can be impossible if the Fidesz interests want it. They put such a thing into it without any specifics, but exactly what that means, who will be entitled to determine on what basis, there is no guidance in the law. In addition, they use a conditional method, so it will be sufficient to establish this suspicion, and on this basis a conflict of interest can be identified. You know, it doesn't even have to be encrypted here. So it doesn't have to be said that someone is suspected, but we don't tell them what kind of suspicion, just that he's guilty - as has been the case in the past - it doesn't have to be encrypted, it just needs to be levitated. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And you can say to anyone that it's incompatible. So I suggest you accept Jobbik's bill-modifying proposal. Believe me, the country is better off, so Budapest is better off, and let's stick to the old system. And then let's sit down and talk about it normally. [[The president's ringing again.]] How we can change. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2014-06-02-69	Mr András Schiffer, lead speaker for the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-06-02-70	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The state of affairs is very clear that neither Fidesz nor the lead speaker of the KDNP are in the Chamber anymore. This shows that you respect Parliament's debate just as much and consider it to be the same as the various rules of the game you have created. First of all, I would like to start by saying that, regardless of the quality of the proposal or its inadequacy, a few months before an election, changing the rules of the game is about as if FIFA suddenly changed the basic rules of the game, 10 days before the start of the World Championship. The situation is that when this comes up, you are very pleased to point out by 1994, when the two-thirds majority of MSZP-SZDSZ did indeed act in a similar way. [[16.50]] Some are nodding, only those who nod might want to comment on who were the loudest yellers in 1994 about what a nasty assassination is going on against Hungarian democracy. I'll help you. It was the Fidesz, the Association of Young Democrats, and Tamás Deutsch, in particular, who had the most loudly misplaced the bell that an ugly assassination against democracy was taking place. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not what they're called anymore. Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] When all that matters is that they are in a position of government or opposition, are they not ashamed for a moment? ! One more thing: it wasn't just 1994; it was 2010 when the same game was played. In June 2010, in the same way, a few months before the municipal election, the rules of the game were fundamentally overturned, so you could say that they lead to 2:1 against the false left. You're about to score the second goal. This is the second time you've broken the rules of pure competition. I'd like to say one more thing about this '94 reference. Do you really think that in the long term you can play that game in this country for you and for the others, that you can keep pointing to the dirt on the other side and washing one side's own? How long do you intend to feed people with this? There's a lot of things here that say it's cheaper. What makes this system cheaper? Is it so stupid for voters to think that the amount of fees that 30 or some of the metropolitan municipal representatives, the metropolitan assembly representatives, can even fix the BKK's budget? I'm sorry, but an eight-year-old citizen in Budapest knows that this is quite simply deception and deception. You're talking about a cadaver cemetery, and all you've done here in the second half of the previous parliamentary term is burying your own cadres. They created various fake jobs, played with different conflict of interest rules so that the falling Fidesz-KDNP cadres could be placed. They even made it last summer to change the electoral rules so that they wouldn't accidentally have to call for an interim election in single-member constituencies where they suddenly got a fake job with a fidesz cadre or an ambassadorial job and so on. So you come here to talk about a cadaver cemetery? Not to mention that you have continued the same practice in the case of the capital as the socialists have used it as a cadaver cemetery, so I think that perhaps silence would be clearer on your part. They referred to it, and Szilárd Németh referred to the fact that the capital city was inoperative because a dispute was heard from behind the walls of the city hall. Let's stop here for a second. I'll come back to that later on on on how the two-tier metropolitan self-government has otherwise destroyed and rendered the capital inoperable. The SZDSZ is dead, the MSZP is out of power in the capital city, yet there has been a fight over the past four years. Because, no, your different fidesz potentas were fighting with each other. It may not be MSZP-SZDSZ, but the various fidesz deciphers have fallen on each other, where appropriate, the press was loud from the exchange of words and letters between the Mayor and Dávid Vitézy, so nothing has changed in this respect. Gergely Gulyás, in his keynote speech, said that the amendment that he is proposing will strike the constitutional objections back. Well, I think Gergely Gulyás is gravely mistaken. The fact is that Article 35 (1) of the Fundamental Law reads as follows: " Local government representatives and mayors shall be elected by direct and secret ballot on the basis of the general and equal suffrage of voters in an election ensuring the free expression of the will of voters, in a manner defined by a cardinal law. " From this stage, the last turn will no doubt be damaged, you have two thirds again, so obviously you will also create this deviousness in a fundamental law. But let's look at the other two conditions. On the one hand, the election of the Metropolitan Assembly, the existence of the Municipality of Metropolitan City, has not yet been challenged, but I am still so afraid to say this, because even with an amendment before the final vote, it may be possible that this will also be done, and the Municipality of Metropolitan City will simply be abolished as such. But let's just say there's still a Capital City Council. Article 35 (1) applies to it, which says that it is a direct choice. Where's the direct choice here? The majority of the Metropolitan Assembly will be presented by mayors. So listen carefully. The point is that when the voter goes to the voting booth, in front of him, as Szilárd Németh said, there will be one less ballot, he will vote for a mayor, for example, in Csepel. When Szilárd Németh's head or name is on the ballot, he will choose a mayor in Csepel, not a congressman in Budapest. From now on, it is a legal fiction that Szilárd Németh will of course sit in - provided, of course, that the Csepelians ask for more - he will sit in the Metropolitan Assembly. But in the case of the Metropolitan Assembly, the principle of direct suffrage will be violated. This constitutional problem is not at all affected by Gergely Gulyás's proposal. But let's keep going. Is equality of suffrage violated? Yeah, he's hurt, and Gergely Gulyás's proposal doesn't hammer that out at all. What Gergely Gyuly says is that in terms of less than a third of the number of the Metropolitan Assembly, Vice-President Gulyás is indeed trying to address proportionality or disproportionateness between districts in some way. However, in the majority of the composition of the Metropolitan Assembly, the disproportionateness will continue. Downtown, District V, will delegate as much as, say, Obuda or Angelland. In fact, we could quote Ference Papcsák, according to his voice, the red crescent, so the outer districts will each have a delegation, such as the Buda Quarter or Downtown Lipot City. The fact is that equal suffrage cannot be discussed here from now on, as the Metropolitan Municipality, the majority of the metropolitan body of representatives, is not compiled on the basis of equal suffrage. And I am obliged to refer again to the frequency at which you change your views and what my fellow Member Szilágyi has just said. Why did you need electoral law? What was the fidesz argument? It was the fidesz argument that although the Constitutional Court, which, by the way, from the time the electoral law was also established, no longer had its decisions quoted, but the Constitutional Court also stated that there was an unconstitutional situation, since there was a difference in the number of the 176 individual constituencys that violates the equality of electoral rights. That's what you said when, based on Cubatov software, you created a new electoral law and calculated how 106 districts should be drawn. And now the dice have turned, and they're bringing up an amendment where this sensitivity to the population of the constituency is no longer present. The fact is that in the opinion of the Venice Commission in 2012 - I am talking now about the opinion that you always thought was important to quote, other opinions were less quoted and even yelled at about the attack on Hungary - it was also about what you wrote about equality in constituencies, but of course it was also about the expectation that the electoral law system would not change before the elections within a year. The opinion of the Venice Commission on the need to ensure that the principle of equal suffrage is not violated in the absence of a substantial difference between the number of voters, has been referred to by you. You have referred to this as well as the decisions of the Constitutional Court which have been sentenced to exorcism. To sum up, it can be concluded that Article 35 (1) of the Fundamental Law precludes this proposal on two points. And speaking of history, I think it is worth reliving for the strange summer of 1990 when the Hungarian Democratic Forum led by József Antall was about to submit a municipal bill, which would have been a return to the capital administration before the Stalinist system. This would have been about the fact that there is a single city core in Budapest, and the agglomeration is linked to it with a special public relationship. What happened? What happened was that in the summer of 1990 - we were past the Antall-Tölgyessy pact - the SZDSZ saw the Hungarian Democratic Forum leading the polls, it did not need a strong mayor next to a strong Prime Minister, and it prevented the local government law from being fulfilled in this way. [[17.00]] After that, the dice turned to autumn, the SZDSZ drew on this already completely lame capital administration system, but then you common, smart - fidesz, socialists, free democrats and MDFs - realized how good it is to maintain internal district governments. It is true that the dog doesn't have a district identity, he doesn't even know who the local representative and the local mayor are, but it's probably better that way, so you can turn the so-called district municipalities into real estate speculating businesses. Today, it is the district municipal system, this two-tier municipal system, which is the plague of cancer in Budapest, which is why Budapest cannot develop. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] For you, the two-thirds majority was enough for a lot of things, they were able to stir up a lot of things, but somehow, for some reason, they didn't have any interest in jumping into this two-tier capital self-government that disabled the capital. Speaking of subway 4, yes, metro 4 is one of the best examples of why the capital is inoperable; because various lobby interests are fighting with each other, and this amendment will amplify it. There will be a struggle between various district lobbying interests, and we are talking about districts, local governments, fictitious municipalities, behind which there really is no community identity. It is necessary to create a Budapest government, a strong government in Budapest, which reflects the will of voters and the voters of the capital. This proposal does not point in this direction. This proposal points in the direction that those parties will be the losers and those electoral communities that do not request either the orange rule or the Hagyó-Demszky period before 2010. That's why you put a system here where an LMP or a better voter in the winding-up will be worth six or seven of a Fidesz voter. This is why this system is disproportionate, since the whole compensation list structure, as it is before us, means that this system will benefit primarily from Fidesz, and secondly, obviously the reconstructive MSZ-SZDSZ coalition. Dear Parliament, This bill also contains other treats, such as the sudden opening of conflict of interest rules. What's the matter with you? I had to leave the law practice when the National Assembly opened, because the previous Parliament created such tough, strict rules of conflict of interest - and now it turns out that the members of the Parliament can re- row back to the body of representatives, as well as the principals of the school. There is little reason for this because the public education system has been nationalised and there is no direct maintenance link between the head of the institution and the municipality. In the case of schools, there is also a connection between "the god, the municipality and the public education institution, and in the case of doctors - who concludes the supply contracts? This system is about, in particular, the smaller cities and settlements, to cement the rule of the dodges, so a significant part of a body of representatives will depend on a particular person, a particular dodge. And the fact that " public confidence can be shaken'is here remains in this proposal is simply absurd. Who's gonna decide when public confidence in a congressman is gonna be shaken, maybe a subway 4 scandal? What does it take to talk about discrediting public trust? These rubber rules are only used to eliminate, where appropriate, the majority of the opposition representatives who do not like them. This proposal does nothing in this form but strengthens the momentary positions for Fidesz [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and tragically strengthens the negative effects so far of two levels of self-government in terms of the capital. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Mr Gábor Fodor, who is independent, who has expressed his wish to speak in writing. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-72	Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to express the position of the Hungarian Liberal Party in the debate of the law on municipal elections. Well, first of all, I would like to start with political arguments, because my fellow Members in the previous speeches, especially on the opposition side, rightly wondered what prompted Fidesz to present such a bill to the House so suddenly. It is worth examining this issue, and I think that we must first find political arguments. Later constitutional arguments, technical arguments relating to legislation are important, but political arguments are the most important ones that need to be clarified in a political debate. Well, I think the number one argument that brought this bill to us is fear. It is this political argument that has led Fidesz to submit a legislative amendment to this House. Fear of seeing the results of the elections, seeing their situation in Budapest and trying to achieve Fidesz success in the autumn municipal elections, distorted success, if necessary, or - as has already been said here in the debate from the previous speakers, many have mentioned it - will result in a two-thirds success in the elections in Budapest. Well, fear, we know you're a bad counselor. Therefore, I would like to protect the Fidesz, I would like to protect the majority of governments from going in this direction and amending the law on these aspects, because this will lead to a bad proposal. On behalf of the Hungarian Liberal Party, we consider this to be a wrong bill, something that cannot be supported, and we do not want to support it under any circumstances, even if we have an amendment to it, which I would like to say in a few words. Well, I don't think this political fear is enough to give us a bill while breaking the rule of law standards, first of all, that there is no time to normally consult, negotiate with the necessary civil society organisations and others about what they think about this, there is no time for that. On the other hand, the rule of law goes against the opposition's opposition to the opposition's essentially unanimous negative position by opposition parties. Of course, there is much to be done, the Parliament gives Fidesz two thirds of the opportunity to pass such a bill, but, fellow Members, it is worth thinking that once up and down. Of course, those who now have two thirds may not later have two thirds and will also fall victim to a bad political culture, which is now based, among other things, on wrong decisions and misconceptions. That is why I would like, for this reason, to protect you from going in this direction, and to maintain and support this proposal. In addition, it is an important political argument beyond what has already been mentioned, in addition to the fear and opposition to the rule of law standards, that we also need to examine whether the proposal that has come before us is in the interests of the people of Budapest, and I believe that it is not. It is in the interest of the Budapest people that the various party sympathies, the different party belongings, can also appear in the Budapest body of representatives. In such a situation, when district mayors will show the various political views in the Budapest General Assembly according to Fidesz's vision, will the diversity that Hungary has politically and politically? Obviously not. So it's against the will of the Budapesters what's happening. Of course, it will simplify the political formula, of course the flag stands for those - because it is no coincidence that Fidesz is trying to amend this proposal in this way - who, by the way, are driving according to public opinion polls. But that doesn't mean that they're the only ones present politically in this country, doesn't mean that voters all want to support Fidesz. On the contrary, we know that the majority of voters do not want to support Fidesz, and indeed the various smaller opposition parties must also appear in the Metropolitan Assembly, which expresses the will of the voters, which is in line with the principle of representativeness, which meets the expectations that have dominated Western civilisation and European values for centuries. This perception, which now appears, is not for this purpose, will not represent the people's representation with sufficient representation at the Metropolitan Assembly. On the other hand, it is also not fit to display the will to vote, because what will come from this bill? Yes, it is, fellow Members, which has already been pointed out among the walls of this House that Budapest will be an empire of rival small kingdoms. [[17.10]] After all, a district mayor, if he is given a mandate in the Metropolitan Assembly, will, of course, represent his district, his constituents, not represent a capital level, but wants to meet his constituents at the district level. This will tear Budapest apart. It's not in the interest of the Budapest people to have a broken city around us. I do not think that Budapesters would want small kingdoms, which are essentially capable of cutting each other's throats, to fight in the Metropolitan Assembly at any time. Therefore, on the part of the liberals, we would like to present the City concept that has been around us for years, even decades, as an amendment to this law. In front of me, my fellow Member, András Schiffer, did not say the same thing, but said something similar. I think it is time that if we want to make a substantial change to the local government system in the capital, then we should go back to what the liberal Fidesz and liberal SZDSZ represented in the 1990s, and this is the City concept, which means that we treat the inner districts as a whole and give the outer districts a relative autonomy. This would help to solve the problems of the local government that we have already discussed in the debate, and it would not be a pretend solution, and it would not be as politically unacceptable as the current proposal. Well, I mentioned that we also have a separate proposal submitted to the bill, an amendment, and this is intended to amend it so that we can go back to the method of plural nomination, as in the national elections. It is not justified, moreover, that in this proposal voters can make only one recommendation, one nomination, and this can be abused. Let's not forget that this may be a fraud option in the election, because for example, if you first publish your list, there is a name on it, then there are the following parties, or there may be a name on these lists, because you could well write it, but you can also assume that you can write it wrong-intentionally, yes, it will put the following parties in an impossible position, so I would like to draw your attention to this specifically. While I am fighting for the adoption of our own proposal and also raising my voice, I would, of course, like to make it clear that, overall, the proposal is unacceptable to us. We believe, even while adopting our own proposal, that it sets out political directions that we cannot accept. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-06-02-73	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, for two minutes.
u2014-06-02-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to comment on two things that Gábor Fodor has just said. One is that this issue of plural recommendation is not justified in the first place, if a rule applies in the parliamentary and European elections, then why is it not valid in the municipalities. I would also like to say that, in the previous term, the LMP supported in the debate on the electoral law any solution capable of expressing secondary or multiple party preferences. What was a problem in the parliamentary election campaign is not in itself the plural nomination, but the infinite number of nominations, together with what Gábor Fodor mentioned, obviously we can support. However, I would like to refer you back to what Szilárd Németh has been saying, that those on the list are actually party soldiers. Of course, he received very witty tips from the Jobbik faction on how he or she himself, Secretary of State Répássy, or others, or even the Prime Minister, came here. But what is really important: also in the debate on the electoral law, the LMP had a proposal - perhaps three years ago - to allow voters to express their individual preferences in the list vote. So if Szilárd Németh believes that the listing system today favours party soldiers - obviously speaking from experience - then why doesn't he support, let's say, the LMP proposal not only here, in the municipal or capital elections, but also in the parliamentary elections, so that voters can interfere in the composition of party lists? At present, the Metropolitan Assembly is the only place where party affiliation, party preference, can appear in proportion. If the problem is that the lists are compiled by the party centers, then I ask that you be brave and support our idea that voters can influence the composition of the lists either in the parliamentary or in the municipal elections. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP. Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2014-06-02-75	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-06-02-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have also heard from you that you have consulted the opposition. I'd like to ask you who was consulted, because we, say, didn't. If they had consulted, we might have told you. Nevertheless, we do not say that this current system is good. Indeed, what was heard here in a sentence or two, there are maladministrations that do not matter, for example, in Budapest, where the wind blows in the fall, so it doesn't matter where the leaf falls, for example, because within ten meters it might belong to someone else's job to sweep it up or clean it up, so there are such things. But there's a lot of other things about parking and stuff. Most importantly, you do not need a constructive opposition. If you look at it and someone followed the local government work of the last four years in the capital, you can see that Jobbik clearly acted as a professional and constructive opposition. We tried to help in everything, and we took into account the interests of Budapest in everything. But you don't need that either. Let me just give you an example. In the previous system, in the Demszky-éra, according to the decisions of the Public Procurement Committee, the Budapest General Assembly paid a penalty of HUF 6 billion to various companies, based on court judgments in general. Six billion forints! Over the past four years, the Public Procurement Committee has a better committee chairman, and the capital has had to pay just six billion less in this four-year term, zero, or zero forints. So not only are politicians who, say, where appropriate, are suggested by Fidesz, so let's say, Szilárd Németh in fidesz colors, it's not certain that he's just a good professional. There are local government experts in this country who may not be able to test themselves and receive the voter's trust, because they do not have as much, let's say, in the media, there is no financial opportunity behind them as you do, and professionally they are able to act in the interests of the capital. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-77	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, Jobbik, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-06-02-78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, A bill, I think, says a great deal when we look at the circumstances of its birth and the circumstances of the birth of the law itself, because we have no doubt that, in this time until the final vote, there will be no fundamental changes to this proposal, even if Gergely Gulyás has tabled an amendment to this proposal. If you were serious about making the operation of the capital city, the functioning of the Municipality of Budapest, the General Assembly more efficient, cheaper and democratic, you would have called for a five-party consultation, recruited experts, and put forward to the House a position at the end of such a series of discussions, which is thoughtful, really based on an overview of the operation of the last 24 years, and you would have tried to present to Parliament the answers to specific cases or general difficulties that have been brought up there, with the involvement of those involved, once again, of this law. But that's not what happened. Then what happened? On 6 April there was an election, there was an election in Budapest, there was a result like that, and in response, the system will be transformed in such a way that the Fidesz will be able to obtain a majority in the capital and preserve the role of political leader there as well. There has been so much deception here about cheapness, efficiency and democracy that I would like to respond only to the lies that we have read here in the general statement of reasons, and we have heard from the speakers. The fact that the role of individual candidates has also been appreciated in the parliamentary elections and that the votes given to the mayors in the capital are now being evaluated in this way is a complete mistake. CHAPTER XX From the second half of the 20th century onwards, it was clear that the parties dominated democracy, not only decision-making - it is also quite clear, because we vote according to factions here in the Parliament, and obviously the Assembly does not function differently - but also the 21st. This is quite clear in the first century. [[17.20]] Or if you don't think so, please explain the phenomenon we experienced in the Lenti-centred constituency of Zala County, for example. Member László Pintér has entered one of the elections in this constituency, in the colours of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, reaching 2,56%. The Fidesz candidate won the election. Then, in a later election, MEP László Pintér took off in the colors of Fidesz, in the same constituency, and reached 53.41 percent. The same man in the same constituency, only in a later election, in the colors of another party. I think that this example, which happened here in Hungary with your former groupmate, clearly shows that people today choose a representative not on the basis of individual abilities, but on the basis of the party that dominates their decision the most. We can look at this from another point of view: how many constituencies have significant differences, such as, in parliamentary elections, between the number or proportion of votes cast on the party list and the proportion of votes cast on individual candidates? There are very few constituencies where either one or the other shows great differences in terms of numbers. It is clear, then, that this tale that has been told about the election of the mayors here, that people will not put party cadets in the Metropolitan Assembly, is simply not true, but you are obviously aware of that. Gergely Gulyás, the current lead speaker of Fidesz, in the debate of the electoral law three years ago, talked about how much no account should be taken in a democracy of how cheap the operation of an election system or democracy itself could be, since the cheapest would be the one-party system, and indeed, this argument now, when it comes to you, is argued with this inexpensiveness, and when it did not come to you, they argued against cheapness in favour of democracy. This shows this two-faced and double standard, which has been and is being applied in the process of creating electoral systems. If 23 mayors are to sit in the Metropolitan Assembly, this will allow policy considerations to be removed from the spotlight at all, even from the background. Obviously, it is not a matter of creating laws on a territorial basis either, so that, in the course of the legislative process, it is not quite simply relevant where the representative lives, which area he represents, for example, because the Public Education Act applies to all schools in the country, but we could mention other sectoral laws. Lawmaking takes place on a political basis. It clearly has a role to play in the budget, but let us not confuse, in the case of the capital, the role of the local government, tasks and the otherwise policy-based operation and policy-based decision-making of the general assembly. And this system doesn't focus on that at all. Since 2010, you have had the opportunity to change the Metropolitan Assembly and make it more effective. In 2010, when Jobbik raised the problem of political job accumulation, we did not hear from you at all how expensive it is, for example, that a Member of Parliament is also a mayor and, where appropriate, a Member of the Budapest Assembly, because there was an example of this, there was no problem that a Member had taken three salaries for a job that he had not otherwise done. Now, with these arguments, which are also penniless in the life of the Metropolitan Assembly, the 23 representatives are trying to make this bill look cheap. With regard to the issue of fallen MEPs, cadastral cemeteries, it should therefore be said that, as a result of the reduction in the number of staff, most of the Members are from the Fidesz ranks. So, in terms of number, your faction has fallen to the greatest extent, most of the outliers are in the Fidesz. So if there is any suspicion that they might want to place their representatives, which was also a very important aspect of the banning of job accumulation in Fidesz, they have openly confessed that the Members so far must now be placed somewhere, and that is why the ban on the accumulation of jobs comes in handy for you, we can also talk about this in this case. So this argument is mostly true of Fidesz, where most people should be placed. It is very interesting that, in connection with the transformation of the recommendation system, for example, it is mentioned here that a penalty should be paid for unreturned referrals, even for empty referrals, if not returned by nominating organisations within a specific deadline. We still do not know that, on the one hand, these fake parties did not pay back the penalties for the vast majority of non-reimbursable referrals in the parliamentary elections. So it can be written in a bill, it can be described in the law that yes, half of the minimum wage is payable per recommendation sheet, or in this case 10,000 HUF, but about who will repay this, the nominating organisation, or who is responsible for this, is still not told. And even before the parliamentary elections, we suggested that at least the amount of government support would be deducted from the amount of debt that a fake party accumulates through non-rewarding of the recommendation forms. But they didn't accept that either. So what happened? The fact that a fake party has not returned its recommendation sheet cannot necessarily be recovered, if it ceases without a successor, has no assets, then paff, we cannot collect the penalty for the recommendation forms on anyone - we also suggested that it should also have a personal responsibility, this proposal has not been accepted either - but we have also allocated state aid to these parties in full. It would therefore have been reasonable to collect the fines for the recommendation forms at least in such a way, on that particular State aid, but this did not happen either, and this proposal does not settle in the future who is responsible for the recommendation form which is not returned to the nominating organisations. So on the subject of conflict of jurisdiction, I would like to mention this last. They recognize problems, of course, and they see that there is something to be done about conflicts of jurisdiction, but that is not an answer. The introduction of mayors into the Metropolitan Assembly at the time will not solve the problem of conflicts of jurisdiction, but the fact that someone has a capital assembly identity and, let's say, put Budapest's views first into the background, I could also say that it will cease to exist. A congressman who is mayor can achieve his re-election by re-election as mayor. In this sense, there will be virtually no metropolitan assembly quality. He will not relate to the logic of the Budapest general meeting, he will only be mayor, because he will be re-elected when he becomes mayor again, so local affairs and local lobbying will be further strengthened by this proposal. This is why it is wrong to say in this respect that this is how the conflicts of competence will be eliminated - not just the lobbying that has already hindered the functioning of the Budapest General Assembly will be strengthened. Overall, what is stated in the explanatory statement is that this will be cheaper, more efficient, simpler and more democratic, virtually none of these will be true. It is only from the circumstances of the birth of the bill that there is once again an actual policy legislation, which is adapted to the current election result of Fidesz, its own political interests. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-79	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will give the floor to Mr György Szilágyi, MP Jobbik.
u2014-06-02-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. So to sum it up, so that they can't twist our words, because they do that a lot, and they don't tell us what else we said. At the moment, we say that indeed, in Budapest, this two-level local government, alone in the country, is not the most appropriate municipal system. Indeed, Jobbik would also be open to finding a sensible solution, to sit down, to involve civil society organisations, to involve the municipalities, to involve the government offices you run, to everything, and to create a law that best seeks to comb together, to bring together those powers, resources, resources, powers that now represent conflict points between the capital and the districts. [[17 .30]] We're open to one of these, and we could have done that in the last four-year cycle, because we could have sat down and changed it by now. What we are not open to is this amendment of the law, which does not serve - as many here have said - to make something better, not to reform something, but simply to give you greater power in the Capital Assembly. And there are a lot of negatives to this submitted legislative amendment proposal. Once again, I would like to ask you not to look at loss of prestige or no loss of prestige if you withdraw this law. Retract, look at the interests of the Budapest people, look at the interests of the capital on this issue. Cancel this bill and really initiate multi-party negotiations, involve civil society organisations, sit down together, try and improve local government in Budapest, change it, reform it, but do not try to make the capital a sovereign and operate as a one-party system, because in my opinion they want to go this way, but some of their representatives may also be invited to erect statues in the capital. It will also be simple, because on the basis of this bill, you will be able to do so. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-81	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that five Members on the screen and now four Members have indicated their intention to speak within a 15-minute time frame, but before that, a two-minute comment will be made by Mr András Schiffer, Mr Group Leader, LMP.
u2014-06-02-82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue what Congressman Szilágyi has suggested. The capital's real problem has been two levels of self-government for 25 years. This makes Budapest undeveloped. And while you're talking about leaves, there's a much more live example. When the problem of illegal sales in Fővám tér is raised by traders, if these illegal vendors move 100 meters, that's IX. the problem of district government, if they stop where they are, of the Metropolitan Municipality, if they take a few steps in the other direction, it belongs to the V. district municipality. And then we didn't even talk about great improvements. This town is out of order. If it is that you, by a two-thirds majority, would attempt, by a two-thirds majority, otherwise passing on a mandate, even by breaking your own internal interest groups, repairing Budapest, the LMP would also be a partner, but then talk about it. And indeed, if you were to initiate a five-party discussion on how to make Budapest operational after 25 years, we would certainly be partners, because that is in our interest, it is in the interests of all Budapesters. But this would require a local government, a strong local government in Budapest, where the electoral will is pro rata, and a local government in Budapest that represents the interests of the people of Budapest, and so-called district self-governments specialised in real estate speculation should be abolished and returned to the model before 1950. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-83	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Dezső Believer within a 15-minute time frame, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I never thought that in 2014 we should ask for the floor in Hungary in order to try to ensure that voters enjoy the same rights in a municipal election. But it happened. A bill has been tabled, which I consider to be well prepared and well designed. We need to look at the motive for this thorough consideration. His motive was to create an opportunity for Fidesz to establish his reign in the capital for the next period. If that was the goal, then they tried to prepare it in this way, so if you look at the intention, then I think it becomes obvious that this is a gender-based intention. The bill itself is not well prepared. I think that whoever wrote this does not know the local government and does not know the operation of the Metropolitan Assembly. My first comment on this would be about operation. It would be nice to hear how this will work in the coming period if the Budapest Assembly was elected on the basis of this bill. There's a mayor, the mayors of the districts are sitting inside, and obviously the deputy mayor is coming out. I suppose it's a very good idea, then you can save more money. Or are they going to be committee presidents and members of the committee? Are you sure you've thought about how this board is going to work? Are the mayors who have been authorized to represent them in their constituency, in the districts, to represent the interests of the whole of Budapest? I think there's been some serious confusion with the proposal. My second point is that it has already been said a few times in the debate that there have been imbalances that are unmanageable. It is very difficult to imagine that the votes of the people of Lipótváros, on one side of St. Stephen's Boulevard, are worth just four times as much as those of the new Lipótváros on the other side of St. Stephen's Boulevard, or those of the angelic lands. How can this be explained? How will voters appreciate this? I think it creates an impossible state. I have also sensed that Fidesz is trying to improve this in some way, but I think that without a complete overview of the whole complex, this could result in a false solution. It has been said that this is a new democratic, direct choice system. I believe that this is a blessed democratic system and that it does not provide a real choice for voters. The law is wrong as it is. My suggestion is to withdraw this. And I will fight in the coming period to ensure that citizens living on both sides of St. Stephen's Boulevard have the same rights. And I'm not just talking about the left-wing voter, I'm thinking about the XIII. Fidesz voter living in the district, so that he doesn't have the fifth right as the Fidesz voter on the other side of St. Stephen's Boulevard. I'm asking you to withdraw this. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-85	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-06-02-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to call upon the rapporteur, the nationalist still present, and the representatives of the government in general, to enter into a substantive debate with us, because it is quite strange that Gergely Gulyás has long since left the meeting room, where Antal Rogán sits halfway here, where he is pressing his phone, and the rezsi-Rambo has long since vanished. Who do we argue with? The government said that it had not yet been reviewed, or that the representative of the government present could not give a government opinion or a government position. Then again, we're talking about empty, almost empty or empty benches and walls. There is a great deal of trouble with this bill, which has already been substantially listed or mentioned by the speakers before me. We miss honesty, it's one of the many problems, or perhaps one of the greatest. If they had written in the justification that they wanted to prevent the return of the left, the further strengthening of the left, or even the formation of the left-wing majority, then, of course, this can be classified in one way or another by the taste of one's mouth, but at least it would be honest, because that is practically all this story is about, nothing else. On the other hand, there's a rather shady provision here, or a weird shady one hidden in a long provision, and that's a modification of conflict of interest rules. That hasn't been mentioned, by the way. It is possible that it has less significance in the capital or in the metropolitan districts, although I am not sure, because only in the Mátészalka constituency in recent weeks there has been a number of places that have been heard that current Fidesz representatives, school directors, deputy directors, other educational institution leaders, doctors or simple teachers have been under serious pressure, or have come to the Fidesz Centre in the direction that you are now confronted with the fact that in 2010, you have, by the way, very rightly, incompatible with the mandate of local government representatives with the office of local government, and now, when after the parliamentary and EP elections, the orange fog begins to disperse somewhat from the brains and eyes of some people, you are confronted with the possibility of losing the mandate of local government representatives, because if you do get it, you have to decide that you want to remain representatives, and you will stand up from the school chair or vice versa. [[17.40]] It was rightly argued four years ago that, in several cases, it meant a serious conflict of interest, whether it could lead to such a split, an insurmountable conflict of self-discussion, if a person makes a decision on his own institution, even if it is an institution that is more governed by the state or taken over by the state, that he should make a decision on his own institution as a local government representative. By the way, I'm sure it could be anywhere from the villages to the metropolitan districts. And now, allowing this, I think, to be a very large number of lobbyists, this lobbying activity, they realized, unfortunately, that they did not have the number of people to replace these many school directors and deputy school directors in the various bodies, they would risk very many individual representatives in Hungarian, especially in cities over 10,000, expressing noble simplicity and bad Hungarianism, undoing the whole thing, and they say again that these posts are not incompatible. A simple example, a direct example: In the case of Mátészalka, virtually the fidesz majority, as it is, would disappear, as a very significant part of the current individual Fidesz MEPs, I count in mind, at least half or perhaps more than half of them are school principals or vice principals. Not to mention an interesting conflict of interest - although it may be a problem in practice at mayor level - the case of doctors. Because perhaps another representative position, at least in a small settlement, can be treated as a doctor without any problems, but so far it has been a big problem if someone is a doctor or in a social assignment, because I can also give such an example from my constituency, he was also a mayor. The result was, in effect, that he was neither a doctor nor a mayor of that settlement, because he could not ride two horses or more horses at the same time with one buttock, and he could not carry out either his medical or the mayor's duties. I would ask you again, if in 2010 you saw the right to terminate the dual position of certain economic organizational leaders, teachers, school directors or to declare conflicts of interest in this respect in relation to the municipal office, then what is the reason for what has changed so much over the past four years, unless you have said earlier that you see it not incompatible, but that it is not necessary to amend them. What is your view of the disproportionate number of mayor's or district mayor's recommendations, either in relation to rural cities, medium-sized cities or cities with county rights? Or, aside from the technical reasons for power, what is the reason or justification for changing the capital's system in such a way as to return to the main issue of debate, or how do they intend to resolve various contradictions? And after that, I can't even begin to think about what's going to happen when the polls during the cycle show an increasingly negative picture for you, as we hope. How will the parliamentary electoral system be transformed? What insolences will they dare to commit? I think that this is virtually unlimited, and even with our imagination today, it is incomprehensible or unimaginable how they may change the proportion of individual or list seats, further reduce or perhaps re-uplift the number of Members of Parliament, the composition of constituencies, the limits of their constituencies, even in relation to a single constituency, as their current interests dictate. How long do you think this can last, how long can it take? Of course, the answer is simple: as long as there is only two thirds of them without a mandate. Maybe the good Lord will give you what I told you the other day, that, preferably during the first half of the term, you will lose this one mandate in an interim individual parliamentary election because you do not deserve it. Because it can be seen that it is not used for noble purposes, not for reforming the capital or the municipal system, not for learning from the rampage of the past four years, to engage in a normal dialogue - if they consider themselves such democrats - with opposition parties. If nothing else, let wise foresight guide you that sooner or later this two-thirds journey will just end, and it is better to begin the attitude towards compromises before they are actually forced to do so. No. You're not studying, you're really continuing, by the way, this promise you're making, it seems to be being fulfilled. If nothing else, the kind leader made statements in this direction, and it seems that this is done with the approval of the kind leader. What they would have protested when they were oppositionists would now commit ten times more filth. Without thinking, unscrupulous, without limitations. By the way, I can see in some of you that you probably don't like it the same way. At least, those of you who still have a good feeling, you don't like this kind of power-technical change, almost week after week, and this huge rampage you're running. They continue in the same place where they stopped a few weeks ago or a few months before the election campaign. How long do you think this can last, where personalized, where specific choices can be made? In this case, let's say they're making suggestions involving the capital. We remember that in July 2010 a proposal was made for a city with the right of Győr county, because they wanted to declare a conflict of interest, if I remember correctly, for the first time within three years in the case of military, police, professional or professional bodies, professional staff. Then they realized that this was not in favour of their candidate for mayor in Győr, and they immediately changed the rule so that he could fit into it. So something quite amazing is where Győr and Budapest will be, I don't know what will happen next, but we want answers to what justifies the transformation of the Budapest electoral system in this sense, why the rules on conflicts of interest are very shady and, by the way, very significantly affecting the outcome of the elections nationwide. But this is also a criticism of themselves, because you know that once again as many qualified - well, as their current local representatives are capable - representatives will not be able to pull or pull out of the top hat in the next few months, so it is easier to let them back in, so it is easier to start again. And I would like it once and for all, largely related to Dóra Dúró, if you would stop this individual and listed reflection. I would remind you of the election results you achieved in 1990 and 1994. As I understand it, Fidesz achieves 8.92 percent in 1990, with a result of 5,5 percent, it barely stayed in, and then to our great regrets, in 1994 in the National Assembly. They did not obtain one individual mandate, but all of their people were on the list. If we add these two cumulative percentages, we see that Jobbik gained significantly more in 2010 than you did in '90 or '94 in total, when it first made itself on the list. And it took you 20 years to win an election as a "self " force at all. Because if in '98 there is no Uncle Jóska Torgyán and 78 decommissioned small farmers, then Viktor Orbán will not be crowned king in the spring of '98, that is for sure. We know 2002 and 2006 very well. It took you twenty, twenty-two years to take the capital and, on the other hand, to actually win a large number of individual mandates. At the time, it was not claimed that the representatives from the national list were party soldiers or party cadets. Well, please, you've turned the whole country into a political pit, because from Tarpa to Sopronstone, it's full of fidesz political cadres! Looks like cadaver cemeteries are a problem only if they're not fidesz. If they're fidesz, everything's allowed again. And this is how you reshape the whole system, and we are well aware that in the competition of individual mandates or individual candidates, whether in the parliamentary or municipal elections, as Dóra Dúró rightly said, party preferences decide 99.9% of the time. And if you didn't rub your noses in that you've only been on a list, in the majority of them, at the head of the Viktor Orbán, who, if I remember correctly, hasn't even tried to start in private since 1994, so he hasn't even attempted or dared to make an individual mandate, then at least here this debate should be a good way to end it, to dare to make any distinctions between national and individual mandates or between national and individual representatives who have obtained national and individual lists, whether in terms of rights, duties or opportunities. In turn, I would once again like to call on the present Antal Rogán to engage in the debate and to give a substantive answer to the opposition representatives' points. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-87	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Kiss for two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-88	Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In fact, we have heard quite a lot of arguments from my fellow opposition Members about why this proposal is not good, and I would not say that we have heard countless arguments from the ruling party's ranks about why we should love this proposal. I would also like to argue why this proposal is not good. One important thing is that the problem is not with the two-tier metropolitan government. The problem is that, for four years now, the mayors of the Fidesz capital and the Fidesz majority districts have been unable to agree with each other, and even to make the situation worse, there are many Fidesz mayors already sitting in the benches of the Metropolitan Assembly. That's the problem. [[17.50]] I believe that if this situation remained so, then indeed, the governance of the capital would continue to be difficult. I do not believe that it is merely a matter of substance that the opposition is pushing. The fact that the government, continuing with the practice of the past four years, is now submitting a motion for a bill that should otherwise be put to a normal social debate. There has not been any discussion with the parties involved or with the opposition parties, unless we really consider it a negotiation that they have listened to twenty Fidesz metropolitan mayors who might have said how good this proposal is, they could not have thought better of it if they had not thought of it. We have not heard any arguments as to why this proposal is constitutional. My fellow Members have been pushing this issue before, and it is not reassuring to settle the amendment that has now been made, nor to this matter, and I believe that we still have an anti-law proposal. I believe that there is a need for a social debate on such an important issue, which will be presented later by my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-89	Thank you very much. Two minutes, András Schiffer, LMP fraction leader.
u2014-06-02-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The thing is that our fellow Member, László Kiss, will obviously [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] gets used to it when it requires social consultation here, that it can demand impact assessments with similar results for at least such a thorough reason. Obviously, an impact study has been carried out, but it is not what we say my fellow Member was thinking. So, the thing is, there is one more element missing from this debate: where is István Tarlós. Because we know that last week, when this bill was announced, he was abroad. But he hasn't said anything since. I'm sorry about István Tarlós, but if, if, in any case, you happen to win the mayor's election, how will you manage this city? It has not been easy so far, because there was no coalition in the Metropolitan Assembly, but virtually all the time the Fidesz district potentates have paralyzed the unified urban administration. How will a Fidesz mayor manage the capital if he does? How will István Tarlós, if he happens to win the fall election by accident, cope with a body where he will be in, and in this respect it doesn't matter what color, 23 mayors? Do you really think that Budapest can be guided by a clear, unified direction that 23 aspects of the unified capital will be paralysed? That's the answer I'd really like to get. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-91	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Burány, MSZP, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-06-02-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This bill has many flaws, and I would like to focus on one of them in my speech. This weakness is the serious disproportionateness expressed in the bill. What's this disproportionateness? We have seen earlier that Fidesz has a tendency to look down on those who disagree with them, or who are simply in a different situation, to punish them as "sorry. ' We've heard from a fidesz politician before that a man who doesn't have anything is worth so much. We have heard from the mouth of a fidesz politician that most of the non-voting metropolitans and Budapesters are quite simply panelproli. Fidesz's communication has refined a lot since then, and even though it sometimes slips out a statement of insolence since then, they make sure that they do not express their obvious grudges. However, they do not care at all or even strive to punish those who do not agree with them in some way, and generally, the bill is adapted in such a way that it serves their own power setup. The bill complies precisely with these incorrect principles. It meets this goal primarily by distinguishing voters in Budapest. In Budapest, there was a victory on the left in many large and patina districts on 6 April. Such a large district, such as Óbuda Békásmegyer, such as Újpest, such a large district, such as Angyalföld, such a large district Zugló, such as my constituency, Kőbánya and Kispest, such a large constituency Erzsébet, such a large constituency and district Csepel to mention only a few. Now you are devaluing the citizens of these districts in this bill, although not only for them, I would add, but primarily for them: they tell them that those on the left are worth so much. That vote is worth so much. How much? Less. You have tabled a bill that devalues the votes of those living in the majority district on the left and evaluates the votes of those living in a small district such as those living in the Buda Castle District and Krisztina City or those living in the city centre. Don't get me wrong, I like these voters, too. I do not agree deeply that it is worth significantly more in this electoral system, which you have formulated, a vote in the city centre, a vote in the Castle District of Buda or in Krisztina City, than, where appropriate, a vote in Kőbánya or Kispest. This is quite simply outrageous and quite simply unfair. This is one of the main reasons why you must withdraw this bill. But I would also like to point out another disproportion: the disproportion in the possibilities of advocacy. As much as I do not agree with the fact that the operation of the capital is divided into district operations, it must also be taken into account in a realistic way by the fact that you are able to and by force beat through the Fidesz party soldiers of the Parliament - if you have used this term - this bill and it will be implemented. We will, of course, use all the constitutional possibilities to prevent this. But if this bill does become a reality, then when proposals for urban development come, the word of those who represent the voters of large districts will be worth less or less than the word of those who will enter the Metropolitan Assembly as mayors of significantly smaller districts. It raises the risk that there will be much less development in the proportions of the districts where left-wing voters live most of the time, because from your practice, let's be honest, I have never missed the practice of punishment, I have never gone next door to punishing cities or districts who have not voted mostly on you. In fact, this bill makes a serious disproportionate statement, devalues the vote of voters living in large districts, and, if it is achieved, evaluates the lobby value of the tiny, still jewelry-box-like districts in which there are far fewer people than the large districts in Budapest that I have listed. This is quite simply unacceptable. I'm asking you not to try to play politics. [[18.00]] You don't want to rewrite everything in such a way that it serves your authority. Look at the interests of the Budapesters, look at the interests of the left-wing voters! In parentheses, it should be noted that not only left-wing voters are assessed by this bill. Although I disagree with LMP on a number of issues, and I disagree with Jobbik on almost nothing, LMP voters and better voters do not deserve to be devalued. If there are no substantial changes in party preferences, according to this bill there will be no mayor of LMP in any district of Budapest, there will be no better mayor of any district in Budapest. I don't mind this, but there will be significantly less seats for these tiny parties in Budapest in the Metropolitan Assembly than they would otherwise be able to represent in a proportionate election system, in the current system. I do not agree with this practice, even if I do not agree with these parties in whole or in part. In conclusion, this disproportionateness, which is reflected in the devaluation of some of the voters, the devaluation of non-fidesz voters and, in the event of implementation, in the operation of the capital city, cannot be allowed to do so. Once again, I demand that this bill be withdrawn. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-02-93	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman László Kiss, MSZP, would like to speak for two minutes.
u2014-06-02-94	Thank you for the floor. It is a strange situation when the opposition is arguing with itself, but we are forced to do so in this debate. Again, let me draw the attention of this House to a few things. My gullible fellow Member Dezső explained earlier what this system would look like exactly if - not for God's sake - it would come true. The elected mayors will sit in the Metropolitan Assembly, who, by the way, have been elected mayors, so their main task is obviously to control their own district. On the other hand, there will be the fallen mayor candidates who have not been elected, who, by the way, have been placed second to third in their district. How will this assembly come together? I mean, it's got to include deputy mayors. Obviously, it does not serve the efficient, good functioning of the system if the mayors who are already charged perform the function of deputy mayor, so, on the grounds of exclusion, it is obvious that the fallen mayor candidates will be the deputy mayor. This seems like a very good solution at first sight. Similarly, they will be the chairman of the committee and the staff of the committee, as I would like to say once again that the mayors obviously have the primary responsibility of managing their district. Well, if there's logic in this system, there's reason, if this system represents the real interest of voters, then obviously I think we have a very different concept of these things than you do. The first thing a district mayor has to do is run the district. I don't think you need to comment on that. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-95	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Dániel Z. Carpathian, MP Jobbik.
u2014-06-02-96	Mr President, Dear House, I was also expecting, say, the answers to come with Gergely Gulyás, but it seems that there is a more important topic for government representatives than for them to participate in this debate. The mathematical depreciation of voters of certain districts in Budapest has just been perfectly justified. This will certainly be noticeable in relation to Óbuda-Békásmegyer. It is also that a downtown vote will be worth more under this system, but do not forget the amazing conflict that can be caused either by real estate developments or by back-to-back disputes between the capital and districts. To give you an example, in the case of the long-protected Csillaghegy Beach Bath, which the so-called real estate development companies have already entered from the north, east, from several directions, and indeed, a residential park should have the area, the fact is that according to the rumors from the capital, they would have sold some of the six-acre ancestor park, could have been used by a foreign residential park building company, but a change ban could have prevented this at least temporarily. The question is, what happens when a brake, an additional brake is removed from the system. Where appropriate, in relation to this prohibition of change, the new type of Budapest leadership will call on that district potentate, or even put pressure on the entire apparatus to remove this unenhanced national treasure, national value from the scope of this prohibition, to beat it, to play it into a foreign hand, where appropriate. So you can see that there are quite serious dangers in every district, in all types of valuables, and the biggest problem happens when you lose Budapest. According to this system, once the national side goes into a minority in Budapest and the national radical bettermen are not there to order, but, where appropriate, to return to an older state, no one will excuse you from the responsibility that these national treasures mentioned are due to your fault. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is because of his failure to do so, or even because of his sin. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-97	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a 15-minute time frame, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-98	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In view of the new provisions on house rules, we are in a strange situation that if we want to talk in plenary about the amendments, then, as my fellow Member Gergely Gulyás did, we can do nothing but do this as part of the general debate. In fact, as he said, and also explained, he did submit a proposal for an amendment, which is Amendment 9, if you look at the numbers. With reference to this, my fellow Member said that constitutional concerns can be eliminated here if the Parliament adopts this proposal. We can also talk about the amendment proposal in particular here, but we can, of course, talk about a proposal of this type in general. I think that, although my fellow Member Gulyás intends to make this amendment, if we look only at the proposal and its text, it is obviously good, positive and eligible. After all, the serious disproportionate system that is planned to be seriously disproportionate is intended to make it a little more proportionate. But, ladies and gentlemen, because a system has so far been severely unfair, and then, as a result of an amending proposal, it will be a little less unfair than a serious injustice, it is not good, it is not acceptable. Because my fellow Member's proposal is nothing more than to apply certain compensation in the case of the compensation list, in the case of compensatory mandates, I cannot say otherwise, although I repeat the word, but obviously in relation to something else when we define the mandates here, that is to say, in the case of the votes, how many actually cast the vote on which parties. Ladies and gentlemen, This kind of proportion is about not being proportionate in the case of 23 mandates, but only being proportionate in the case of 9 mandates. Let me ask you, if the problem is basically that, and it seems that the pro-government representatives also see constitutional problems with this distortion, if we eliminate only a part of it, then will we get to the point that it will be a little less unconstitutional? Because I think that's the result of this logic. We do not eliminate unconstitutionality, but we want to compensate or eliminate unconstitutionality due to disproportionateness by making part of the system a little more proportionate and the other part less proportionate. Why don't you give me one of my fellow members of government an argument that makes sense? You know, this is a tactic you've used very well over the past four years: three steps forward, one step back. This was the case when the powers of the Constitutional Court were reduced, and then a number of other cases could be listed in the public law legislation of the last four years where you have used the same technique. [[18.10]] In the case of the Constitutional Court, they said that they could not review Parliament's decisions on certain issues and added that it was good, but they could do so on the basis of a small, narrowly certain criteria. Some have felt that you have a democratic feeling about this, since you listen to the voice of society and exercise gestures. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing but a big hoax. That's what cons are all about. You've been doing this consciously for over four years, taking three steps forward, and then one step back. This proposal is nothing else. This is about about about one or two terms of compensation for the otherwise 33 members of the general meeting. Otherwise, the problems that my fellow Members have identified, which I do not wish to repeat, that the vote of a voter in one district is worth five times as much as the vote in the other district, will not make it any better. Because the mayor elected by 20,000 people and the mayor elected by 115,000 people will also have one vote in the assembly. You know what a meaningful change would be, for example? If the votes of those who are elected by more people were worth more. Obviously, this would be a different problem of constitutionality, but let us say that this problem could be eliminated. But that's not what you do. You say you're going to throw some kind of masquerading solution to the opposition and the people, and by the way, the system you've come up with will come into force exactly the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not like it when voters are deceived. Because they probably won't know us because we've known you and your government for four years. We know exactly what these methods are. I think that when you see this, it is your job to present the planned frauds to the voters. They're the ones you're trying to trick. You know, it's natural for certain distortions to exist in the electoral system. This is different from country to country, but I think it is not natural - and I am referring specifically to parliamentary elections, it will be worth talking about local government when it happened - that the parties who are sitting here in opposition voted significantly more than you. Compared to that, you have two thirds in this Parliament. Now, that's what's unacceptable. And you want to play the same system in municipal elections. Look at the proportion of all the votes in Budapest and the proportion of Fidesz MEPs in the general assembly. It's going to be about the same disproportion. You want us to see that such a proposal is presented to us in the name of a proposal amending it, which will change a mandate or two at the most. I don't have exact numbers, and I don't want to operate with exact numbers, but with scale. Just as my fellow Member Burány said, he was right, and rightly so: I generally disagree with the LMP line, or I disagree with a lot of things, Jobbike almost never. But these parties, let's say, have 10-12 percent support in Budapest, and if we look at how many representatives they will have in the general assembly, depending on how this compensation story will take place, they will have 3-5 percent compared to this. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that if a person receives half or less than half of it in a body than the proportion of voters voted for him, is that okay? Do you think that's good? Do you think that by putting such an amendment here, by any chance, this system will be shaken? Ladies and gentlemen, What I would like to ask you to do is, if you take seriously what you are saying is that there is a need for consultation on these issues, not with your own Fidesz mayors, but to negotiate with opposition parties, to negotiate with civilians, not with fake fidesz civilians, but with real civilians, and to present a different proposal accordingly. For my part, I think that this law should not be carved with amendments. For my part, I am not going to put forward an amendment. This proposal, which is now before this House, only strengthens this opinion. Because what's bad in the first place, what's bad in the first place, which is rotten in the first place, can't be fixed by surface treatment. The right way to do this is to withdraw it, to negotiate it, and to present a fair system, which is normal in democracy and which reflects the will of voters, if they want to change. Last time, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal had a debate, by the way, my colleague Szilágyi and I participated in it, a television debate. There, Congressman Kósa has made a lot of good arguments as to why the current system in the capital is not good. It is true that, let us say, in the same district, one way is done properly, the other one is full of potholes, and that only depends on which is the metropolitan route and which is the district-reserved route. The only problem is that these legitimate and correct arguments were not about this bill. I told you there, and I'll tell you now: if you want to make a change, consider abolishing district mayors and forming a united assembly. Consider having a general meeting completely different from the district mayors. This is the other option, and then perhaps the system of brakes and counterweights can work within Budapest. The advantage of this is that the other would have a different advantage. But then no district mayors should participate in the work of the Metropolitan Assembly. In other cases, do not become district mayor, but choose one or more representatives in each district. Ladies and gentlemen, That would be a change. This could indeed correct the problems of the capital, which now stem from the fact that the district authorities are living separate lives, and the City Council is living separate lives. But the fact that they keep this double system in the same way is simply now turning the City Council into a lobby, I think it will solve nothing. In those municipalities, and my fellow Members, who have a better relationship with the government, the road will be built, and the other will not be built. I do not think that a two-thirds majority wishing to influence the future of the capital may have the purpose of creating such a situation. Once again, fellow Members, this law is becoming increasingly appropriate: to be withdrawn. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Kiss will be here for two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-100	Thank you for the floor. Just so we don't have any arguments left unanswered from the other side. They said, fellow Members, that a uniform system would be created. It is a very uniform system when the Metropolitan Assembly is elected in a completely different way than the county assemblies in the country. I don't know why that's uniform. In the previous comments, we have seen how messy this next system will be if it stays that way. I think it also increases the administrative confusion in so far as a voter in the capital can experience how he votes in a completely different way than a country voter. A Metropolitan Assembly looks completely different from a county assembly from now on. The comicity of the matter is that if they tried to introduce the same system to county assemblies, we would see that we would be led to scandal and ridicule. This system will be simpler - let's look each other in the eye. To say that it is a great achievement that the voter in the capital no longer has to deal with four ballots, I think it is to look at the voters as stupid as I think they should go on. [[18.20]] So let's face it seriously: everyone really thinks that voters can't decide which ballots are for what? And do they really need to be protected from this incredible thing that they have to throw away not three ballots, but four ballots? I think this is ridiculous. Finally, one last thing. They always come up with these two-thirds, so I'd like to remind you that this is a momentary, temporary state. For example, now, if you look at Parliament, the opposition has a two-thirds majority. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Congratulations!]] Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-101	Thank you very much. In 15 minutes' time, Mr László Teleki, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to highlight from another aspect what I am missing from this bill. Of course, I agree with fellow opponents and I can identify everything with the shortcomings they have said. I think it is important that I speak because I think that it is not proportionate and does not follow a legal system the amendment that we can see now, because if we look at the parliamentary electoral law, we can see that that law gives us a chance that the nationalities will have a preferential mandate or a stand-alone system in the Hungarian Parliament, and that is very good, I think, even if I have seen and see a lot of backward situations in the law that we will definitely have to remedy in the near future, but I think that it has given nationalities the opportunity to appear in the Hungarian Parliament. I still don't see that in this law that's in front of us. Nor do I see that it grants the right to a reduced mandate that would give the 13 national minorities an opportunity to sit in the capital and work there with either a reduced mandate or a stand-alone activity. It doesn't matter because it would be possible to say that the chairmen of the district minority self-governments can always be invited to the general assembly of the capital with the right of discussion, but it is not the same situation as if they were given the opportunity to, I say once again, grant a preferential mandate or initiate the establishment of a system of spokespersons. Therefore, I would like to see such a phenomenon in the law for the sake of Budapest's metropolitan ethnicities. And I think that I would not only like to see one of these myself, but also the nationalities who live here. On the other hand, I think this question is important because, when you think about it - as many have said - and I do not know if it is true or not - there has been no very social dialogue with either civilians or politics about what happens to this bill. Therefore, I suggest that if this law is withdrawn and rethinked, we should perhaps ask the actors of political parties in favour of civilians and ask not least nationalities how they feel about this issue. Because I believe and confess that if they ask the 13 national minorities in Hungary, then all of them - who live and live in Budapest, of course - say that they would consider it important to have an institution in the capital that could get them into the Metropolitan Assembly with a discount. Therefore, I would like to point out to the government and to the national author that, if you want to do consistent work, you should in any case draw up and turn the parliamentary law and move from the parliamentary law to relative good things that can help the nationalities of Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-02-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, We have come to another chapter in the debate with ourselves. I think that there is no point in two minutes now, so you can say what you want to say, because you can see that there is no way to have a noisy debate on this occasion. At the same time, I would really like to thank the distinguished attention of my fellow members in favour of the Government, who are monitoring this debate. I would encourage them to try to improve this law with their constructive contributions, and this debate should contribute to the creation of an even better rule, since we have all the time we need to do so. First of all, I would like to say to the non-present Bence of Rétvári that I did not speak against the rules changed by the then socialist government in 1994. There were basically two reasons for this. One was that I was 15 years old, like my fellow Member Bellozó, I had relatively little parliamentary activity during this period. We'll try to make it up to you. The other is what this regulation is about. The 1994 regulation was about electing the mayors directly, by presenting the Socialist Government and adopting Parliament. This was one of the most serious packages of this '94 amendment, speaking of history class. I think, with this rule, to directly elect the mayors in the settlements of over 10,000 people, everyone here agrees, it is not elegant to express this as a criticism, as it is the achievement of the government of Gyula Horn and of socialist governance. Similarly, I think it is right that we should talk about the concepts accurately. Although my fellow Member from Rétvári kept talking about the allocation of resources, the correct expression is the sharing of resources, which is interesting because that is also the name of the law on this issue, so it is not so easy to confuse these concepts. But while we are at it, I am sincerely curious about how mayors who are already unable to agree with each other on exactly how the sharing of resources should take place - the capital is already loud from the scandals and woes that are being spoken about - how they will, when they form a body, form a united body - in a quotation sign - to govern together. I honestly have my doubts about this. Similarly, I would not like to hold a legal lesson on what the law on legislation looks like and why it makes sense, I think that many people know this, even if it is not being applied, but let us consider that it is in place in a law that the authors agree on the law; it is not the devil's suggestion that a responsible government, a responsible political party, should present a law in such a way that they know exactly what they want to do with it, they know exactly what the effects are; it is not the devil's doing to ask people what social organisations representing people want to do, whether they think this initiative is right. If the author had done so, if the government had done so by submitting a law in accordance with its own laws, for example, there would not be an embarrassing amendment before us, which is about trying to carve the otherwise anti-law proposal without it. That would have made sense. But let us look at some of the elements of the proposal. The first thing I'd like to say is the 500-person mayor's recommendation. However, it is outrageous, I think, that from the chaos that was in the parliamentary elections, any political party does not conclude that it is necessary to put an end to the fact that organisations without real social support - if you like - sometimes even hear that they have a dubious signature - are running for elections and enjoy public-law benefits or, in many cases, financial advantages. Instead, we're talking about another direction, we're talking about yes, in a metropolitan district virtually happy-happy to run for candidate, and happy-happy to run for mayor, and from here on out, it's probably his own skill that will decide what he can get out of this adventurer policy. It is clear that the change of the electoral system in the capital weighs party policy aspects, which serve such purposes. You can clearly see that. [[18.30]] You can see it from the time that's unusual. It is simply not in the middle of the summer, turning to the election campaign, that a responsible government does this, but actually waits for how an election takes place and then draws conclusions. But if we look at how Fidesz did this in connection with the parliamentary elections, we have seen that it has left at least two years to weigh precisely the rules on the road that remain until the next election. This is not the case here, there is now a law that will be amended practically immediately, and in a few months we will choose this. And then, of course, the result is a big mess. Then the two-thirds will fix it, and the capital will do what it wants for five years. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about a new appendix to the Fundamental Law, which is referred to as granite-solidity, the electoral rules, the municipal rules. The message, however, is that changing our basic laws is much easier than transferring a passenger car from one name to another. This one has a message. The fact that we cannot speak of legal certainty, since a lawyer should be able to follow the constantly changing legislative environment, is of great importance. And how important this is, it shows that, in many cases, fines are imposed on ordinary people because they are unable to comply with legislation that is constantly changing. This is the result of the legislation that Fidesz and the Fidesz government are constantly doing. That's irresponsible. Of a thickness exceeding 1 mm but not exceeding 1 mm laws that form, are unnecessary and undermine the system of legality. I think that we should return to the fact that, after a normal social consultation, laws will be put in place here after a proper debate. Let's look at some important elements. We have already told you about the chaos that will or will result in the assembly of the district council from mayors and fallen mayor candidates. If the quality of such a body is, in your view, better than the result of the list distribution of political relations that has actually been deliberately elected by the people, then I think we have another concept of democracy again. Basically, my fellow Members spoke about two constitutional problems earlier. One is that the proposal violates the principle of direct choice. This is the simplest principle, if you think about it, because what the district citizens choose: they choose a mayor. What will become of the person after this? Mayor and metropolitan rep, or mayor or no one, you don't know that. The principle of direct choice is that whoever I vote for will be what I choose. That's the simplest way to explain it. This is in breach of this system, and this is not the subject of the amendment tabled. It is already possible to talk about whether, of course, a mayor has a duty to sit on the order of business committee in the capital instead of dealing with his district, but I can certainly say that there is also a division of opinions on this. I think the mayor's top priority is controlling the district. The proposal also violates the principle of equal voting, even if the proposal for an amendment that they have succeeded in fabricating along the way is adopted, because of the following. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. In any case, more than 100,000 inhabitants of the district will get one person into the Metropolitan Assembly as well as twenty-thousand inhabitants of the I. district. This means that a representative of 120,000 and 20,000 is sure to be involved. It's a disproportionate system. It is as if a parliamentary district of 20,000 and a parliamentary district of 120,000 have the same mandate, bringing an individual representative into Parliament. There was an example of such disproportionate systems before 1945, but I think that this disproportionateness in modern democracy violates the principle of equal voting, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law, and which is also stated in the decisions of the Constitutional Court: this must not be continued. If we look at which districts are being punished by this proposal, it is clear that, in particular, the districts with a larger population, the periphery, my district, where I come from, are the districts of the III. Circuits, too. I believe that this imbalance cannot be eliminated from this law. That is why my fellow Member Bárándy is right when he talks about what the fate of this proposal might be. It would be naive to think that this proposal could be framed. In his amendment tabled by my fellow Member Fideszes, he is attempting to do so, but what we see is that this experiment is not enough, it does not lead to anything. We believe that the Socialist Party believes that this proposal can only have one fate, one direction, and that it will lead to the trash can. Ladies and gentlemen, Cancel this proposal. If you really are interested in the fate of the capital, if you really are interested in a more just proposal that is more resounding to the capital's population and more resounding to the affairs of the capital's population, I would ask you to open a debate on this. There is no party here in Parliament who is not willing to talk about any reasonable proposal. There is no party in Parliament that would not be willing to continue this if they brought a concept that makes sense. We can see that now the opposition is talking to each other and is trying to convince those who are not present to withdraw its proposal or to amend it by the author. Well, if the real aim is to change this current capital election system a little or even a lot, then do so, in a normal bill, bring this here. The present is not like that. We talked about a lot of things here today. Multi-level administration, opaque control of the capital. But the thing is, the past didn't end four years ago, the past ended yesterday. After all, there is a fidesz leadership in this capital city, but there are a lot of Fidesz mayors with a lot of Fidesz board majority and Fidesz deputy mayors with a huge salary. And yet it remains a conflict of interest between the districts and the capital, yet the capital is characterised by loud political debates and indecision. We heard a few months ago when this proposal was aired out, that István Tarlós said that in the event that this or something like this would happen, he would not start. Mr Lajos Kósa then said that he had discussed this proposal with István Tarlós. In the beginning, it is an interesting social debate that the authors have with a person concerned, the mayor of the capital, who, by the way, if the news does not deceive, will enter the competition itself. However, we can see from each other's perspective that there is still no proposal in place that comes before us so quickly, which changes the electoral system of the capital so radically, and whose social debate is about the reconciliation between Lajos Kósa and István Tarlós. This is not all right, my fellow Members. So I suggest that you reconsider this proposal once again, withdraw it. In September, October, after the municipal elections, bring back a more elaborate, more complex proposal, which is not against fundamental law, as is the proposal based on the real interests of the capital's population, which is actually able not to marginalise the parties that, where appropriate, have 5-6-8 percent in the capital. I believe that it is in everyone's common interest that such a normal proposal should come before us. I'm waiting for you to make this possible. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-06-02-105	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-06-02-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. While speaking to Mr Teleki, I thought about a few things, adding that I did not agree with the Member's speech, because I prefer to think of the argument made by Mr Barándy: it is completely unnecessary to submit amendments to this amendment. It's the way it is, it's wrong. But yet, Congressman stood up and spoke for the protection of the minority. [[18.40]] Why am I bringing this here? Because, with this one speech, Mr Teleki did much more than in the previous term, Flórian Farkas, who would also be here in the House to protect minorities. So I would like to ask you not to act like Wolf Flores in this House, not that the voters sent us in here so that we wouldn't argue with each other. I really respect everyone, but could I name Congressman Vejkey Vas, Mónika Dunai, who are still here, but did you just say Szilárd Németh here - before? - A few hours ago, you consulted the opposition and then you gave your speech and disappeared. Lajos Kósa is not here, neither is Antal Rogán, who has passed this entire bill, and there is no one to say that he stands up, and he would honestly say that I ask you what you just said, that we might consider it, that they would argue at all, that they would argue at all. Because right now, if you're being observed, I'm saying 80 percent of professional arguments are made and not political arguments. Professionally, we're asking you what this is all about. Perhaps we could argue about it, and I might take this opportunity to see if the Members who are still in there - two, four, six, eight - might be able to convince the Fidesz MEPs that there is a loophole, a Jobbik amendment proposal, a loophole to back out of this situation, because this amendment says that the bill is 1, 3. § 5 and Article 25 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union § 3a is deleted. If this amendment is adopted, then we have amended the law in accordance with Article 4. And then we could really start doing what I told you once to sit down, talk about it, change it, make Budapest better, really solve the problems of the districts and the capital, but this would require dialogue. What kind of consultation could it have been, and it can be seen here that he stands up, let us say, Szilárd Németh - who will not be able to defend himself now, and there may be someone who will blame me for talking about Szilárd Németh so that he is not here, so that no one can prevent him, especially as a lead speaker, from being present throughout the debate, from defending the sentence that I am now saying that Szilárd Németh here, when he stood up, could not say anything else, he was not telling the truth. He said he consulted the opposition. Turns out he didn't consult anyone. Up until now, opposition speeches have revealed that you have not consulted the opposition, announced that this will happen. The opposition may have heard of this at some point, in some form of committee or in the House Committee or anywhere, but there was no consultation here, that's for sure. You can see that from the fact that there is no consultation right now. So even the law, the debate, the general debate, when we're here, we don't talk to each other. It is true that the opposition will say that we will sit here, in the possession of the two-thirds they can say what they want, and then the voting time will come, and we will press the button. At least you'll know what you're pressing a button for. That may be why they may be ashamed of themselves when they press that button because they give it an order, but those who aren't here won't even know what they're pressing a button for. What kind of consultation is this, or what kind of representative work is that anyway? ! I tell you honestly, I am very sad because we may have other ideas, you may think differently about the different things in life, you may think differently about Budapest, you may think differently about the districts, and I am also willing to accept that we may not be right, let us say, on certain issues, because no one has the Philosopher's Stone, neither we nor you. In fact, the point of parliamentarism would be to try to convince each other by reason of certain things, and especially if everyone's goal was to make something better, to reform something, and to make something better. But it's not what we're dealing with here, and what we've seen in the last four years is that you guys have been sitting here, very, very, very, very much arguing with nothing from the benches of the Fidesz-KDNP, letting the opposition say it calmly, said, and then the time for the vote came and it was voted in its two-thirds possession. Believe me, this state of grace will come to an end, and it will be difficult to get used to it, so that after that you may be able to convince the opposition with reason and normality, as I said in the previous term, I understood the representatives in the bench of Fidesz-KDNP, and I understood for a while that they will now try to give back the last eight years that they may have received from the MSZP, and then there will be anger, and we will also fight back, but we cannot now continue to fight back for five years. We should stop this once and say, "Okay, all right, we gave it back, and then we'll start from now on." I thought, by the way, because it was said here, if you recall, that it was in Viktor Orbán's speech, when he said that peace can always be brought by the strong, and now, at this moment, by the will of the electorate, you are the strong ones, you should bring that peace, you should in principle create the consensus that we can function a little more normally in Parliament. Believe me, it doesn't matter what any of the voters voted for. They voted, in the first place, to make it better for this country to move forward in this country. They did not vote primarily for Fidesz to be better for Fidesz, they did not vote primarily for Jobbik to be better for Jobbik, who voted for Jobbik, these voters voted for this country to be better for this country, and they saw the realization of it either in this country or in the other party to succeed. This must always be in front of everyone's eyes that voters vote to make this country better and see the parties as a means, and here we are again meeting with the Fidesz. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-107	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond specifically - although it would be good for this to come from the other side - to what Congressman Szilágyi has said. There are several of us in this House who have been going through the last four years, and I would ask your advice or your opinion to my fellow Members in Fidesz to tell me what President László Kövér was thinking when he said that things would be different here. I'm just terribly curious. I wonder what he was thinking when he said that we would respect the authority of this House better here in the Parliamentary Chamber, because once again the bill came in as a motion for individual representatives, and once again there was no social consultation on the bill. In the debate, they are doing the same thing as my fellow Member Szilágyi said that they are practically exhausting the opposition, say only their own, and after a while they will run out of speakers, and then someone will say something in the closet, and then we will conclude this debate by saying that otherwise you have not given us one meaningful answer for a very long time in this debate. I'd like to ask you why. Congressman Iron, why don't you answer us? Fellow Members! Why aren't they answering? Why don't you come up with an argument for what we're telling you? This, fellow Members, is not a debate. And if you boycott the debate because that's what you're doing right now, it's a serious violation of Parliament's authority. That's what they've been doing for the last four years. The secretary of state sat through a four-hour debate on the electoral law without saying a word. Then we also debated the powers of the Constitutional Court for about four hours without having given an opinion other than opposition representatives. Mr. Secretary of State is talking right now. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You have no idea what the previous speeches were. I'm asking you to think this through. Thank you.
u2014-06-02-109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman László Teleki, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-110	Thank you very much. I don't want to scare anyone because I'm talking for 15 minutes, I'm doing two minutes, but I can't do that right now. I asked for the floor because Congressman György Szilágyi may have called me. I think that I think what I said is important because I have to take note that in my values, nationality appears today in Hungary as an integral part of society. Therefore, if we say today that the culture that is present in the 13 minorities cannot be enforced either in a political decision-making body or in any other form, I think that it is also the problem of the legislators, because if we think about it - in one place I said it in my previous speech - which we were able to give in the parliamentary elections to give the opportunity that I have listed, then I think that we should continue to think consistently that this is about the capital in other scenes, but also in county assemblies, or even in county towns, in the same way we think, or we just want to maintain the right to consult. [[18.50]] So I would consider it very important that these things come down to the responsibility of the legislators, how they think about the 13 ethnic minorities - now there is no national ethnic minority, there is only a minority of minorities - who are here in Hungary, and I think it is very important to bring real things on this issue, not false, but real things on the scene. I think that the government has something to do with this, because if it was consistent with the parliamentary elections - I reiterate - then I think it is very important that it continues to be consistent and include in the Capital Assembly the possibility that, not at the expense of compensation, but on the contrary, provides an additional opportunity for a preferential mandate. Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-111	Thank you. Mr László Kiss is next, MSZP.
u2014-06-02-112	Thank you very much. I don't want to talk to anyone, so I don't talk for 15 minutes. One of the things I would like to talk about is that no one thinks that the opposition is rejecting this proposal from the gut, to be more precise: it would reject a normal proposal from the gut if it came before it. After all, if we look at it, then we can see that the kind of municipal law, the kind of solution Fidesz chose - similarly quickly passing through Parliament - about municipal elections is not good, it can be modified in many ways. So the opposition is certain that it is not against it, and the Socialist Party is not against changing the current electoral law or electoral procedures. But we certainly don't think it's elegant that the two teams are warming up at the soccer game, they're in the locker room, the game starts in a few minutes, and in the meantime, maybe because of one of the team's ambitions, they're changing the rules of football. Well, we really don't see this as an elegant solution, but we think that if the ruling party has the intention of creating a normal law and dealing with this issue normally, then we are partners in that. Because the law passed by the Fidesz government and the Fidesz majority parliament on municipal elections is indeed not good, so there is more to change. It is not a few months before the elections that there is much to change, but after the elections, when the emotions settle a little, the wind of politics slows down a bit, then it is up to the government to come forward with a proposal that has worked out, which is good and which has passed the social debate. The first question is whether the system of recommendation is in order. Is it okay for a district council member to be recommended by 50-60 or 30-40 voters, could it not be considered to move this up a little bit? Is it all right that the parliamentary elections failed badly that there were uncontrolled recommendations in the system? Compared to this, the proposal withdraws, talks about 500 recommendations from the mayor, which we can see in support of the anomalies that we have experienced in the parliamentary elections. Then is it okay that the representation of minorities does not appear directly at the level of local governments, which László Teleki talked about? But some other questions could be asked. Is it okay that the compensation rate on the municipal list is so low? - and so on. So there are some issues on which the change really needs to be considered. However, the consideration of the change means that the real proposal resonating on substantive questions comes here, and obviously, as partners in the social debate tell us what they think, what they think differently, the arguments are made in Parliament, and Parliament, in its own wisdom, clearly decides what it wants to do. What's going on here is everything, but it's not a debate, it's not a social debate. How painful it is that this is true shows that even László Kövér started his chair-booking speech by saying that the legislation will be different now. It's gonna be different this time. I also expected, when I sat in this bench, that perhaps this cycle would not be included as an example of a deterrent to administrative law and constitutional law textbooks, and perhaps normal, well-founded laws would come before us, which would not escape the rules that most of you have created. It also says everything, of course, if we do not comply with a law - the law on legislation - or if we are constantly circumventing what this majority has done. Well, that makes the case quite difficult in itself. Let's take a look at it with a common eye. What would happen in a workplace if a boss constantly changed the rules on working time and work, giving conflicting instructions? And what would happen in this job if the boss hadn't even gone to work, he wouldn't have talked to the employees? It would be chaos. It would be what awaits the capital after the adoption of this law. Let's not let the mayors we choose to control the district get in an unworthy position. Is there a picture in front of us when the Metropolitan Assembly from the elected mayors and the fallen mayor candidates fights against each other in the sharing of funds, engages in unworthy debates and cannot agree? We have before us the authority of the Mayor, the authority of the Metropolitan Assembly and the authority of district mayors, what does this proposal do? No one can be serious, my fellow Members, that the arguments which the author, who is no longer in the Chamber, has given me are indeed true. No one can think that this bill can be justified by the fact that it is cheaper, while any deputy mayor will be employed by the capital with a'ministerial salary'. While we are talking about how much chaos this bill creates, there can be no argument that one less ballot paper will have to be filled out by district voters. Please don't underestimate the district voters, the citizens of the capital. They know exactly what they're voting for, and they know exactly what this system is. Consider, please, what the opposition proposes to put this bill in its rightful place, in the trash, and then, when the storms of politics cool off after the municipal elections, the government should present to us a bill that is beyond social consultation, which was discussed not only by the Fidesz mayors in a day's time, but also, as a really elaborate proposal, the important issues that could actually be debated, roughly addressed and capable of directing the capital to a growth path. I think we have before us what to do when we think responsibly. That's what you do. Trust me, it's never a loss of prestige to do the right thing. It is not a loss of prestige to withdraw a bill that is in fact not suitable for a solution to the capital. It's not a loss of prestige, it's a political greatness to see that we were wrong. Do this, admit you're wrong, and bring back a real substantive bill at the right time. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-06-02-113	Thank you, Congressman. No further comments were received. [[For signal:]] Yes, at the last minute, Gergely Bárándy. I give you the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'll keep this very short. Once again, I would like to attempt to respectfully ask the pro-government representatives to join the debate. Do it, fellow Members. I know the custom: Congressman Vas Imre will read the pre-written term; I suppose if he is the lucky one who has been appointed for this task. What I would like to ask you, the debate, as we have repeatedly said, is that arguments and arguments are made. You do not have the opportunity, my fellow Members, to participate in this debate, which is the duty of the law. [[19.00]] That is why I would like to remind you once again with respect, and ask you not to say something in the closing words that you cannot respond to, which cannot be debated, but to enter into this debate and state your objections. There have been many arguments, such as those from my colleague László Teleki, my fellow Member, which have nothing to do with the political conflict between us; for example, the question of representation of minorities in the City Council. I don't understand why you can't respond to that. I don't understand why such a suggestion cannot be answered. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again of your legal duty to take part in this debate. Thank you.
u2014-06-02-115	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-06-02-116	Very briefly, because we will not be able to speak after Imre Vas's speech. I don't know why that's good, anyway, that we can't react to it. I would like to ask Imre Vas, because I have seen him, so that he is included in the records, that Antal Rogán had an opinion about this debate, because he came to you, talked to you for a long time, for ten minutes, and you took generous notes. I suppose Antal Rogán has given his opinion on what we have raised here. At least do it because we can't answer him to tell him what Antal Rogán's opinion was, which you wrote down, because I'm curious about what Antal Rogán thinks about this. This would be an interesting illustration of the case that at least we know that certain parts of your speech are the opinions of Antal Rogán. Because this is an important question, because Antal Rogán is the determining factor in this bill. I'm guessing he took part in it quite strongly, like the mayor of District V, who, by the way, was fighting István Tarlós for a very long time, and even the trees were saying that he might have been, or perhaps even in the future, a candidate for mayor or whatever. So I'd really like to know what Antal Rogán thinks about this debate after all, what he said. So I really just want to ask you, when you say it, to say that this is what Antal Rogán said. Okay? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-117	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2014-06-02-118	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, In the faction, the deal was that I wasn't so much of a Pest that I shouldn't say anything, but...
u2014-06-02-119	Into the microphone, please.
u2014-06-02-120	Which one is it? [[He's pinning his microphone.]] Yes, thank you. So, I was saying thank you very much for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, I have listened to this debate, I do not know how to divide Budapest, but I have this belief, and I now see that this proposal is wrong. [[Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] So more and more people are starting to convince me. I would now ask the honourable pro-government Members, if they agree that it is wrong, to remain silent and not to speak, and to express their agreement with us that you can see that this is completely wrong, because you have to express your views somehow. So that's what I wanted you to do. Thank you.
u2014-06-02-121	Thank you very much. I do not see any more names on the screen, so I would like to give the floor to Mr Vas Imre, who wishes to respond on behalf of the authors to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now, read it to me, Imre. Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, let's hear it.]]
u2014-06-02-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that we have some fellow Members who have spoken in the debate and have waited for the answer. In order to obtain a majority in the capital, this electoral system requires that the majority of the 23 districts must win the mayor's position or the mayor's seat. It comes out this way, does it not take 17 Members to have a majority in the Metropolitan Assembly after the introduction of this rule, and then you can get as much on the compensation list as you have the 17 representatives. In fact, this is what came out of the debate on the opposition side that they do not trust that 12 mayoral seats can be won in Budapest from the 23 districts. The proposal is about the mayor becoming a member of the Metropolitan Assembly. It is not about creating districts, where, by means of a vote, we choose two posts, but the mayor automatically becomes a member of the Metropolitan Assembly and introduces a compensation system. With this, we can make sure that Budapest does not have a district that does not have a representative in the capital. It would be very strange for the Parliament to have a settlement without a parliamentary representative. Unfortunately, today in Budapest, the I, the V., VI., VII., XIII. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. There is not one major district in the Metropolitan Assembly, and with this method, that mayors become members of the Metropolitan Assembly, we can achieve this. So I understand the problem of opposition parties, that they think they can't win the mayor's seats, because their last-named candidate for mayor could once bring a district mayor's seat, and then in 2006 the voters decided otherwise. I would like to say that there has been a discussion with the Association of Budapest Local Governments, of which 23 districts are members, and of which, if I count correctly, there are three places with MSZP mayor. Szilárd Németh, who spoke before me, said that at today's meeting there was 1 abstention and 20 votes in favour of the proposal. So there was an absence on the part of the alliance... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Not everyone was there, really. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who wasn't there? The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Think again about the numbers.]] Only the XIII. The district wasn't there. And XXIII. The district wasn't there. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes. Dr. Vas Imre to Dr. Répássy to Robert:]] I know, I know. The other is that they're trying to account for a proportionate system. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Let's try, we just don't know!]] The system in the capital, but also in other settlements, is not proportionate. With up to 30-35 percent vote, someone can win an individual municipal representative district and then represent that part of the settlement. At the recommendation of 500 people, we would like to point out from the Act on the Election of Members of Parliament that it is strange that, let's say, a candidate for mayor would require 1,000 or 1500 recommendations, while, let's say, a candidate for parliamentary representatives could have been a candidate with 500 recommendations. And technically, here my fellow Member suggested that footballers are already warming up in the locker room. The date of this match hasn't even been set. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: But it's already fixed! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] So there is plenty of time for the parties to set up their candidates under these rules and organise their work on the electoral campaign accordingly. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Of course, we will look at the amendments, if they are intended to improve, and if they are included in the concept of the proposal, we will, of course, support them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-06-02-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. In accordance with the adopted urgent motion, no further amendments can be tabled. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr László Kiss, MEP from MSZP, applied for a speech after today's agenda: "Is the island of Shipyard not owned? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-02-124	Thank you for the floor. Maybe we're moving on to a different topic, and I'd like to talk about the island of Shipyard. Perhaps not everyone knows that the island of Shipyard, the island of Óbuda, is a popular part of the district. For a very long time, all those who loved the water mood or the parks that were on the island went on a trip. [[19.10]] A little historical reflection may be interesting for everyone, as Pannonia's provincial governor's palace was built here after Christ in 106, a port and a military camp were built here, and in the Middle Ages these ruins were covered by forest. Another historical tradition is that the first Hungarian shipyard, Count Széchenyi István, was established on this island at the initiative of the Danube Shipyard. Until the change of system, this factory worked. Unfortunately, the Calvary, the island's Calvary, is connected to this. By 1991 it became clear that the yard could not operate, its winding-up lasted for a long time until 1999, but created unclear relations. Then the island had offices, golf clubs and discotheques, and the Sziget Festival of Óbuda, which was held here since 1993, gave a name to this area. The privatisation of the yard was more of an experiment by the current government, but the various governments only achieved that the so-called shipbuilding Sziget Vagyonkezelő Kft. He painted a rather bizarre ownership picture, and in time offshore companies appeared in it, while other companies also came and went among the members. There wasn't much to know who was the owner of the former shipyard. The island owned the state, the capital, several ministries. This only increased the chaos, because according to good Hungarian custom, even the Hungarian public authorities could not agree with each other who was responsible for exactly what part of the island. This chaos continued to escalate in the 2000s. A few years ago, the disco empire here collapsed, and from this point on, to this day, it has not been clear exactly what the fate of Óbuda Island will be. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. The fact that, according to the news, the government is trying to impose business solutions on the ship's island does not reassure people in the district, either, by virtue of the fact that, by the way, Article III. district people weren't even asked, they didn't even ask what was going on here. I am convinced that if the government really wants to do something with the island of Shipyard, then the business side is not the answer. I think it's in culture to look for the true place of the island of Óbuda. Annex III is amended in accordance with Annex III to this Regulation. district today is the city of culture, the district of culture, with rich programs. The Óbuda Summer Festival, which begins in the days, is distinguished by its diversity from the summer programs in Budapest. Therefore, it is right that the people here would like to finally receive the island of Óbuda in a cultural sense. By exploring and transforming the governor's palace into a museum, the historic reconstruction and the transformation of the yard into a museum, a museum district that is completely unprecedented in Central Europe would be created here. We could be able to connect Roman memories with memories of the birth of modern Hungary and the birth of a modern factory by further strengthening the park function of the island, further strengthening the museum function. I think this is an unprecedented opportunity that could be important not only for me, as a historian or as an Óbudai, but also create an extremely important cultural value for the whole country. I ask you, Mr House, to consider the fact that Mr III is a member of the Committee of the Regions. Óbudai Island, not in the context of difficult business solutions, but in a cultural sense, and it should be a solution for the settlement of this vile area that is in everyone's best interests. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-06-02-125	Thank you very much. István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, applied for a post - agenda address: "The Constitutional Court slaps two thirds and the Hungarian Academy of Arts. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-02-126	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the current events of cultural life, the May Other in Politics does not want to go without saying a word. In this speech, I would like to talk about the issues concerning the Hungarian Academy of Arts, the topicality of which is given by the decision of the Constitutional Court a few days ago. For a year now, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has turned to the Constitutional Court to destroy certain provisions of the Law on MMA in the framework of ex post norm control, as they go against the provisions of the Fundamental Law. On 28 May, the Constitutional Court stated that the rules of the MMA did not meet the requirements of the Fundamental Law on several points, calling the attention of the body and the legislators to the constitutional requirements as a serious criticism. In 2011, the MMA Act provided that only members of a particular civil society organisation could become members not only of the Academy but also of the latter membership. According to the Constitutional Court, this raises serious constitutional concerns, which goes against the requirement of neutrality or plurality. In the case of this civil society organisation, these aspects are not regulations, which is, of course, correct. Although the MMA cannot exercise public powers, it has been given a role in the Hungarian cultural sphere by distributing cultural grants and by the ownership of cultural institutions, which can decisively influence the possibilities of artistic creation. In relation to the public body raised to the statutory level, there have been a number of objections from the May Other Politics in recent years. We have said for a long time, which has therefore been confirmed: the operation of the MMA violates the provisions of the Fundamental Law. The general meetings of the MMA are not properly publicised, and there is virtually no control over this public body. Think about it, three of the five supervisory board members are delegated by the MMA itself, one by the government and one by the Cultural Committee, also by a majority of governments. In particular, the LMP did not recommend anyone to the Board. Despite these serious problems, and according to the leaking information, MMA's weight and powers will continue to increase in the future, György Fekete's interests may also take over the tasks of the NKA, the National Cultural Fund in some form. The government wants to have a more important role to play in the distribution of cultural resources. Perhaps it was the last unparalleled outburst of Imre Kerényi, who summoned the spirit of the Kadár times, that announced the continuation of a well-known cultural struggle. We would like to see culture finally freed from the net of political power interests, from the constant struggle, if it were not to serve those who are committed to one side and cast out the actors on the other side. Unfortunately, in this continuous conflict of interest, MMA is one of the strongest bastions on one side, an increasing bastion. Rather, cultural policy should not be about the commitment of the own side and the displacement of the other side. In LMP's cultural policy, there are not different sides, but the community as a whole, in particular the more than 3 million people who have not been reached by the cultural policy aspirations of the past decades. In Hungary there are more than 3 million people who are not reached by the aspirations of cultural policy, they are simply outside this circle. Instead of strengthening their own position and the money distribution systems, they should finally be dealt with by the government, the power. That's what we're proposing, that's what we're asking. Thank you for listening.
u2014-06-02-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. For a post - agenda speech, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, representative of Jobbik, applied: " Honor to all Hungarian teachers. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-02-128	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have heard a speech before the agenda on the occasion of Teacher's Day, as it is the first Sunday of June about educators, those who pursue this profession. It is a bit false, however, that the secretary of state spoke on the occasion of teacher's day from the benches of the governing parties, who has been actively involved in the total destruction of the teachers' lives over the past four years, in the reversal of the Hungarian education system and for many educators in the unlivable development of the pedagogical career. [[19.20]] But in fact, it is literally a profession, a profession that is really important. It is important from the point of view, it doesn't matter what attitude, what attitude, what attitude people are dealing with our children, thus establishing their future, thus building up their next profession or life, their careers, and thus we can say that the fate of the whole country, the future of the whole country. Not to mention that we are actually talking about a profession that doesn't end very often either with retirement, but with the end of the teachers' lives. I am also saying this because in my city, Tatabánya, there is an urban educator pension club, which is not only about getting together and talking about their own profession or meeting people with similar interests, but also about organizing the local retirement cultural life. And not only does the local pensioner organize a cultural life, but they are actively involved in organizing the cultural life of the whole city. This is also a fine example of a profession that, if actually performed as a sacred profession, is performed only on the last day of his life, he will finish only on the last day of his life. And we can't forget the people who work in my field of social education on teacher day. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people who do not work as teachers with education. Today, many people, out of college and university, are unable to work or teach in their own profession, and, unfortunately, in many of them, it remains a forced career to care for their own livelihoods in one of the local social institutions or even in a child protection institution. And we must also remember those who work in these workplaces as teachers in their chosen profession. We cannot forget them because they are unfortunately disadvantaged against teachers in public education on many issues, whether we are talking about wages or we are talking about working hours or we are talking about the burden of work a lot. I don't want to distinguish between jobs and jobs and jobs. They're both just as hard. Similar challenges need to be addressed by teachers working both in education and in the social field. It is therefore expected that they should be treated equally. This professional discrimination, experienced by teachers in two different fields, is unsustainable and unfair. The government would have a duty to change that. Of course, like the teacher's career model, they are now talking about a social career model, but at present we are talking about the fact that, according to statistics, people are looking for the worst on average in the social sphere. And that average includes teachers working there. There is a need for a normal social-life model, and not only did he throw away some forints in crumbs due to legitimate indignation, which really does not help the situation of the workers in the sphere. Indeed, we would need the HUF 30 billion a year needed to compensate the social sector for wages and pay supplements. This is how we can make sure that there is no difference between a professional and a professional with the same qualifications, only in other fields. In addition to expressing my respect for all teachers in Hungary, I also wanted to draw the attention of the government and the public to this anomaly. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-129	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Zoltán Magyar Jobbikós, MEP, also spoke after the agenda: "The execution of Kishantos is an example of government arrogance and unscrupulousness. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard speeches on the case of Kishantos from several opposition groups, and I would not go into this detail, since everyone who is interested in this topic will find excellent summaries on the Internet and in the professional journals. Rather, I would like to draw attention to the motivation that was most likely behind the steering wheel when it executed this model economy and bled it out. The existence of the spirit is freedom - it is on the website of the model economy in Kishantos, and I think it is a good sign of the existence of this work, of this community, and this single quote clearly points out its everyday life. Indeed, this model economy has set examples for many of us in many respects, whether professional or human. The design of the sample farm began in '92 with the involvement of German and American professionals, and everything seemed to be going in the right direction, as, regardless of the status of government, they did not help, or at least left this sample farm alive; until spring 2013, when the ominous sounds from the Ministry of Rural Development had already been leaking out of the Ministry of Rural Development, they seemed to be in the right direction, and the National Ground Fund Management Organization took away 452 hectares of Kishantos, which, after all, worked as a state land, but in Kishantos's treatment for two decades. So, as of November last year, the National Land Fund Manager has given this area to others, and that's where the Calvary really started. For the most part of the lies that, for example, were dumped on Kishantos by his wallet and leaders, it has been proved that not a word is true. They said, among other things, huge debts, which Kishantos claims to have accumulated in connection with public land leases. And, as I mentioned, this turned out, for example, that there was no thank-you relationship with reality, or the lawsuits that had begun, and it turned out on the good part that Kishantos was inside, he was in possession, and the law was protecting him in many respects, and we think he was right. By the way, while government-close oligarchs are stealing billions of state aids - and EU subsidies - in Hungary, we have seen statements showing that 70 percent of agricultural development aid in Hungary is ripped off by 7 percent of companies in a given year, compared to the government talking about Kishantos's crime of taking too much support from Hungarian farmers, among other things. If you look at the numbers and compare them with reality, you can see here that Kishantos is an absolute small part of it, we are talking about a hundred or a few million forints per year, while, as I said, the close oligarchs of the government are certainly taking away most of this cake. I am talking about many tens of billions of forints in this regard as well. The question is, if this model economy was an example internationally and worked well, yet what could be its crime, what could be government motivation really. I would like to highlight three things here. On the one hand, of course, the value of the land, the return of the land, they wanted it to be with your friends, and they have now achieved most of that. It is not that local family farmers were given these areas. Of course, there are some of them, but the greasy bites have now been clearly taken by your friends, mayors, various interests associated with you, while so far the community has benefited from this land. There is also a motive for the close attachment of your former State Secretary, József Ángyán, to Kishantos. In this respect, we cannot classify it as an unscrupulous vendetta, as the former Secretary of State has correctly pointed out the errors of your land law and the stinky cases around the National Earth Fund. That's why they're trying to take revenge on him in this way. In any case, there is a message character for Kishantos, and that is that anyone who dares to go against you, who dares to express another opinion, does not give mercy and therefore violates any rules. Even the Ombudsman expressed his disapproval in this regard, where he would even ask the Ombudsman for basic legal protection to Kishantos, he considered it to be of such value. But you didn't take that into account. I think you should finally think about this unscrupulous arrogance, which, among other things, we can see in this case, where it will lead. If Jobbik comes to government, of course, he will immediately restore the model economy and create similar ones across the country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-131	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Sándor Bodó, a Fidesz representative, applied for a post - agenda address: " Eastern opening, visiting a Chinese delegation in Hajdú-Bihar County. " You have the floor, Congressman. [[19.30]]
u2014-06-02-132	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, when two countries, their two governments and prime ministers, conclude a cooperation agreement with each other, it is right to ask the interested inhabitants of the country whether this agreement, this negotiation, will be and what will be the continuation of it. In good cases, there should be visible signs of this during the weekdays as well, and the Hungarian-China agreements, which have recently been concluded at a high level, have been a noticeable sign in the county of Hajdú-Bihar in the last week, when the delegation confirmed by the embassy and Chinese experts visited our county. There were obviously signs of this visit, and I could highlight three key events. Each one that, in my opinion, basically determines the future fate of our narrower country. One was linked to training, education, the second to tourism, and the third to the economy. In the field of training, I have to say that we can see encouraging signs, because this year at Bethlen Gábor High School, an entire class is studying Chinese, it has the opportunity to learn Chinese, and at the University of Debrecen, where there are 30,000 students, 80 Chinese students continue their studies. The successful part of the meeting, the series of negotiations, was that it was agreed that Hungarian students could also visit Chinese universities in the future and continue their studies there. I think that broadening secondary school education and university training is in any event intended to ensure successful cooperation between the two countries. The next important issue was tourism, which, I must say, could also be one of the outbursts of the county. An outbreak point, I believe, is known either by Hajdúszoboszló or by the Tisza coast, Hortobágy or Debrecen outside the borders of the country, but it all enriches our country with natural and cultural value, which is entirely justified in giving it the opportunity to introduce itself across the border. We also saw an excellent opportunity for this during the negotiations, and regarding health tourism, there seems to be considerable interest in China's Chinese part. The most important, however important all these things are, and I do not want to rank them, is economic cooperation, in which concrete ideas have been formulated, for which the Hungarian economy must be prepared, and the potential of this must be exploited. In particular, there is an increasing interest in the food industry and agricultural products from China, which includes the purchase of pork, beef and, in particular, the purchase of agricultural technologies. Many may say that China is so far away and that it is almost impossible to achieve it, but in today's circumstances, the product can reach China's cities in 12 hours, and I think there is plenty of technology that will make this work and make it possible. And, of course, in addition to broadening economic relations, it is important for Chinese visitors to make sure that under what conditions we can produce a product of quality. To the old intellect that any quality can be sold on the world market, it must now be dropped, since that is not the case. On the other hand, this professional group visited, for example, Bihartorda, where quality products could be produced, but there is clearly a legitimate need to be able to produce purchases in volume. This discussion has been an important result in bringing the actors closer together, but, of course, we are not even close to the end of the road, because in the future, in consultation with the Chinese partner, further details must be discussed by a professional delegation that will bring this matter forward. In fact, my contribution seems justified because it is important for an intergovernmental agreement to have a next stage, a next step, when actors see each other locally, get to know each other, make concrete offers, and obviously all of these are examples that can be followed and take forward the economy of a given region, a given district. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-06-02-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Gergely Farkas, a betterman, applied for a post - agenda speech: " You can do more than you think. Let us work together to reduce the pain caused by the Trianon decision. "You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In a few days' time, the anniversary of the 4th of June, the Trianon peace dictatorship 94 years ago, the peace dictatorship and the date on which the public knows very sadly very little about it. If we went out on the street today and asked some passersby, we would find that, unfortunately, most people do not even know what happened on June 4th, what anniversary we are remembering. On this basis, Jobbik's youth department launched a campaign titled after this agenda: you could do more than you think. Our goal, among other things, with this campaign, is to distribute tens of thousands of flyers in over 200 settlements of the country, to remind people that, unfortunately, there is an actuality of this anniversary, and we have a responsibility, and we have an opportunity to do so. These are the three questions that often arise in people who consider this anniversary less important. It is common to wonder what the actuality of this is; as they say, why it is necessary to rip up the wounds from June 4th year to year. That's not what this is about. Unfortunately, 94 years was not enough to settle the issue of the Hungarian minority across the border. It is enough to think of only a few recent events: the Szekler flag in Transylvania; we know very well that the Szekler community, the Transylvanian Hungarians there, wanted and wish to achieve this symbol in public institutions, private institutions, and the government of Bucharest responded with a tremendous outrage and arrogance of power, and they forbid the use of this flag. But we can also see in Upper Hungary that it has not been resolved to this day so that Hungarians there can take on Hungarian citizenship. The Hungarian beatings are regular in the south, there is no need to go too far. Two months ago, a group of young Hungarians was assaulted in Obecs just because of their ethnicity. But the graffiti and the Serbian graffiti are regular, expressing that the Serbian population does not tolerate the native Hungarian minority living in their homeland. Not to mention Transcarpathia, where one of the first tasks of the new government recently was to tighten the use of minority languages and make it impossible for the Hungarian minority to use their Hungarian mother tongue in many settlements. So there is an actuality to this question. The next question that might arise is what is our responsibility in this whole matter. I could close this question by saying that Dezső Szabó said that all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. But I would go beyond that, and I would also like to say that, unfortunately, a lot of people forget that 94 years ago, these people who came across the border did not do this because of their own decision, but without asking them, they took their citizenship, and they came under the jurisdiction of a foreign state overnight, and I think that the minimum solidarity, empathy, which must live in a nation, in the people making up the nation, must also be manifested in this way, and we must take responsibility for Hungarianism there, and we must help them in every way possible. The third question is what can we do, because many people also ask as a question what we can do on this issue. And that's what our campaign's password means: you can do more than you think. I mean, we have a lot of options to help ease the pain caused by Trianon. One of the most important things is to talk to as many people as possible in the mother country, to make more people change their thinking, because unfortunately, the socialist brainwashing of forty years has achieved in many people that they do not regard these people as siblings, but as Romanians, Serbs, or even who knows what nationality they are, despite being Hungarian citizens. It is therefore necessary to change people's thinking and to talk to as many as possible so that this does not arise as a question of why they should be helped. We can also do a great deal by supporting their autonomy efforts, which is a solution that is not a permanent solution, but a step forward in order to preserve Hungarians beyond the borders. A European model, which is common practice in many countries. But we can also do a great deal by visiting not only the beaches, different wellness hotels, but also the cultural values of historical Hungary, our historic places, our castles and churches, to the joy of the hospitality Hungarians there, thus supporting them. So we have a lot of potential to do with twin city relationships, build personal relationships, more than we know. That is why it is very important that we establish that there is an actuality, we have a responsibility to the issue, and we can do so, and it is very important that as many people as possible do so, and that is what we are trying to draw attention to with this campaign, the campaign of Jobbik's youth. We hope there will be results, there will be effects. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[19.40]]
u2014-06-02-135	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Lajos Kepli, Jobbikos, spoke after the agenda: "A new season, old problems, a picture of the situation on the shore of the Hungarian sea. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As in recent years, so in the present and in the future, I have been trying to pay particular attention to one of Hungary's largest national treasures, Lake Balaton and its environment. As a local resident, Balaton Coast Representative, I see the local problems with my own eyes, and many people come to me to tell me their comments and complaints. I have spoken here on several occasions, in the church of the nation, for the sake of Lake Balaton and its surroundings and for the sake of the local people, of course. I started my first parliamentary term in 2010 in the spirit of the fight against the moods ruffled by the planned airport of Szentkirályzabadja, and later the topic was the water level of Lake Balaton, illegal uploads and constructions, fishing, fishing, fishing, and many other topics involving people living at Lake Balaton on a daily basis, of course, as well as tourism and job creation. At the end of 2012, I have already outlined the shortcomings that hinder the resolution of the problems in my post- Agenda. One of the most important things that has been waiting for you since the fact that there is still no single concept is still no master of the Hungarian sea, Balaton, who can act effectively in all areas, but as many sectors are taking this matter away. But let's take a look at what's going on around Lake Balaton right now. Last spring, at the beginning of summer, the local press heard a great deal about the start of the elimination of illegal uploads and entrances with the involvement of public workers. According to the then survey of the water department, there are 470 unlicensed entrances and 370 illegal shorefills around the Lake Balaton, so it is a significant, large number of illegal constructions and uploads. The most outstanding areas are the Balatonmaria Baths and the Zanka Beach, where within a kilometer there have been nearly 50 illegal beach uploads or stests. The plan was to dismantle 400 public workers, which, unfortunately, remained a plan. The cost of liquidation would have exceeded HUF 400 million. It would have passed if the liquidations had taken place, but nothing has happened to this day. All this remains is a promise and a plan, and nothing has come of it. We have repeatedly said that around Lake Balaton we also set a well-known Croatian example that we will break down first and then ask questions, as our neighbors did on the Croatian coast with illegal luxury forks. We would also like to take action against these illegal installations with a much greater rigour and determination at Lake Balaton. Around Lake Balaton, there are a number of properties that have been created and maintained completely ignoring the current legislation, and virtually the people living there or the creators of those properties believe that if they have enough money, they can play through all the regulations and all the laws. After all, the fines are paid laughing and the maintenance permits are granted for these properties, often when concrete concretely cemented the lake bed and built into their properties, their vacation homes in the lake, as in the case of the famous UFO base in Balatonkenese. Let us not forget that 30 percent of the coastal area of each Balaton coastal settlement should in principle be a freely accessible beach, in the form of a promenade. However, since the entry into force of the Act, the Balaton coastal municipalities have not been able to comply with this obligation for more than ten years. It remains a question of when to expect solutions to the problems, illegal uploads, constructions and dismantling of the shore, in Hungarian, the return of Lake Balaton to the Hungarian people. On the northern shore of Lake Balaton, it is often necessary to walk kilometers to Hungarian people who arrive, often with small or small incomes, who can no longer afford to spend even on various services, because there are simply no free beaches; the Balaton, which is a public property, is blocked from the Hungarian people. It is also a matter of particular importance to regulate the water level, which is a matter of every year, where it is too high and too low, but it is never possible to find a sensible solution to protect the interests of property owners on the southern coast, or to protect Lake Balaton from dehydration in a more droughtful year. So we need a rational water management, a sensible concept here, which takes into account both tourism and environmental aspects. In recent months, there has been a great deal of confusion about the cessation of fishing on Lake Balaton, which clearly has reasonable reasons, but it has created a problem, such an impossible situation that you can't buy Balaton fish in restaurants on the shore of Lake Balaton, and they even sell kegs and bass imported from Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Romania, so it's simply a nonsense situation. How can we build tourism on Hungaricums, our peculiarities if we do not allow that? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Practically a few more problems could be listed [[The president's ringing again.]] , the ideas remained ideas...
u2014-06-02-137	Thank you very much.
u2014-06-02-138	We need a unified Balaton concept, that might be the most important message. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-02-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Also, after the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát came forward: " Who is stopping the flow of refugees? ' The title is given below. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-06-02-140	Mr President, Dear House, In recent weeks, two memorable demonstrations have taken place in the vicinity of the Debrecen refugee camp. The question is who and why they protested in this place. For example, MigSzol, an organization called Migrant Solidarity, organised a demonstration in which they raised their voice against the alleged cruel detention and inhuman treatment of asylum seekers. It is worth examining the history of the problem. Since this camp worked, and since some of the members who lived there were allowed to walk in and out, the news has been about the robbery of two young girls with knives, the stabbing of two young Hungarians by two Iraqis in front of a nightclub in downtown, and the arrivals have broken into cars, stolen clothes from the courtyards of gardens around the camp, and their roads are bordered by shoplifting, scams, and the everyday lives of those living in the area are impossible. It may not be a coincidence that Jobbik, such as Robert Herpergel, immigration expert and other members, have demonstrated and organized a torched parade, and the success of fact-finding articles cannot be a coincidence. However, it can be seen that the recommendations of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee and other liberal organisations, which are quite amazing, from the end of the asylum-guarded reception centre to the deployment of those aliens who, if any, arrive in Hungary in an unidentifiable manner after the tearing of their papers, cannot be established even their country of origin and age; however, many of them are outcasts from the Islamic countries, public criminals who even there were found to be few for long-term participation in the community. When these people arrive in Hungary today - once again, by tearing up their documents - let us look at what they are getting. They get accommodation from Hungary. They receive education, three meals a day, one warm meal, or the equivalent in cash, as well as monthly spending money, 7130 forints per month, even after infants, and once a month's hygiene package. This and the food cans are typically sold on the market. I must say that 90 percent of the above - with a gross average - are financed from the state budget, the remaining 10 percent can be applied for by the state in the European Union. On the other hand, Migrant Solidarity, organizing a protest against Hungarian interests, claims on its website that instead of the Hungarian State, the EU will cover the costs involved. It would therefore be worth considering what has led to the amazing situation that the Hungarian Helsinki Committee and its co-organisations object to the following. They object to the inconvenient benches in the camp's TV rooms, so normal movies and games cannot be watched by asylum seekers. They object to the fact that the city concerned only spent 112 million forints to improve the comfort of refugees, but this is not enough because the sight of concrete fences is overwhelming for them. Once again, we are talking about guarding and, if necessary, closing people who have continued to threaten and threaten public order and public security. This is the objection of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee that they feel outrageous that the camp guard deals with campers in rubber gloves and in medical masks in some cases, it is, after all, an exclusion, in their view, while it is people with exotic diseases who often cannot find the country of origin. [[19.50]] Therefore, the situation calls for a solution, especially because of the appearance of male and female prostitutes in the vicinity of the camp. An espresso is essentially occupied by a flood of refugees, some of which can walk out of the camp, and indeed local ladies are no longer safe to travel in the area. That is why the demands of local civilians - and I think, regardless of party sympathy, the local reasonable, thinking people - who want to make the camp completely closed and then move it to areas outside the inhabited area are absolutely justified. As regards immigrants with unknown identities, it should be pointed out that they should be tried, where appropriate, to be expelled from the territory of Hungary. At the same time, taxpayers cannot be expected to finance all costs instead of those here. It would therefore be appropriate to consider the public work of the persons present here and who do not necessarily prove the intention of integration. We cannot expect Hungarian taxpayers to bear this burden alone. We must say that the number of similar asylum seekers arriving in Hungary has increased 7-8 times over the last year. Among them are common criminals, including those who wish to live only on the social system. From tax payers in Hungary and honest citizens [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] neither their funding nor any sacrifice of public order in accordance with the interests of liberal organisations and the interests of asylum seekers can be expected. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-06-02-141	Thank you, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the spring session will take place on Friday 6 June beginning at 11 a.m. Thank you for your work. Good evening. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 7:52 p.m.]]
