u2014-11-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. ? The members of the MSZP fraction shall open their notebooks, whose cover covers, in turn, have a national colour and an image of the EU flag.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and József Moring will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech before the agenda: a report on the meetings of the Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
u2014-11-24-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked for the floor here at the National Assembly with a traditional purpose today. I would like the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to give the Parliament a report on the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Council and the General Affairs Council of the European Union in each case. Since these two bodies met last week on Mondays and Tuesdays, I now have the opportunity to inform the Parliament about the decisions made there. Ukraine was, of course, the most serious topic on the agenda at the Foreign Affairs Council. I am pleased to inform my fellow Members that a decision has been made to suit the interests of Hungary. In view of the fact that we are a neighbouring country, we have a double interest: firstly, to establish a negotiated solution as quickly as possible and, secondly, to ensure that Ukraine is a politically and economically stable country. At the Foreign Affairs Council, a broader approach, along with Hungarian consensus, aimed at putting the crisis in Ukraine in a broader context than ever. There are three elements to this. On the one hand, at the Foreign Affairs Council, Foreign Ministers agreed that we should maintain political dialogue with all actors on the basis of the Minsk Protocol. As a second element, we also agreed that an appropriate response should be given to violations of international law and breaches of Ukraine's territorial integrity. This was the purpose of the declaration of the Visegrád Four and the Foreign Ministers of Great Britain, but this was the purpose of the decision taken by Germany and Great Britain following a joint proposal, following which further separatists were initiated to be banned, and the specific proposal will be prepared by the European Commission by the end of this month. Thirdly, we have made it clear that structural reforms are needed in Ukraine, that a clear reform agenda needs to be established, and that we encouraged the establishment of a government as quickly as possible, and that decentralisation and the importance of minority rights have been included in the text of the conclusions in accordance with the interests of Hungary. In addition, the conclusions highlighted the role of countries providing so-called reverse gas flows, and we were pleased to report that the interconnector for the interconnection of gas supply systems in Hungary and Slovakia also ensures that new deliveries can be made to Ukraine. In addition, on Monday we officially launched the European Union advisory mission in Ukraine, and I think that we Hungarians can all be proud that this mission is led by a Hungarian person, Kálmán Mizsei. This was also the first decision signed by the new High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs. On the other hand, I would like to inform the Parliament and my fellow Members with respect that the so-called rule of law initiative was on the agenda at the General Affairs Council. Hungary's position is clear. The Commission already has the means to express its wish to raise or have this type of criticism. We have never supported, nor will we support, stealthy amendments to the treaties, but we also have a constructive attitude to this matter, of course. The consensus reached at the General Affairs Council is that the intensity of political dialogue on the rule of law is important. Accordingly, the Presidency will prepare the decisions necessary to launch this mechanism for the General Affairs Council in December. At the same time, it points in the same direction as the Hungarian position that everyone at the General Affairs Council has pointed out that if such a mechanism is established, the aim should be to strengthen solidarity between Member States and not to undermine it. To this end, all of us have drawn attention to non-discrimination, equal treatment, political bias and evidence-based approaches, which we considered to be good news and good sign because, based on our own example, we have had some bad experiences in the past, but the clear position of the Member States in addition to these values can certainly be encouraging to look to the future. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2014-11-24-2	The Minister's five-minute comment can be answered by the factions within a two-minute time frame. Mr. Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Indeed, it would be welcome if you would speak here, in front of Parliament, on every foreign policy issue that is or is relevant to the country's foreign policy, and presented the government's position and the reality of the events in question. You refuse to appear before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, so we would like to suggest that you do the same in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, because there is also a need to answer questions and there is likely to be more. On the other hand, we have not heard in this brochure why the government is pursuing a foreign policy based on dual speech: when they go to Western Europe, they stress the commitment to Western Europe, and when they are in Moscow, then the foreign minister there embraces you and raises issues and makes statements on issues that are exactly the opposite of Western European interests. We have not heard in this brochure how the Member States present today judge Hungary, how the corruption scandal that the Hungarian government has been involved in has been echoed in these Member States. We have not heard of this opinion. We have not heard in this report of what controls you, Minister, in your personnel policy, because hundreds of people are being dismissed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while a whole football team is about to operate there. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. At the first informal inter-party consultation, you indicated that an external action plan is being prepared, which we call an external action strategy, in which you would like to have a national minimum, but we do not see any evidence of this, we did not receive any material, but the confusion in Western Europe and in Moscow, that is the characteristic. I cannot accept what you have said. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-4	Now, András Schiffer, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, First of all, I would like to thank you for your intention to build a tradition. I would just like to add a few points to what has been said. It is, of course, welcome that the European Union integrates the principle of decentralisation into its Ukraine post. Of course, this can be seen as a Hungarian success. However, we must be aware that Hungary can only acquire alliances within the European Union or even in the world if it pursues a value-oriented foreign policy. With a commercial foreign policy, we will not have allies to protect the self-determination efforts of Hungarians in Transcarpathia or anywhere else in the Carpathian Basin. In addition, it would be important for Hungarian diplomacy to make it clear that, in this crisis, in this war situation, it strongly condemns Russian empire building efforts, Russian aggression, and to make it clear that Hungary's foreign policy strategy has no place on the side of various eastern dictatorships. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Before you speak so timidly of the attempt to strengthen legal certainty within the European Union, the rule of law - of course we do not like stealthy treaty amendments? Let me point out, however, that the rule of law, strengthening legal certainty within the European Union, means that all citizens of the European Union know their assets and know their savings safely. Shouldn't there be a state in Europe? Is that what Hungary is today? Where people cannot be safe about their wealth, they cannot be safe about their acquired rights. So I think that it is in the interests of the Hungarian people to have a strong system within the European Union [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that protects their wealth, their rights. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-6	Now, Mr. Richard Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to thank Minister Szijjártó for his actions in the Council of Foreign Ministers in Brussels last week in relation to Ukraine in accordance with the representation of national interests, when he stood up for the protection of Ukraine's territorial unity and sovereignty and the interests of the 200,000 Hungarians in Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, the Fidesz Group has consistently expressed the foreign policy orientation that Ukraine, as our eastern neighbour, is of high strategic importance for Hungary. The protection of our fellow nations living in Transcarpathia is also required by our Fundamental Law, and I believe that the Hungarian Government will act accordingly. On the other hand, Ukraine also requires increased attention from the point of view of Hungary's energy security. Ladies and gentlemen, This opinion has not changed since the crisis started, nor has it changed today. In line with the Visegrád Four and the majority of the EU Member States, it is in Hungary's primary interest to resolve the crisis in Ukraine on a negotiated basis, and to this end we cannot allow it only because it is a prerequisite for Ukraine's western integration to establish peaceful relations. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, can contribute to this process, because the general debate on the association agreement between the EU and the Member States of Ukraine, signed in July this year, has been concluded in this House and we can vote on it tomorrow. I believe that this is also important for peaceful settlement in Ukraine [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the EU Member States? So Hungary, too? stand up for the Association Agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2014-11-24-8	Now, in the name of Jobbik, Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2014-11-24-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your report this morning on what happened in the European Union. Of course, with regard to Ukraine, we have said many times that we are in favour of peace, peaceful settlement and dialogue, and we consider respect for international law to be a priority, only when Ukraine violates these rights in its own territory. I very much respect the intention that has finally been born a year late in the European Union, but at the same time it would be good for the European Union to respect the values it carries for itself and to say that it represents it, not by double standards, but by realising the extent to which minority rights have been violated in the territory of Ukraine before they sat down for dialogue with the European Union. Respect for minority rights is very important, and we consider it very important that the process of decentralisation is underway. At the same time, we have been very concerned about events in Ukraine that make the rights of minorities to use their language impossible, constantly creating obstacles to autonomy efforts, redesigning electoral boundaries in Ukraine so that minorities cannot send their chosen delegates to the Rada in Kiev. These processes should be stopped and brought to Ukraine before the European Union sits down with them on European integration processes. As regards constitutionality and legal matters, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is very concerned about the process that has started in the European Union since Maastricht and has accelerated since the Lisbon Treaty, where the European Union has constantly taken rights that are about how the rights of nation states are to be affected. We reject this effort, and we want these issues to be discussed here in the European Union, not Brussels, to be involved in the affairs of the nation states. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-10	Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, a member of the KDNP faction, applied for a speech before the agenda today, to the death of Povl Bang-Jensen. Fifty-five years ago, the re-negotiation of the Hungarian case in the UN began with its title. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-11-24-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, History is always written by the winners, formulated by Napoleon for many two centuries. History? as the master of life? However, he has repeatedly shown how the once defeated will become victors, and the once forgotten heroes and heroic acts will burst out of darkness into sunlight. Our revolution in November 1956 and subsequent reprisals forced our most committed countrymen to emigration or silence for many decades, and condemned all those whose homeland was not Hungary, but their hearts beat with our country in the autumn of 56. We Hungarians have also experienced how our defeated heroes and martyrs in the years of the change of regime have become victorious, and the increased spirituality of their rehabilitation or re-municipation has become a catalyst for such changes. It is therefore our duty to remember and remind. But not only must we remember the heroism of the sons of our country, but we must also preserve the memory of foreigners who, despite the great pacts, have taken on the international representation of the Hungarian cause. The Danish diplomat, Povl Bang-Jensen, who died in suspicious circumstances exactly 55 years ago, also stands out from among these great people, who was willing to risk everything in order to take up the Hungarian cause. In January 1957, the UN Committee of representatives of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and the five countries investigating retribution was set up. Second Secretary Bang-Jensen took on the lion's share of the committee's work. In secret interrogation, Committee Five received 111 persons who participated in the revolution, most of whom had asked for their names to be kept silent, fearing the revenge of the Kádár regime, leaving their relatives and relatives at home. The preliminary report of the committee came to light in June 1957, and by clearly stigmatizing the intervention of the Soviet Union, the invading of our country, the bringing into power of the communist Kádár regime, it actually caused a very serious international complication. According to many, this situation could then have been used to prevent further retaliation. However, this option was essentially sabotaged by the UN leadership at that time. In fact, as our happy brother Varga Laci put it, Jensen was instructed to pass on the names of the Hungarian witnesses as a result of the international strengthening of the Soviet Union. He refused to do so on the basis of his word, burning the list of revolutionaries, for which the Danish diplomat with five children was suspended from office and then fired. Later, he received temporary employment in a refugee relief organization. He left on a cold morning in November 1959, but he never arrived. At the General Assembly of the United Nations, another round of negotiations on the Hungarian case was due on 25 November 1959, and on this day Bang-Jensen, otherwise left-handed, was found at dawn with the right temple through Alley Pond Park in New York. Ladies and gentlemen, In 1990 in Hungary, the Danish diplomat Martyr was declared a Danish hero of the Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence, in 1991 he was decorated with the Memorial Medal for the Revolution, and in 1992 a Hungarian plaque was inaugurated in Copenhagen. On the 50th anniversary of his death, a memorial statue was erected in the hall of the Bem Square building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, making him the only foreign person to have a statue in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. With all due respect, I would ask you to remember Povl Bang-Jensen and all the known or unknown foreigners who claimed to own the Hungarian cause of '56, our refugees were taken in and helped, or even fought unselfishly to let the world know the truth about 1956, the sacrifice of the Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-12	In response, Minister Péter Szijjártó has the floor.
u2014-11-24-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Thank you for these commemorative thoughts. We agree with you, Mr Vice-President, that it is our duty to commemorate Povl Bang-Jensen. The Danish diplomat, as secretary of the United Nations Special Committee on Soviet occupation and repression of the revolution, has also been personally involved with the survivors and the survivors' families, and these meetings have convinced him that he must stand up for the truth, that is to stand up for Hungary, the Hungarian people. Does it have to be mentioned at such a memorial? Are you absolutely right, Mr. Vice President? that the diplomat refused to give out the names of the Hungarian witnesses whose testimony clearly demonstrated that the revolution was the victim of a foreign intervention. The Danish diplomat's attitude sends a very important message to Hungary as well. It could be translated in a way that any will that seems overwhelming must always stand up for ourselves, for the truth. Mr. Vice President, The Danish diplomatic bust really stands in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the history of the Danish diplomat also plays an important role in contemporary Hungarian diplomacy, since on 23 October this year, Housekeeper Márta Mátrai and the first vice-president of Danish folk singing wreathed Bang-Jensen's tomb in the Copenhagen Solbjerg cemetery together and gave a speech in memory of the Danish diplomat. [[13.30]] Finally, Mr Vice-President, allow me to inform you that, on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the 1956 Revolution, we have set ourselves, with Danish-Hungarian cooperation, the goal of placing a monument similar to the statue set up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to commemorate the Danish diplomat's resting place in Copenhagen. Thank you very much for your commemorative sentences here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-14	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. András Schiffer, the leader of the LMP faction, is now coming with the title of new fidelity. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, A beautiful picture appeared before us on 18 November: the Hungarian Prime Minister first handed over János Flier's cattle farm in Felcsút, János Flier's biggest winner of the field competitions in Felcsút, and the wife of Viktor Orbán with the Flier family; then she passed by the Alcsút box, where the Prime Minister inaugurated a Mangalica plant; Lőrinc Mészáros, who owns 27 percent of the state land in Fejér county, inaugurated his Mangalica plant. The image of decades earlier is one: the appointment of the members of the national bourgeoisie announced by Viktor Orbán in Tusnádfürdő in the summer of 2013. Let's see the steps in a row. One of the winners in the tobacco market is Continental, whose leader was János Sánta in Hódmezővásárhely, the first version of the Traffic Act was born on his son's laptop; his interest and the interests of this group gained 500 tobacco shops. We have seen this amendment from our colleague Hörcsik, who, by chance, was in Tátonaljaújhelyi, which gave this group a tax discount on cigar products; we have seen lex Philip Morris or the bill for centralised distribution, which also benefits this group of companies. But we could mention the CBA, which is the winner of the Fidesz-style malltop law, the establishment of the food chain monitoring fee and the retail special tax on this market. In the energy market, we saw that the MET, one of the main owners of which was István Garancsi, and with him a certain wallis circle in symbiosis; we know, we are talking about the group of companies owned by Bajnai Gordon. This company was able to register a dividend of HUF 50 billion in 2012. And then we can talk about Andy Vajna, who won the concession right of casinos in the vicinity of Budapest. They're the new Overlords. What you can see in these steps is that you are using positive goals, using them, talking about reducing smoking in the tobacco business, saving children, and selling ice creams in these tobacco shops, for example. The plazastop was originally introduced by the LMP; it is not about cutting down large business centres; it is about those who can build a large business centre that you appoint. And, of course, it is a positive goal to reduce the multinationals in the Hungarian national economy, but if you look at the final result, that is not the case: the multinationals who make alliances with the appointed new feudal lords can remain. It is a constant feature of these steps that the state, among them, is at a disadvantage to taxpayers. The MVM Partner gave MET the cheap gas by pouring at least HUF 10 billion into an unknown location. In 2013, the casinos in Budapest generated a profit of 7 billion; we do not know why this profit had to be deprived of Szerencségy Zrt. and why it had to be given to Andy Vajna. And what we can see is that behind these big businesses, various offshore threads are unraveled: Andy Vajna continued to keep his film business through various offshore interests, and Curaçao and the devil know what other interests he has, and his casino business, according to 444 reports, is also full of various offshore interests. MET also has various offshore strands, so the income pump, the cash pump, remains on the Hungarian national economy. In those markets, Fidesz and Viktor Orbán are building their own monopoly, which is not a favourable one, the smaller small-scale players are not protected by anyone, there is no solidarity. This is the tobacco market, this is the gambling market and virtually all where you now appoint new vassals. The designation of beneficiaries by means of a state legislative instrument is nothing more than a new fidelity, institutionalized corruption. Dependence is not an alternative to an economy dominated by one-sided multinationals. Controlled, transparent conditions, domestic SMEs, strengthening the population, strengthening the local economy, ensuring the independence of the people and the country at the same time [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] this creates clean relations, and such a policy can really create real new jobs. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-16	Mr. András Tállai has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Congressman! I do not wish to respond to your personal statements, I think that this is generated either by envy or political gain, but if you think that there is an illegal act in relation to the undertakings of the persons concerned, you know that, then you should press charges. I would rather talk about principles and see if the LMP agrees with the principles that the government represents. The first thing I would like to talk about is the representation of Hungarian interests, the representation of Hungary. It is in Hungary's interest that LMP has such an interest, in the interests of the Hungarian nation, or, if you like, in the interests of Hungarian businesses, because if you can adopt this principle, you will obviously have to agree with, for example, the regime for reducing the rent. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who's talking about cutting rent?]] By... you talking about the energy policy of multi-company companies, that's what I'm answering. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Me?]] The creation of the resziholding, which will be owned by the state, will serve the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. But the same is served by bank accountability [[Dr. András Schiffer: I didn't tell you about this!]] settlement of the issue of foreign exchange loans. I am talking about Hungarian interests, the interests of Hungarian people, but the adoption of laws and laws for the protection of Hungarian land served the same purpose. But we can also give an example of foreign policy: it serves to protect Hungarian interests, the expansion of Paks or the future construction of the South Stream gas pipeline. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We disagree. ? Dr. András Schiffer: I didn't say that!]] Another principle that you or your party disagree with is the principle of proportionate public burdens. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What?]] which basically has two parts. One is that all income is taxed, every person who earns income is subject to taxation in the Hungarian budget. The second is that companies, those owned companies, sectors, sectors that have not been involved in public burdens, should participate. A good example of this is the example of the bank tax, which, of course, you did not support and others did not support in Europe, but in the end, Hungary was followed by ten or a few countries on this issue. I think that first we need to clarify the principles between your party and the governing majority. We understand that you do not agree with the representation of the interests of the Hungarian people, you do not agree with proportionate public burdens, which, in any case, concerns non-Hungarian-owned enterprises and investments, but these governance, I think, has become fully its principles. So when legislation is the government, it presents the legislative proposals to Parliament, it has only one purpose: the protection of the interests of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, the interests of Hungarian families, and the strengthening of their situation. I think that we could continue with the principles that, of course, you do not agree with, I agree: for example, the principle of work instead of aid, the legislative proposals before us, or the principle of support for families, the extension of family tax relief. [[13.40]] These are all principles which, of course, the LMP disagrees with, because it seeks to enforce other interests in Parliament. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what I'm talking about!]] I think that [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what I'm talking about, Mr. Secretary of State.]] the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament along these principles, along the interests of the Hungarian people [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're pathetic!]] He makes his decisions, so? If you like it, if you don't like it? He's gonna do it again next year. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-18	Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-19	Mr President, Dear House, News of impertinent, almost market-priced forintation has ruffled the moods in recent days. I suppose all my fellow Members' mailboxes are filled with those letters of protest and outrage. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right.]] which do not come by accident at all, since the government intends to carry through an unjustified withdrawal of a thousand-billion-dollar amount of income towards banks, a legalized robbery, by qualifying and proven fraudulent transactions in whole or in part, but says that they are legal. They tried to alleviate the situation by trying to prevent the re-release and increase of the repayments by regulating the so-called interest rate premium. But this only affects part of the process, not the so-called reference rate and spill-over international processes, which further exacerbate this very difficult situation after the apparent concession. Is that what you're saying? That's what a government representative said on TV yesterday? that there is probably no international scenario and spill-over effect that would result in a new increase in the repayments of those concerned. Now, we've heard that before. We heard this on 26 January 2006, when the Banking Association published a booklet in which, in essence, it was to be able to take on so-called foreign currency loans, as the forint is expected to grow in 20 years compared to the Swiss franc and the euro. The then government was silent and, more importantly, the then opposition was silent, neither its demonstrations nor its protests, nor the bulk of its amendments were found in Parliament's information system. It's talkative in itself. In 2006-07 did some of the materials of PSZAF also show that the forint was overrated in that situation? According to one of the research that's in front of me, 22 percent? , so it does not deteriorate to the extent justified by market developments, ergo it could be expected? And that happened in 2008? that the forint is going through a dramatic deterioration. And the money was paid by the Feds. It was clear, and many of the profession knew in advance what could be expected. But I would like to emphasise once again that not only was the then government accompliced in silence, but also the opposition at that time. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: That's right.]] Right now, they're saying that the Curia is gonna tie your hands, that it's not gonna be possible to fully sort out the credit-damaged situation, and that it's not gonna be possible to regroup all their stolen money for them. However, the Curia's specific findings regarding the margins and the costs of unilateral transfer were not a clear, relevant decision on the exchange rate that would bind your hands. It is no coincidence that at your press conference you said there were constitutional concerns, you referred to the Constitutional Court, you referred to the Mansion; none of them were true. The government's own decision, the result of its pact with the banks, is that it seems to have them accounted for, but in the background they agree on their capacity to carry loads, how much they can bear, and some of the unwarranted assets can still be held by the banks and financial institutions concerned by the legalisation of the Fidesz government. It is not true, then, that outside circumstances bind your hands. Nor is it true that the banks concerned had acted legally. Then they wouldn't have failed the lawsuit against all the states, and the civilians wouldn't be able to show up 220 victories where nothing was said, because the contracts didn't correspond to Hpt, Ptk. or nothing. Jobbik called the so-called currency-credited round table under the roof. We have invited representatives of the parliamentary parties, the government, the Ministry of National Economy, the Banking Federation, along with all the relevant civil society organisations and legal defenders. Interestingly, you didn't do it, you didn't pay any respect on these occasions. And now they've presented their proposal to legitimize financial trash without dared to face the people involved. So I suggest that you go out to the victims who are gathered in Kossuth Square and who are here tomorrow during the vote, and talk to them, and ask them how they see this problem, because you have made a pact with the banks on their behalf. In that spirit, I would also like to pass on the petition which I am obliged to pass on, since you have not received it from them. And I must also say that, at the expense of the undue profits of the Hungarian National Bank, a compensation fund should be set up to help those in the most difficult situation. But more importantly, until the financial waste package is withdrawn? And I'm asking you to rescind this for trial and develop a proper package? Until then, the civilians involved will be forced to enforce their will on the street. Of course, Jobbik will join their demonstration tomorrow as well, in addition to taking back the street within the framework of a very large-scale demonstration in the capital on Friday, and we will not rest until we regroup the last unwarranted forint from the damage banks to the victims, because we cannot settle for less. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-20	On behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert is responding. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a serious responsibility for the development of foreign exchange lending and the damage caused to those in government between 2003 and 2010, who have done nothing to solve the problem. From 2003, the government, which was the rule of law, closed the interest-supported HUF loan and the central bank's base rate was also high to offset its overspending measures. As a result, forint loans have increased significantly. On the other hand, banks were able to withdraw foreign currency sources and lend them as loans at low interest rates compared to forints. Low interest rates have made foreign exchange loans extremely attractive for the general public. This was the real reason for the start of foreign exchange lending. The exchange rate risk of foreign exchange loans was already reflected in the initial phase of the financial crisis in 2008. Then the forint against the euro and the Swiss franc weakened by about 20 percent. Until the establishment of the Orbán government, banks have passed exchange rate changes on to customers without limit and in full. On the other hand, immediately following the government's formation in 2010, it began to eliminate the very serious inherited situation in which hundreds of thousands of families could have lost their homes because of foreign exchange-based mortgages. In order to help those in trouble, the government practically prohibited the issue of new foreign exchange loans as a first step and made the use of the central rate mandatory for repayments. In addition, a number of other measures have been taken to reduce the problem of foreign exchange loans. Among other things, he made it possible to pay off. Nearly 170 thousand debtors made use of this option, the debt thus released was about 370 billion forints. It introduced an exchange rate fixation to dampen the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. By the end of September 2014, 186 thousand foreign exchange taxpayers concluded such contracts. The most difficult debtors were protected by the government by the eviction moratorium, preventing them from getting out on the street. In addition, the National Asset Manager can provide a real solution for foreign exchange lenders. Nearly 23,000 apartments were offered to the National Asset Manager by the end of August 2014, so that more than 100,000 people were insured. By the end of the year, 25,000 apartments and 110,000 people will be safe. The soon-to-be forinting has many advantages. On the one hand, the exchange rate risk of borrowers and the banking system, as well as refunds and forinting, will reduce the repayments significantly. In addition to the payments much lower than before, the remaining capital debt of the debtors will also be significantly reduced. Because of the refunds, banks have to pay back around HUF 1100 billion to customers. An average currency-loan earns roughly one and a half million forints from banks. On the other hand, refunds under the Curia's decision could easily disappear if the Swiss franc could be further strengthened without forinting. Thus, after the forinting, there is no need to fear that the repayments will increase unpredictablely. Finally, it was necessary to forint foreign exchange loans on a market basis because if conversion had been carried out at a reduced rate, foreign exchange lenders would be significantly better off than forint lenders. Credit institutions also get rid of the risk posed by foreign exchange loans by forinting. [[13.50]] In recent years, the Hungarian economy has grown so that banks have not helped businesses by lending. The government expects that by eliminating foreign exchange loans, there will be a chance that bank lending will start next year, which will support the investments and developments of Hungarian businesses, thereby contributing to growth. With the forints, we can end the irresponsible, economic and human credit period caused by the policies of governments operating between 2003 and 2010. Thank you, honourable Member and honourable Parliament, for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-22	Mr. József Tóbias, head of the MSZP faction, will now come with a title on our current affairs. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-23	Mr. President. Dear House, The citizens of Újpest and North Angyalföld told you yesterday that what Fidesz is doing, what the government is doing, it cannot continue. This is what the tens of thousands of people in the capital and in the country protested against the introduction of an Internet tax. Is this what the tens of thousands of people who have voiced public uproar in the government's questions about the NAV scandal have been sending out in the last few weeks? If allowed in parentheses: to date, we do not know which minister Ildikó Vida indicated his involvement; if anyone answers, would you help us to remove this doubt, would we thank you? In recent weeks, the tens of thousands who, as teachers and teachers, have gone out on the streets in order to ensure that the centralized, silly education system that takes away autonomy takes away professional competence at the same time and at the same time indicates the impossible child poverty that they experience has been sent to you. Over the last few weeks, tens of thousands of people have been sending out a message in protests initiated by the trade unions so that everything they have acquired will not be undermined by you. In 1889 the Újpest people chose Lajos Kossuth as a decorator, who in his famous speech said: "The country is in danger. Yesterday, the people of Újpest, the North Angels, indicated that the country is in danger because of your government, and they also said that they would not ask for it, that they would not ask for any of the customs collectors of hatred at all. This is the explanation that, while we remembered yesterday an irreplaceable loss in the election, the death of our great partymate Péter Kiss, at the same time with much greater results than in the spring, the Hungarian Socialist Party candidate succeeded in winning the opposition. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Your former parishioners remained at home, and there is a reason for this, because their passive resistance has gently sent you a message: what they are doing, they say, is not going to continue. The policy, namely swing politics, which simultaneously declare war on the West, to which Hungary has wanted to go since St. Stephen. It is not possible to continue in the country where the majority of public burdens are intended to be collected through consumption, with the highest VAT on basic foods as well as everything else. There can be no continuation of government where a million workers live below the minimum living age, and they pay the same tax rate as billionaires. The government where, while there is child hunger in Hungary, nearly a third of society is deprived, you are planning to build a stadium of HUF 100 billion, and when you see that it is not enough, you will still take 180 million from child protection to sport. The government that takes away people's private pension savings cannot continue, and after they have burned 3000 billion forints, even those who believe in self-care have a toothache of 200 billion forints. You cannot continue to govern where you threaten civilians, where human rights and human dignity are violated by mass. The government in which foreign exchange lenders are promised substantial help cannot continue, and it is clear from the proposal submitted that there will be no other winners of this bill than the Hungarian National Bank. The government in which the totalitarian state's vassal system is to be built cannot continue. Civil protests in recent weeks and yesterday's election, where the North Angels and the Újpestians clearly expressed their will, were about the same thing. Hungary would very much like to do better, but you will not allow it. They do not leave it with their anti-poorness, they do not leave it with their anti-Europeanism, they do not leave it with their exploitative policies, they do not leave it with their feudal approach, which means that Hungary is slowly in the last place of the Visegrád countries according to every indicator. Hungarians want a fair, solidarity, democratic European policy, law and security, and they chose yesterday accordingly. The Hungarian society, where and when it can, will replace you, within a democratic framework, with responsibility and dignity. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-24	András Tállai is the honor. Here you go. [[Moraj, interrogations in the ranks of the MSZP: Let's hear it!]]
u2014-11-24-25	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Party President, Congressman. First of all, I would like to say that yesterday it was not parliamentary elections, but the election of a representative of the Parliament in Újpesten, which the socialists have already won. We congratulate you on this, but do not confuse that a seat of representatives, a mandate, does not yet mean a majority in Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No one said that.]] It doesn't mean a complete will of the people, and it doesn't mean that someone wants to replace the government. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Stay in this faith!]] The parliamentary elections were held on 6 April and on 6 April the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP were authorised to continue to govern. So what Mr Tobias said was that he could not continue to govern was decided not yesterday, but on 6 April 2014 and by a convincing majority, because the Fidesz-KDNP majority had a two-thirds majority, which is why he could continue to govern for the benefit of the people, because that is why he was given the right to continue. The current question for Mr Tobias may be how many people are going out on the street, by the way, I would like to say that those who go out on the street are asking that neither the MSZP nor any opposition party should go there, because they do not want to. [[Uproar, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] So you do slide when you say [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that those who go out on the streets with their democratic rights and protest against a decision or a decision that wasn't born anyway? such as the extension of the telecommunications tax [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] ? They think you're doing this for your party, the MSZP. So it's a strong slide that you stand up in Parliament and speak on behalf of those who protested on the street in certain cases, because they asked you not to go there, and they didn't ask you to speak on their behalf in Parliament, by the way. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Noise.]] By the way, these are not the current issues for the governor's majority. [[Noise.]] The current issue is that this week the Parliament will adopt two important laws, the law on the forinting of foreign currency loans and the law of fair banks, which will close the foreign exchange loan case for over 600 thousand people and 350 thousand parties involved for the long term. The current question for the majority of the governors is whether they will discuss and adopt the budget, which is about supporting families, improving the economy and creating jobs. The current question for the majority of the governors is to keep Hungarian people's overhead costs low. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to protect the values that he has achieved in recent years by reducing the cost of gas. The current issue for the majority of the governors is to raise the wages of teachers and raise the wages of law enforcement workers and defence workers next year, which will amount to 44 billion to the budget. [[14.00]] The current question for the majority of the Hungarian Parliament is how Hungarian families can raise family tax incentives and create more and more jobs. [[Continuous noise in the lines of the MSZP.]] The current question for the Hungarian parliamentary majority is how the European Union can devote its support to the development and strengthening of the Hungarian economy, the 2500 billion planned for next year's budget. I think that the Hungarian society, Hungary, the Hungarian people, in agreement with the governing majority, are the current issues, not what the socialists are talking about. Thank you very much. [[(Unique applause in the pro-government benches. ? Great applause and ovation in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Lukács: Bravo! It was great. Great. Get back! ? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Fantastic.]]
u2014-11-24-26	I do not know why my fellow members of the opposition on the left think that you need to hear less self-control than the representatives of the government. [[Zoltán Lukács: We don't think so.]] Yet, the majority of the government succeeded. So I'd like to ask you in the future, I didn't mean to interrupt you because I didn't want to stop what András Tállai had to say, and you tried to stop him. [[There's a lot of noise and interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You tried to stop him from working hard. I've seen, I've noticed the special attention you've shown to the Secretary of State in this direction. I'd like to ask you to try to be human in the future. Thank you. [[Uproar, constant murmuring in opposition benches. Spectacular applause in the pro-government benches.]] The last among the speeches before today's agenda is Mr Antal Rogán, Head of the Group... Those who fail can safely leave the room. Anyone who succeeds, Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai, may leave the room until I reject you. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Congressman Antal Rogán has the floor.
u2014-11-24-27	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the president and group leader of the Hungarian Socialist Party attach great importance to the fact that they managed to defend the mandate they had acquired in April. Of course, after all these failures, I believe that this is the source of the joy of the socialists, but I would add, honourable group leader, honourable fellow Members, that all this means that everything remains as it was decided by the electorate on 6 April. The mandates in Újpest and Angelland are yours, the majority in Parliament and the two-thirds majority in government parties. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth adding that I would like to congratulate the Socialist Group on the fact that, in the meantime, Gábor Simon managed to pay the 100 million forints that had been cancelled earlier this week. [[There's a surge in the MSZP faction. ? On the opposition side, how did Kósa go to New Zealand?]] We will have time to clarify the issues in this regard in other cases. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, many of the important issues that have been raised in recent weeks have been addressed here, also in this House. I am thinking here, for example, of career plans in relation to the budget. Perhaps it is worth pointing out, ladies and gentlemen, that there is also a huge difference between attitude and attitude here. We still remember when you took a month's wages from teachers in 2009 at the request of the IMF, without further ado. Now, I see that they do not say a word when, as a result of the budgetary decisions of the last few years, it is the teachers, or the profession whose income has perhaps increased the most in Hungary than in any other profession. A teacher's career programme has started, where salaries have increased by 30 percent on average for the first time, and will also increase in the coming year, my fellow Members. After all, the teacher career program continues, including wage increases will be higher than in all other professions. Ladies and gentlemen, Fortunately, life plans can continue in other areas, law enforcement organizations, the military, the police. And if we can finally repay those loans to the EU? Not for the IMF, because we've already done it there, but for the EU? What you have recorded at the time, we may be able to finally introduce the social career programme for those working in the social sphere in Hungary, because they do deserve it, my fellow Members. We have worked on these, and we want to continue this work. Just as we would like to continue this work here in this House, because the decision is before us, if possible, to close the issue of foreign exchange lenders in Hungary and to remedy the injustice that has occurred because you forced foreign currency lenders into foreign currency loans, and you have not ensured that they are protected when times are difficult, my fellow Members. Because let's not forget, in 2009, when the decision was in your hands, you did one thing about foreign exchange loans, you adopted a code of ethics, which, of course, the banks didn't have to follow at all. [[Intervention on the opposition side: Járai Zsigmond!]] I would like to highlight this simply because, if I remember correctly, this code of ethics was also a priority for the adoption of this code of ethics by Mr Tobias. At the time, in 2009, when you were the majority, this was the best way to protect foreign exchange credentials. Compared to this, this House now has the opportunity to complete the accountability of the banks, which has never been seen anywhere in Europe. As a result of bank accounting, we can reduce the repayments by 25-30 percent and finally eliminate the exchange rate risk by converting these reduced interest-rate loans into forint loans so that the repayments remain lower and the exchange rate risk will finally disappear for many years, the credible will be in a stable position. Ladies and gentlemen, This would be particularly good if, contrary to the Legislative Committee, the decision, which, in turn, prioritises low-interest forint loans, was supported here in Parliament. At the request and at the initiative of the Fidesz fraction, the Legislative Committee of Parliament adopted a decision that would convert foreign currency loans into loans with lower interest rates than ever before at the time of the forinting. These two together, accounting banks and low-interest forint loans will lead to foreign exchange lenders paying 25-30 percent lower repayments in Hungary than before, so that the banks can't change them at last, since we will stabilise interest rates and repayments for more than five years, and there will be no more exchange rate risk. Ladies and gentlemen, These are important questions for the Hungarian families, and I trust that you will sometimes give your support to this in Parliament. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-28	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László will respond. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-29	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Thank you very much for the speech by my fellow Member, Mr Rogán. There is indeed a great problem in this House if the socialists are to sit at a celebration of joy instead of in order to clean up and face reality in their own home. [[Zoltán Grumpy: Is that what you're saying, the one who gave money to all his friends?]] Ladies and gentlemen, This morning, the press was not filled with the results of an interim election, but with the possibility of indicting Dezső Believing. Maybe that's what we should be dealing with. In recent days, the press has been full of what we have heard from my fellow Member, Mr Rogán, that from uncertain sources, Gábor Simon paid a great deal of money to the Hungarian tax administration. Let's get you cleaned up around your own house. Let them finally face the fact that, thanks to the corrupt activity of your politicians, voters do not know where Gábor Simon had several hundred million forints in his bank account in Vienna, they do not know how he finally paid over 100 million forints from what source to the tax authority. This should be dealt with, fellow Members, with their unorganized, guilty, corrupt affairs with Hungarian society. [[Zoltán Pride: Is that what you're saying?]] And then, after that, let's talk about who and why Hungarian public opinion supports us. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it unworthy that my fellow Member Tobias, in the matter of foreign exchange credentials, spoke in his speech before the agenda, which he is allowed to do. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last 8 years, between 2002 and 2010, you have enslaved Hungarian society, the whole country, Hungarian businesses and Hungarian private people. [[It's a lot of noise. ? Zoltán Lukács: Doctor!]] You have forced this society into a foreign currency debt slave. They haven't done anything about it in years. In the last four years, the second Orbán government has acted effectively to help foreign exchange lenders. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where is Lajos Kósa?]] You reluctantly, reluctantly voted in favour of some of our proposals, just to maintain the appearance of credibility in any way. In fact, it was our government that helped foreign exchange lenders with a number of instruments, and it is our government that otherwise intends to lead this faulty banking solution out of lending practice. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rogán was talking about the point. [[Lajos Kósa enters the Chamber. ? Interviews from the MSZP fraction: Lajos Kósa is here! ? Bravo cries and sporadic applause in the same place. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] [[14.10]]
u2014-11-24-30	Members of the MSZP Group, please get your shit together. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is not the Metropolitan Grand Circus, but the Hungarian Parliament. Please. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Please respect the will of the electorate. As a result, Secretary of State L. Simon now has a way of answering to you, not the other way around. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand that yesterday's success has caused you such a great euphoria; I don't know what it would be like if you were near at least 50 percent of the House, you would simply not be able to handle it, but you would run up and down here like children after football. [[Noise, interruptions, clarity.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to listen to me, and I have also listened to you; I have listened to Mr Tobias' nonsense, so that I may not put it this way, and we have listened to it with dignity. So, ladies and gentlemen... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What nonsense? ? Zoltán Lukács: Be human!]] This can't be happening.
u2014-11-24-32	Secretary of State, please continue with what you have to say.
u2014-11-24-33	This can't be happening. Well, please, you see. [[It's a rush from Jobbik's ranks.]] You see, my fellow Members, and television viewers, how unworthy you are in this House. With regard to the career model, I think that my fellow Member Rogán has said all the important things. Hungarian voters cannot be deceived by you; Hungarian voters are aware of what we have done in the last four years with the introduction of the pedagogical career for the Hungarian pedagogical society. Hungarian voters know that after many years, even after a decade, this government will also fix the wages of uniforms. That we are introducing a career model and a pay sign that has not been experienced in the last decade. Ladies and gentlemen, In Parliament, let us try to focus on what interests people, focus on what is, by the way, before us, and not mislead voters, because you will not succeed. [[Zoltán Lukács: Will it happen to you?]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-34	Dear Parliament, Thank God we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to ask Ms Erzsébet Schmuck to present the speakers who are not on the agenda, and there will now be a few minutes for my fellow opposition Members to calm down. Try it.
u2014-11-24-35	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: István Simicskó, KDNP; Bernadett Szél, LMP; János Volner, Jobbik; László Teleki, MSZP; Szilárd Németh, Fidesz. On Tuesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; István Ikotity, LMP; László Kiss, MSZP. On Wednesday, Mr Benedek, LMP, submitted a statement after the agenda.
u2014-11-24-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, the speech by the keynote speaker on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. We are now voting on the amendments to the agenda. The LMP Group suggested that T/2055 on the change in the currency of each consumer loan contract and on the settlement of issues relating to interest rate rules. The debate and decision of bill No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of Parliament has not accepted the proposal. We're now deciding on Fidesz's motion. First, we will decide on the proposals to take it off the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/1709 on the amendment of laws relating to the establishment of a central register and to certain administrative matters. The debate and decision of the Bill No 1 shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the "Communicatates Fortissimae"? T/2062 on the villages of loyalty The debate on bill No 1 at this meeting should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the order of the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that today the 2007 II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals T/1168 amending Act No. for bill number T/1708. Following the discussion of the conclusions of the amendments to the legislative proposal No. Anyone who agrees with that, please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group suggested that CLXII of 2009 on credit to consumers tomorrow. Act T/1997 amending certain related laws Proposal No 1 and T/2055 on the modification of the currency of each consumer loan contract and the settlement of issues relating to interest rate rules. T/1960. It shall take place after the final vote of bill No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear House, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Now, at 2:18 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How are our children deprived of the right to knowledge? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-11-24-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think that Saturday and Sunday events could convince everyone that what my colleague, Mr Rogán, painted was not in reality education. My teachers' colleagues and parents were scared when the Fidesz government declared that they wanted to re-introduce a series of unnecessary false reforms in education. The picture that is drawn from your plans, and which is reflected in the budget, is deplorable. You have done everything under your control to reduce the chances of access to education. They began by lowering the age limit for compulsory education; they continued to create a textbook chaos; they planted a malfunctioning water head on the neck of education, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, which, thanks to you, has only increased the already settled confusion in public education. Their new plan is to reduce the number of high school seats and, as a result, to transform the school system into a kind of caste system. They make virtually all kinds of social mobility impossible. However, none of their arguments support the planned reduction. Our high schools are currently over-subscribed six to seven times. 74-78,000 full-time high school students and secondary school graduates each year, 56-68,000 of which continue to study. These statistics are the data of KSH and Felvi. So it is the intention of significant masses, significant high school crowds, to continue their studies in college and college. They're the ones you intend to take away this chance from. Their goal is to train and train young people who are unfit for employment and further education. By reducing the number of high school seats, it is likely that the number of higher education institutions will also decrease. Where does that lead? Where will the number of graduates of tertiary vocational education and training integrated in higher education also fall? Is this a reform of vocational training? They're trying to cover themselves by developing vocational training. In the meantime, however, this is not the reality. The number of theoretical hours in vocational training has been reduced to an unprecedented extent, the confusion, the legislation and the maintenance environment of schools have been constantly changed, and, as it is now apparent, will be changed. Dear Minister, Why are you letting the budget destroy a system that's been working well for 25 years? Why should an entire age group be afraid that they won't be able to go to college? Why do you have to leave a generation on the side of the road? Don't you think, Minister, that this step will only increase the number of young people fleeing abroad? Thank you for listening. [[14.20]]
u2014-11-24-38	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know, honourable Member, few people can take the words concerned about education with credibility from the MSZP which, during its governance, closed the rural schools, from the MSZP that wanted to introduce tuition fees in higher education. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: But you introduced it!]] and only one referendum prevented it, and the MSZP that took a month's wages from all Hungarian teachers. This MSZP is concerned about the state of education and the state of higher education. [[Nándor Gúr: What are you talking about?]] Let me correct the inaccuracies or untruths you've made. The age limit for compulsory education is often reached. [[Why are they protesting?]] Honourable Member, in Hungary, the Hungarian state gives everyone the opportunity to learn free of charge. In primary schools, in secondary schools, and in universities with a state scholarship to higher education. Who wants to study in Hungary and obviously has the ability to say, to go to university [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Who has money! If you don't, you don't learn.]] Or go to high school, you have the potential. In Hungary, basic, secondary and higher education is guaranteed free of charge. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Is the top too?]] Honourable Congressman, You're talking about textbook chaos, while you know very well that the percentage of errors in the various textbook deliveries was below 0.25 percent, and they also came from the fact that certain private textbook printing works and publishers didn't send the textbooks in time. [[Continuous noise from the benches of the MSZP.]] That's why talking about textbook chaos, I think it's irresponsible. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Has everyone received their textbooks?]] because not only did we manage to deliver these textbooks in good time, but the traffic results that Kello produced can be confirmed by more than HUF 100 million in school libraries. Not to mention that we've managed to fix something out of it, maybe even make a better system of what you've developed before. There was a national, state-owned textbook publisher in Hungary for 150 years. The socialists added to the textbook supply that a 150-year-old public-owned publisher was privatized, privately managed to generate profits [[Interjection between Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Ágnes Kunhalmi. ? It's constant noise.]] Don't be good for the students, but be good for those few owners. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: For the children!]] The one who can skim the profits. This year we were able to save both taxpayers and families a billion and a half forints by breaking down these textbook prices, and 650-700 thousand children received the textbooks for free, and the number of them will continue to increase in next year's budget, and there is also the collateral for this, so that third graders can get their textbooks for free in the ascending system. Why did you need to touch the system of public education and education? Mr President, you say that everything was very beautiful, that everything was very good, and that in 2010, we were satisfied with everything. If you had read the PISA reports that were published in 2009 or 2012, you would have thought that those who delivered textbooks might have been good, but the situation of those who studied in those schools certainly had something to improve. That's why you had to touch it. That's why we had to bring all the schools under the umbrella of this unit, this Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, which will be able to manage additional budgets next year. You like to say that state aid in higher education and in the whole system of public education is reduced. I don't know how you calculated that with a cocoa-proof calculator or a non-coke-proof calculator, but that's for sure. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: At least use it!]] that for KLIK there is an extra HUF 50 billion in the budget for schools, HUF 209 billion for public education for secondary schools instead of 196 billion. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: The IT education was taken from the children!]] So there's an extra 13 billion forints. It is certain that further wage increases for teachers, which will go far beyond inflation next year as well. [[Nándor Gúr: Read the budget once!]] , secured in the next year's budget for HUF 38 billion. You also like to scare me that next year's budget will be able to read a radical reduction in the number of high school seats. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] Mr President, there is obviously nothing from a budget, as in the previous year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In Hungary, you can go to high school if you have the right intention to go to high school or meet the entry requirements. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-40	Although the Member's reply in return has already been advanced by his fellow Members during the speech of the Secretary of State, I will nevertheless give you the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-41	Thank you for your generosity. I'm afraid I can't accept the answer. I can't accept it, because not only did you not convince me, Mr. Secretary, but you didn't convince the teachers who were protesting against you. He didn't convince the young people in the gallery that you're going to take away the opportunity to learn. You're not convinced by that answer, and neither is your education policy to people. [[It's constant noise.]] There is no country on the planet in the last five or ten years where the schooling obligation has been reduced, only Hungary. There is such poverty in this country that children starve and starve in my constituency, Obuda. [[L. Simon László: Stop it!]] The only reason there was no chaos in the textbook market last year is because you think [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because the system was so bad, the teachers couldn't even signal back in the electronic system you provided. The CLIK, which you praise, works so badly that your due diligence had to be encrypted. We don't even know what's in it today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For this reason, I cannot accept the answer, and I ask Parliament not to accept it either. Thank you.
u2014-11-24-42	I ask the House whether it accepts the Secretary of State's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 112 votes to 47, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What happened to the promise of a million new jobs, and when will the government create value-building and stable jobs instead of statistical cosmetics with public works? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, which is competent according to the subject. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, When Fidesz won a two-thirds election victory in 2010, it came to the fore by announcing the programme of one million new jobs and adding in the election programme that one million new jobs will be created by businesses in Hungary. We have been waiting for this miracle for four and a half years, because it would have been a miracle if, with such a restrictive economic policy, businesses had started to create jobs in Hungary. Compared to this, we have seen Hungarian businesses becoming increasingly ravaged, the black economy in the overtaxed economy is on an amazing scale, the rate of avoidance in taxation is increasing, the taxes themselves are increasing, the EU and the world record is, for example, the outstanding 27 percent VAT rate in Hungary. In no small part of this, unfortunately, employment expansion in the Hungarian competition sector has not been created in the past, which is, in fact, negligible, even smaller than the economy itself is expanding. Moreover, the SAO's report on this point pointed out that there is a significant lack of employment growth. It is also interesting to see how the government cosmetates employment data with more and more public workers. In April, right in the month of the elections, Hungary had 211 thousand public workers. Employment figures looked very good, at least compared to the previous few months. In May, however, these 211 thousand public workers were reduced to 98 thousand, and 113 thousand people ceased to be public workers from one month to the next. Of course, the election was over, something had to be done, they sent these people away so they didn't have to pay them. However, we can see that there are unfortunately not enough jobs in Hungary. Currently, 600 thousand Hungarians are forced to work abroad, because you are pursuing an economic policy together with your socialist predecessors that people are unable to find a job in Hungary, they are unable to ensure their livelihood. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]] Young people are in a particularly serious situation, with a quarter unemployed for young people. In the case of people over 55 years of age, employment appears to have only 4 out of 10 jobs, and this applies to people under the retirement age but older than 55 years. What are you talking about when you say the country looks good, that the economy is pounding? That's far from it! People's daily experience, the facts, the escaped 600 thousand Hungarians [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's issued a certificate for you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-24-44	Sándor Czomba has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin with a few facts. The facts: Hungary has a workforce of over 4 million employees for more than 10 months. It hasn't happened in 22 years! In Hungary, more than 10 months ago, the unemployment rate fell below 10 percent, based on the latest two figures, to below 8 percent. [[14.30]] Hungary has been able to achieve the largest decline in the whole European Union in recent years. What if we do some math with the numbers? Of course, we obviously know that the situation is quite different around Győr and, say, around Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County? If we are talking about average numbers, let me draw your attention to the fact that in 2010 there were 3 million 750 thousand people working in Hungary in April at the time of the change of government; in the autumn of 2014 4 million 180 thousand. If I pull the two numbers out of each other, we're talking over 400,000, 430 thousand new jobs. If we were to take it on a pro rata basis, we would say that we are not in a bad position for one million new jobs by 2020. We are regularly accused of yes, but public employment and migration. Then I would like to draw attention to some of your facts again. Since spring 2010, the number of public workers has increased by 100,000, and the number of migrant workers has increased by 50,000. Has it grown from 50,000 to 100,000 over the four years? I'm talking KSH data. In Hungarian, this means that if I subtract the 150,000 out of 430,000, more than 300,000 jobs were created in the competitive sphere. More importantly, the last year? and observe the data on the KSH? the growth of the competitive sphere is close to 200,000 people. And here's the thing. That's the most important thing. Look, it would have been possible for the Hungarian government to decide in 2010 that we would not wait for the crisis to come out, we would have kept a few hundred thousand people in aid, and if the economy had been revived, we would have tried to channel people from the labour system. This is not the path we chose. We said that until the economy is able to create adequate jobs, we should try to provide opportunities through public employment and avoid crowding people into aid. This is why we are now in employment where we are. I don't think this 200,000 people is negligible. It's huge, usually 30-40,000 annual growth...? The competition sector doesn't produce anything bigger, so I think it's worth evaluating. That it came from you? Let me give you a list of things. A first job guarantee programme for young people starting their careers, 16,000 people are still working in it. There were 24,000 people working in student work this summer. We help young people become entrepreneurs: we give jobs to 1,500 young people. With the support of NGM alone, more than 24,000 new jobs have been created over the past four years through the SME sector's job creation proposal. You can say we didn't do anything, but I think these facts speak for themselves. What you're saying is that public employment may be dangerous? In a subpoena? This could be a real problem; that is why we need to do it, and that is why we are preparing for the next period to support the possibility of leaving public employment to the competition sector with both domestic and EU resources and with the provision of an appropriate legislative environment in the coming period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-46	Once again, Congressman Volner has the floor.
u2014-11-24-47	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you are, I must say, misdirecting public opinion. When you talk about only 100,000 people working abroad, you will contradict your former boss György Matolcsy: Minister said that more than 500,000 Hungarians work in Western Europe, and now this estimate is made for 600,000 people. Which one of you is telling the truth now, Mr. Secretary? Is it you or someone else? Obviously, the larger number is true [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Almost everyone knows a family, a person who has different family members working abroad. And if you think about what's going on in this country, you can't be surprised that people are running away. You have created quite simply an unlivable country, an unlivable living conditions without job opportunities, which people are running away from by voting with their feet. This economic policy, Mr. Secretary of State, you know, is based on deception and cannot continue in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-48	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 25, with four abstentions. Róbert Benedek Sallai, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. Minister, when will the proportion of small estates in Hungary change to 80-20 percent under the new land law? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor, please.
u2014-11-24-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I may, I will literally not read the question. Of course, I do not wish to deviate from the issue in writing, which roughly suggests that the government and the Prime Minister had more promises to increase the proportion of small estates in the entire estate structure to 80% of large estates, which will remain at 20%. My question is that you can now see the practice of the Land Traffic Act. There is a great deal of negative experience, and we are curious about how, according to the law enforcement authorities, this goal will be achieved. At the moment, we do not see the guarantees in the law that would help the small owner to enjoy any advantage over a large owner, and we want to see what is the government's intention, what is the government's means of achieving this goal. At the moment, if a five-hectare resident wants to grow against a 299-hectare resident, the only person who decides who has a pre-emptive right is who is closer, so who, let's say, is the neighbor of the land or who owns it. So the Land Traffic Act, as described, does not, in our view, serve the objective set by the government, and as a question, I have formulated how the government will achieve the tenure ratio promised several times by the Prime Minister if the legislation did not serve it at all. The question is whether you see any results in this since the entry into force of the Land Traffic Act, or whether you can say that the property structure is still going in a negative direction. I'm asking you with respect? if you've been so determined that the responder is Secretary of State Bitay? So that for once you don't talk about what you're doing with state land, don't talk about how many applications there are, because I'm asking for private land. My request would be to tell me how land traffic, the share of sales, serve this purpose. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-50	The floor is for Secretary of State Bitay Márton.
u2014-11-24-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The speech before the agenda has the opportunity to express our opinion so freely, and then responds to it by the Secretary of State or the Minister. There's a text at the interpellation. It's only a problem because you left out half of what you put up, which would make my answer seem a little pointless in many cases, but I'll try to answer you in such hits. The first is that we never said that 80-20 percent would happen overnight. Adding that we're not happy about this, because it would be best if it happened overnight, but there are a lot of legal backgrounds? or ownership? which, in this way, cannot be run over by a tower, but that must be regulated in some way. In his interpellation, which he originally cast, he says that he is very pleased that the new earth traffic law provides an opportunity for foreigners to become more and more backwards from the Hungarian land market. I would like to say more drasticly: I would say that I am being excluded, but I also consider it a merit that you now at least acknowledge that you are becoming more and more deprived. In his interpellation, he asks what is the difference between the old, the new land traffic law, and why it gets better, what we think is the paragraph that says that the proportion of the estate will decrease. Somehow, I'm always in this position. Last time, I had to read from the Earth Traffic Act to Congressman Haughty. Now I'm doing it for Róbert Sallai Benedek; the 16th. Paragraph (2) of the Act:. The estate can be acquired up to 1200 hectares by counting the size of the land already in possession. This pass, or the pair of it, was in Act 94 up to 2500 hectares. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'll show you the beginning of the cow someday.]] And that 2,500 hectares did not include property owned by the cooperative, owned by its partner, owned by the state, and thus the sky could be the limit. And today, it's 1,200 acres that you can use. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true.]] How do you follow these rules? On the one hand, there is an official procedure that controls this and on the other hand there is a land committee, which also has the possibility that if you think that the owner or the person who wants to buy the land is not correct, you can stop. I would like to stress that the maximum number of holdings is not decided by the land committee, it is established in the same manner in the official procedure, and that those who exceed it will no longer have the opportunity to buy new land or to cultivate new land. [[14.40]] All in all, I could tell you that there are direct and indirect rules that will help the great estate to shrink and put family farms first. Direct rules are the land traffic law, or the land for farmers. I understand that this may be a problem for you, why I bring you here, almost quoting you, but we cannot ignore it, because 10 percent of all Hungarian agricultural land is state property, and therefore we have an influence. Here I would be happy to report to you that 40 hectares is the average that a tenant wins for the farmers' programme, which, I think, is a family economic size. An indirect influence is the area payment. Well, over 1,200 hectares, it doesn't cost a penny, even after 1037 hectares, with a minimal drop, but there's something. Earlier, as many acres as he had, he took up this form of support, as many hectares as he wanted, and now this number is gone. So, on the one hand, we transferred funds from the direction of large businesses to family businesses, eliminated the ceiling of 2500 hectares in the former Land Traffic Act, delivered to 1200 hectares. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And from the big farmers who rent state land, we group the state land towards the little ones. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-52	I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2014-11-24-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Obviously, this can't be accepted, since it's mostly bullshit. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: The paragraph? Or which one?]] And it doesn't specifically tell us what's going on. [[Dr. Márton Bitay Örs: Congressman, this is not the genre!]] I didn't read it, I thought you could read it, but then you didn't, because, for example, it doesn't answer at all the question of what size, the size of a plant of the same interest you are afraid of as a major estate, which means you still consider 1,200 hectares of small estates, and you think it's still completely digestible. That's the answer to what you think is the right size. They always come with public tenders, which do not change the structure of the estate, they can change the structure of the plant size if it does not work as it is in the current practice. But even if that doesn't happen, it doesn't have any impact on how land ownership can be transformed with a smaller ownership background, a smaller ownership structure. So I can only accept your answer as a complete misconception. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-54	I ask the House whether it accepts the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the answer by 108 votes to 29, with no abstentions. Dénes Galambos, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy with the title of stable finance, lasting economic growth in next year's budget. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-11-24-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Since the change of government in 2010, economic policy has been aimed at increasing employment, improving competitiveness, ensuring balanced economic growth and reducing public debt and keeping the budget deficit below 3 per cent. All of this has been consistently achieved in recent years, with the result that the fiscal and financial balance has been restored. Efforts to restart growth have brought about the expected positive turn. The fact that Hungary was removed from the excessive deficit procedure since 2014 in June 2013 demonstrates the importance of the results achieved. The disciplined fiscal policy, the significant improvement of the external balance, the decline in the debt of the state and households all contributed to the fact that the Hungarian economy is now on a sustainable growth path, and the country's vulnerability has been steadily reduced. The latest macroeconomic data show that the growth of the Hungarian economy that started in 2013 continued to grow in 2014 and that a healthier, more balanced growth structure has become permanent and there has been a shift. Overall, an increase in GNP of 3.2 per cent is likely to occur in 2014 as a whole. The growth is supported by the reduction of fees, the relief of foreign exchange creditors and the expansion of employment and the measures taken to achieve this, which now increase Hungarian people's real disposable income. These positive effects may continue to increase in the following year, so household consumption expenditure is expected to increase by 2.6 percent. We hope that the favourable processes that started this year from 2015 will continue, which will not exaggerate the calculation of 2.5 percent GDP growth for the next year. Balanced economic growth is coupled with a low consumer price rise, creating a predictable economic environment for economic operators. This year, overall, consumer prices will not increase, mainly as a result of the reduction of the overhead, and we expect moderate inflation of 1.8 percent in 2015. Dear Secretary of State, The above processes and data are the basis for optimism, so I ask how next year's budget will promote sound financial and sustainable economic growth. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-56	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-11-24-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the government's fundamental economic policy objective is to achieve stable, sustainable economic growth. However, if we look back at the period when the government changed, I think it is a very big thing that in 2014 we are talking about the fact that, by examining the growth results, we are at the forefront of the European Union, because, based on our performance in the second quarter, we are in the first place, on the basis of our third quarter performance. We had to make very serious decisions for the government and Parliament to achieve this result. It is true that we expect a thoughtful but outstanding growth result for the next year, as the budget determines the expected GDP growth by 2.5 percent. We hope that with the better performance of the economy, this can be a higher percentage. Together with economic growth, it is very important to be able to create jobs, and it is important to be able to increase demand, as this will have an impact on economic growth, productivity and the creation of more value. The only way to achieve job creation is to help businesses to deliver their development and to implement their market access visions. It is therefore very important that the use of EU funds 2014-2020, 60% of which will serve the economy, basically keeping jobs and creating jobs, is finally launched. But it is equally important to increase demand, because demand can be expanded by more people working, more people having an income, but in itself by increasing earnings, with greater value, even more production and economic growth can be achieved. This is what is being done by the reduction in fees, the settlement of foreign exchange loans, as you said, the low inflation outlook and, of course, the increase in the real value of incomes, including the state's goal of continuing to increase the income of teachers, and of law enforcement workers and defence workers to increase their income by 30 percent. Of course, these career model extensions, designs will continue to expand in the following years, in 2016 and thereafter. At the same time, it is a very important issue that both growth and demand expansion and job creation can be achieved in a stable budgetary environment, as the result that we have achieved is that in 2013 we have been removed from the excessive deficit procedure, the European Union's disgrace stage, this value, this result, that is to say, we need to keep the budget below a stable 3 percent deficit. This is equally true of declining public debt. This is also an incredible achievement for our country, as only three countries in the European Union have been able to achieve and demonstrate this in recent years. Overall, therefore, we want to make economic growth stable, sustainable, with a stable balance budget and a declining public debt. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2014-11-24-58	Thank you. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-11-24-59	Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. The government's three main objectives, namely the strengthening of families, job creation and economic growth, will be supported by next year's budget, said Mihály Varga in his exposé opening the general debate on next year's bill. I thank Mr Secretary of State for presenting the third of these three elements, the details of economic growth, before the Parliament. Thank you for your answer, and I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-60	Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Why do workers have to go out on the street to protect their cafeteria benefits? It's an address. The word belongs to Nándor Gúr.
u2014-11-24-61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Workers get less money while employers sacrifice more for them. How can this happen? Well, thanks to you. It is simply because you decide everything without consulting people, while the Prime Minister talks about the need to consult people. They spend hundreds of millions, billions without even asking people if it's the right direction. Let's look at the system of out-of-wage benefits. They've made up their minds. They've decided, and this decision ends in a public uproar. People go down the street. Then they give in to this street pressure, but they also do so by deceiving people. Think about the cafeteria, out-of-wage benefits? which is accompanied by the training, catering, travel of children, but also by the financing of transport subsidies and catering at work for adults? What did they do? Six years ago, it was tax-free. In 2014, it was paired with a 37 percent tax burden. They have now come up with a plan for 2015 in the spirit of freedom fight to make this 52 percent. Now they're starting to back down, and they're going to say that this should be only 37 percent, only in critical cases they're going to deviate from this. You know, in addition to wanting to increase, increase the tax burden, reduce the amount of available allowances, and over 200 thousand forints can only be used within the framework of the SZÉP card, at least under the same tax burden. One word for it: you wouldn't give people anything like Secretary of State L. Simon or any other fellow Member would talk about it. No! They can talk about it and take it away from them. They are lost, for example, through the cafeteria system, they would have taken 120 thousand forints a year from each individual. They would have taken away the possibility of that. I would also like to add that, and I expect your answer to that, why they always move in such a direction that you have to wait for the sound of the street in order to start thinking or acting in any normal direction at all. Why? Why? Why do they not act to reduce the tax burden that directly affects people? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-62	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2014-11-24-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I must admit, when I first read the title of his interpellation, I thought that he had submitted earlier than Parliament had decided on the tax laws on 18 November, because perhaps the government allowed most of the increase in the burden of cafeteria benefits compared to his original idea, and the Parliament accepted it. Because, contrary to your claim, the tax burden of the cafeteria did not increase to an annual amount of HUF 200,000, which includes a significant part of the benefits, so there was no increase in the Erzsébet voucher, the SZÉP card, the local travel pass, the school start-up allowance or the employer's contribution to the voluntary fund. The amount above HUF 200,000 did not increase the burden if the employer gave it to the employee in the form of a SZÉP card allowance. This means, therefore, that employees can spend this benefit at the same tax burden at Hungarian restaurants and hotels. It is true that the LIGA Trade Unions protested, but in the course of the trial they acknowledged that this demonstration was announced before the cafeteria system was decided by the Parliament. In Kafeteria, they wouldn't have protested against this system. They asked for more tax incentives for voluntary savings, which will, of course, be the subject of further negotiations with the trade union. You mentioned the system six years ago when you were in government. No one wants it back, because the cafeteria system may have been tax-free, but remember that at that time real incomes had been steadily reduced, then you withdrew your 13th month pension and withdrew your 13th month salary from the public. I certainly don't want the system you reminded me of coming back here again. I think that the government, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP, has a clear policy on this, indicating that income must be reduced and that there should be reduced personal income tax. This is why the single-key tax system has been introduced, and within the personal income tax system, family-teachers will receive tax relief, which they can use not only from taxes but also from contributions, so that they will be able to use HUF 240 billion as a support within the tax system. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] And for the cafeteria system, we have clearly stated that we want cash income and income in kind to be closer together, and in the future we want to develop a system that employers can finance so that we do not limit workers' ability to use income, so we should not limit their ability to use services in kind, but rather to receive the benefit that they are now receiving as money and income, and ultimately, they will use it for what they want. It's the government, the governor's majority, that's the purpose of the cafeteria system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. While I am asking Mr Nándor Gúr if he accepts the answer, I warmly welcome all my fellow Members.
u2014-11-24-65	I don't accept that answer. Are you serious? So, the point of the matter is that your domestic union confederation is protesting because they can't stand what you're doing anymore. Think about what you're doing. Are you talking about wages here, Mr. Secretary? Well, the minimum wage is worth less in purchasing power than in 2010. The difference in the minimum wage compared to the minimum wage was much lower than before. People are in a more disadvantaged position. What are you talking about, wages, Mr. Secretary? And in addition to that, let me say, since you've spoken about the tax, they wanted to introduce an Internet tax. It was the public uproar that prevented you from doing this. The fight for freedom was fought in connection with the pálinka tax, and now people will have to pay 1670 forints after 1 litre of 50 percent distillate. [[Alexander Font: That's not true! At least look at the law.]] But I could also say that the municipalities are talking about the imposition of new taxes, and beyond the cafeteria, much more could be said about. Therefore, that answer cannot be accepted, Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Member Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Why hasn't the government done anything so far to resolve the problems surrounding traineeships? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, One of Jobbik's missions is to map problems affecting youth, to propose solutions and to keep the government under pressure in order to take the necessary steps to resolve the problems. [[15.00]] I am asking you now about such a case, because we have a lot of complaints from those involved in vocational training and higher education about their traineeships. This is also a very important issue because unfortunately, youth unemployment is very important in Hungary, which is partly due to the lack of good professional experience, and in many cases this is the reason for rejection when young people are admitted to work. This is why it would have been essential for you to pay particular attention to the problems surrounding traineeships in the last four and a half years, since it is also a concern for future employment and the self-esteem of young people to be used for photocopying, coffee-making and similar sleek work instead of proper professional work. In spite of everything, four and a half years weren't enough for you to do this? It's not an exaggeration, is it? deal with hundreds of thousands of young people and find a solution. Should we not be surprised, then, if such an attitude occurs? What we are unfortunately experiencing with many other problems involving young people? Never seen the heights of emigration in this age group. Of course, we are aware of the plan to introduce dual training in higher education, but as Minister of State László Palkovics explained at the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 3 November: the new form of training will only cover 8 percent of the students, i.e. 8 percent of the students, so it will not solve the problems of the current system, but in just a few places it will breathe into the practical training of the institution. So please don't talk about dual training in your response. Do we all know that employers - taking advantage of the mandatory nature of the practice and the loopholes created or left by the government? Unfortunately, students are often concerned only with their own benefits, often ignoring the possibilities of professional development. Moreover, in a well-functioning system, it should function as a general rule that students performing good practice are given further employment opportunities in the given practical place, but unfortunately, this is not even at the moment at the horizon. Under your governance, almost no action has been taken to encourage employers to pass on professional knowledge to practitioners and to build an appropriate control system so that students can gain real, useful knowledge. The recognition of employers who actually contribute to the professional skills of students with their apprenticeship programmes has also been lost. The potential for cooperation with the strategic partners of the government has not been exploited in most cases, even though it would have been possible to make intern opportunities conditional here. Dear Secretary of State, Many open issues remain in the system of higher education practices, so we see that the government has wasted four and a half years on these important issues. My question, therefore, is why they have not done anything to improve the unsustainable situation of traineeships. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government has not been idle in this area for the past four and a half years. In higher education, is internship part of the training for which it is organised? As you know? the higher education institution must take responsibility. Our new law, CCIV 2011 on national higher education. According to the uniform cross-regulation of law on traineeships: a student contract should be concluded during traineeships where the practice takes place over a period of more than six weeks. The previously indicated government regulation was formulated during the inclusion of higher education vocational education and training in the training system. As regards basic and master's training, the register of professional training places was also defined as a task for the benefit of the training and students, in line with the accreditation of higher education institutions. Based on the current legislation, it is necessary to examine after 1 September 2015 the place of practice of higher education institutions themselves for students in the course of training. I would like to inform the Member that the institutions of higher education have already established and registered with the Education Office, on the basis of agreements concluded between institutions and companies providing professional training places, some four thousand professional practitioners for 20 out of 29 higher education institutions. Their responsibility under the agreements is to ensure the relationship at all times and the review of the operating licence every five years is also part of the examination of the compliance of registered training sites with training and training conditions. Training-related practice means, on the one hand, a continuous link between the higher education institution and the training place, if this is based on cooperation and agreement. This may allow the training site to find a candidate for further employment in the youth participating in the practical training, but the employer does not have such an obligation, of course, unless he succeeds in his/her practice and finds him/her useful, he/she continues to apply him/her. The current legislation provides labour law protection for students in traineeships, and even special protection. It requires that the government, when defining the rules on student employment contracts, may lay down conditions more favourable to the student than the general conditions laid down in the Labour Code, obviously more favourable to the student. [[Erzsébet Schmuck takes the notary seat.]] The student shall be entitled to a mandatory remuneration under the training programme or as part of the training, at least six weeks in the case of contiguous traineeships. The Government Decree of 230/2012 on vocational education and training and certain aspects of vocational training in higher education, adopted two years ago in the summer, regulates the detailed conditions for the implementation of traineeships, taking into account the framework laid down in the Higher Education Act, such as the mandatory minimum content of student contracts and cooperation agreements with professional practitioners. Congressman also asked me what I should not talk about, dual training. In one sentence, however, I would confirm that the introduction of dual training in the field of the dissemination of practice-oriented forms of training is indeed an important step forward for the government, even for your question. You have been wandering around with tendentious statements in general, but I would like to confirm to the Member that the exact reason why we have introduced this legislation, tightening up for higher education institutions, an extra licence for students, is precisely why the institutions have taken this four thousand agreements seriously to ensure these traineeships, because we want young people to use good knowledge and use them at home. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-70	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Gergely Farkas if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-24-71	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I can't accept it. Dear Secretary of State, For four minutes, he presented the legislation in force, the legislation on which he said they were not sufficient, and unfortunately, they contain loopholes that allow students in higher education or vocational training to be exploited by individual employers or not to take part in training in accordance with their professional knowledge for the few weeks when they download their internship programme. In the first part of my interpellation, I have already listed a number of opportunities for what steps would have been needed in recent years, which would have helped to close these loopholes, for those internships where students are treated unworthyly, to be excluded from this program, or for young people to have the opportunity to evaluate internships after they have completed their practical time. There would be many of these options, and you have not taken them, even though it would be necessary for these young people to feel the concern in this way. I ask you to take action as soon as possible, and until then, I cannot accept that answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 34 against and 3 abstentions. Member László Földi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development:, What positive changes are expected in rail transport as a result of the integrated operational programme for the development of transport in 2014-2020? It's an address. I give you the floor. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The railway is a tool for many people to go to daily work, access to educational establishments, and therefore it is particularly important that Hungary's railway network operates with sufficient capacity, predictability and reliability. In previous years, significant rail investments have been made, as well as improvements in railway track development, bridge reconstruction or passenger comfort and civilised travel conditions are still taking place in several parts of the country. The Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme for the 2014-2020 programming period provides a detailed plan for transport investments to be expected in the next seven years. [[15.10]] The current budget of the European Union favours public transport, one of which could be a major winner of rail. The development covers a number of areas, including railway infrastructure, motor trains, passenger traffic areas and P+R parking places that allow for better, safer and more convenient access to the railway. The development of suburban transport in many settlements is also expected, resulting in a better position for public transport in the capital city and in several rural cities as well as their agglomeration. Modern intermodal nodes are also expected to be built, which may significantly reduce travel time by optimising the time and place of transfer. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how much funding the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme provides for railway development. What part of railway development resources has been used to improve suburban transport? What exactly are the improvements to the national rail network? I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the interpellation question raised will be Mr János Fónagy State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary can basically use two sources, the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme and the European Network Financing Facility for transport development purposes in the 2014-2020 budget period. Hungary can hold some HUF 1215 billion from these two programmes, the former, through IKOP, and some HUF 390 billion from the latter. One of the major winners of the budget period in Hungary will be rail transport: up to three quarters of the available EU funds can be used for fixed track transport. It is foreseen that large railway projects will affect some 800 kilometres and, as a result of the modernisation, the average speed of the railway lines that are part of the trans-European transport network will increase significantly, not exceeding 80 kilometres. Modernisation of railway lines will affect a number of stages. The renovation of the southern Balaton railway line continues in the section between Szántód-Kőröshegy and Balatonszentgyörgy. In addition, the section between Budapest-Rákos and Tata, between Püspökladány and Debrecen, and between Budapest-Kelenföld and Budapest-Pusztaszabolcs and Dombóvár to Gyékényes, between Biatorbágy and Tata, between Püspökladány and Debrecen, and between the Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport and Nyugati Railway Station, as well as the modernisation of the lines of Kőbánya-Kispest-Lajosmizse-Kecskemét, Rákospalota-Újpest-Veresegyház-Vác. The government also places great emphasis on improving the conditions for suburban transport, as on these lines tens of thousands of people commute daily between their homes and workplaces, education, health and other institutions. With the removal of speed limits and the new P+R parking lots built in the area of stops, we want to provide a service that we hope will increase the use of railway services. Government plans include not only the railway track, but also the modernisation of passenger vehicles, stations and other elements. The plans include the modernisation of the South Railway Bridge, which has been rebuilt after World War II and is in a worse state, and the construction of the GSM-R rail communications system at a further section of nearly 2500 kilometres. The passenger railway company will buy new suburban motor trains of up to 300 seats, which will increase the quality of service on the busiest lines in Cegléd and Vác. I would ask the Member to accept my reply by assessing these otherwise summarised railway results. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr László Földi whether he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-24-77	Thank you, Secretary of State, for your forward-looking response. It's very important to me that you mentioned the city of Cegléd. Indeed, Cegléden had rail transport already in 1847. At today's age in relation to Budapest-Cegléd...? Cegléd is 70 kilometers away from Budapest, and as in suburban traffic, it is of great importance, as thousands of people travel to the capital every day, and the way people travel to school or work is a key issue for the development of the region. It is also a special pleasure for me that there will be more serious railway development in Pest county, in the central region of Pest county, and this is a key issue for the region. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply and I accept it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. We heard the congressman accepted the Secretary of State's answer. It's 16 hours 17 minutes. This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now we move on to immediate questions. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who leave the Chamber because of their urgent duties, to do so quickly and quietly, so that this does not affect the launch of immediate questions. [[It's a short break. ? Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[It's a loudspeaker error. ? For signals from the MSZP fraction:]] ... now the right 15 hours 19 minutes appear. I thank my fellow Members for their indication that I did not say the time correctly, because, as Congressman Józsa put it, I have returned to the time of summer. So this is the devil of technology, because I can only say what appears on my monitor, because what the president says on the monitor matters. Dear Parliament, So the hour of immediate questioning begins. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "You, Prime Minister, did you have a chance? Do you think it's for kids today? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask whether you will accept the person of the responding person or wait for the Prime Minister with a question.
u2014-11-24-79	I'm sorry, Minister, but I won't accept it. I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[János Lázár: He has good taste!]]
u2014-11-24-80	Thank you very much. So, as we have heard, the congresswoman is waiting for the Prime Minister to answer. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Then, instead of the congresswoman, it will be Mr Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Private pension: do you know what private property means? It's an address. The Prime Minister asked Minister Mihály Varga to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-11-24-81	Yeah.
u2014-11-24-82	Yes, thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor. Here you go. [[15.20]]
u2014-11-24-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. After the 2010 elections, Fidesz virtually einstanded 3 million people's savings of HUF 3000 billion. This money was also spent in 2014, and they are about to close the sovereign debt reduction fund. The 3000 billion have disappeared, and the government debt has increased, let alone decreased. Could people still comment on their property in 2011? So did about 60,000 people. It did so, among other things, because the amount of private pension savings was accurately traceable and even inherited. You led people to believe that nationalised payments would be recorded in a personal account in the state register, guaranteeing that the money wasn't stolen, but spent temporarily on something else. They lied about it, and they still haven't created individual accounts. Now, with some legislative changes in line, they're practically liquidating the rest of the cash registers. The reason is because, under the terms of your law, people's money is not safe. You know what I mean? You write a law and destroy those who obey it. In the meantime, it is not possible to fail to note that the amount of private pensions of EUR 200 billion is the same as the originally planned revenue of the Internet tax withdrawn at the pressure of the people. So you don't think Ildikó Vida and the leadership of the NAV have to be replaced and do something to stop the thousand billion-dollar VAT fraud, but take away the people's savings to fund this corrupt, totally corrupt system of theirs. I ask simple questions, Minister, we expect a clear answer. Is the amount registered in private pension funds private property? If it's private property, how do they take the liberty of simply taking other people's money without asking and approving them? What's your next move, taking people's money from their bank accounts? Do you even understand what private property means? I look forward to your reply, Minister.
u2014-11-24-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-85	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Allow me to thank you for your question. Unfortunately, your questions were based on incorrect information and inaccuracies. Let's start at the starting point. By 1998, you introduced a compulsory private pension fund, obliging people to pay most of their contributions to the compulsory private pension fund instead of the public system. What have you accomplished? They risked paying pensions, and since they did not guarantee the security of the amounts paid to the compulsory private pension fund, a significant part of the money disappeared from there. [[Zoltán Pride: That's not true! ? Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: What is the significant part of it? ? Zoltán Grimlock: He's made a lot of money!]] Well, that's what we met about. Thirteen years have been lost to this national economy. In 2011, this system was abolished. Ninety-seven percent of the 3 million private pension fund members have returned to the state system. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Volunteer...]] Accept that decision, Congressman. What happened after that? There are still 100,000 people left in the mandatory private pension system. At first, they paid a membership fee, on average 10 thousand forints a month, but today the number has decreased to 60,000, and they only pay 500 forints a month. In other words, the vast majority of members do not pay anything in these mandatory private pension funds. What could the government have done? Maybe like in the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, all compulsory private pension funds will be cancelled from 1 January 2016. Instead, we said that the pension fund where they're still paying membership fees should stay that way. If more than 70 percent of the members pay the membership fee for six months, the pension fund can remain. If he doesn't stay, what happens? Either it merges into another private pension fund, or the members are returned to the state system, the pension is granted as if they had stayed in the state system, and even if the pension fund had a real return, the real return will be granted. [[Zoltán Haughty: Will it inherit?]] There's been a lot of misinformation and slippages in your statement. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: What about the money?]] Mr President, I regret that you have not been more prepared for this question. [[Dr. László Varga: Shame!]] Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-86	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Tamás Harangozó, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-87	Dear Minister, There was nothing in the first round that they did in this case, but what they just submitted is practically equivalent to an attic sweep, I can't put it any different. The fact that private property is taken and nationalised without being asked or otherwise declared to its owner cannot be classified differently. [[András Tállai: Read the law first! Read it. Then you'll find out.]] This is because you cannot do anything about corruption, Minister, because it is part of maintaining your system. Therefore, more and more faces are being cast, more and more borders are being crossed day by day. This march, Minister, the people will stop it. Please be so wise, be reasonable, and withdraw this bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-88	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga is responsible for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You're paying experts hundreds of thousands or even millions of forints, I'd ask that you don't read the bill. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Why do they want to protest now? Everyone's stupid?]] Then give it to at least one expert to let him read it and see if he can properly prepare you for an immediate question. Again, there's a lot of slides in your statement. It only applies to compulsory private pension funds; if people don't pay membership fees, and in these, they don't seem to pay. If you take the risk that in 10 to 15 years' time, 60,000 people will be knocking on the door about why you don't get a pension, and I can say that because Congressman Harangozó wanted you to stay in this lossy pension fund, then take responsibility for this! The government doesn't want to do this, the government says [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] that these people will also be entitled to a pension, they must receive the pension that they will receive after the 30-40 years they have worked. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where's the private account?]] So we have tabled this proposal and I ask you to support its adoption. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No way!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we trust the Fidesz's turn again? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister to answer.
u2014-11-24-91	Since I'm curious about Prime Minister's personal turnaround, I'd like to wait for him to answer.
u2014-11-24-92	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Representative of President Novak, Jobbik, wants to ask the foreign and foreign minister an immediate question: "Doesn't he feel like a political windcock after demanding the taxation of luxury swimming pools in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa and in Parliament, and then he made a turn in the government of the rich because of his personal involvement? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Ájgyártó State Secretary for replying to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you whether you accept or wait for the minister.
u2014-11-24-93	Well, Mr. President, you were here an hour ago... and I understand it's an unpleasant subject, no wonder you've been away a week.
u2014-11-24-94	Congressman!
u2014-11-24-95	.......................................................................................................................................... when his 2005 proposal was voted by the Fidesz mamelukes.
u2014-11-24-96	You have the opportunity to indicate yes or no to take it or not to do it!
u2014-11-24-97	I'd like you to take your opinion personally. I'm patient. [[Zsolt Csenger-Zalán: So are we. With you.]]
u2014-11-24-98	Thank you very much. Since the Member did not accept the response, the Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. With all due respect, I'm asking you all to keep the house rules, and I'm gonna keep it. And in particular, I would ask those notaries who yell at me that they especially respect the regulations that apply to their watch. Thank you. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik's representative, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Minister with the answer.
u2014-11-24-99	I am very sorry that Minister left the room so quickly, he was here half a minute ago, but there is nothing I can do, and I accept Mr. Secretary's reply.
u2014-11-24-100	Thank you very much, so you'll accept it. But once again, I'd like to say yes or no.
u2014-11-24-101	Yeah.
u2014-11-24-102	Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In economic policy terms, the last 25 years? Perhaps you'd agree with me? Neoliberalism, neoliberal economic policy, perhaps one of the most painful consequences of which was the forced privatisation, which was very hard on our small country, because in a few years the previous 100 percent state property disappeared in the hands and in the hands of the irresponsible political and economic elite that led this country, only under inaccessible and corruption-prone circumstances, serving foreign interests, transferring these state assets to foreign property, and, of course, playing into the hands of the political and economically interconnected elite in our country. [[15.30]] Every year, we are discussing a budget debate in this House, and every year Parliament decides on the budget, that there is no state inventory, no cadastralist, which would indicate what kind of wealth the state disposals over, what kind of wealth it has. You are also responsible for this failure, since you have already won elections for the third time. We don't know what kind of assets the state owns, what it owns. Compared to this, I was surprised to see XLIII appear here in the current budget among other revenues. In Chapter I, a line of revenue related to , state wealth, is HUF 169 billion, which of course, or at least seems to me, to be interpreted as privatization revenue. This draft budget makes a very narrow provision for this, and it does not reveal anything. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what kind of state property goes under the hammer in the current budget. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is therefore from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[János Lázár: Please insert your card.]] Secretary of State András Tállai, please, you can only answer when your name appears. [[András Tállai: It works now.]] Now, there you go.
u2014-11-24-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say to you that, in this respect, the management of national assets is not within the remit of the Ministry of National Economy, so obviously my response to the sale of assets will also be relatively limited on this issue, since the Ministry has no powers and responsibilities. The Ministry is responsible for the budget and part of it. Moreover, the general debate on the budget is closed, but the debate is in essence in Parliament, in committees, and obviously this issue is also possible, and it has the opportunity to ask this question, in the course of the parliamentary debate on the bill. So it's not an immediate question. But one thing I can tell you is that this revenue will not finance any operational or material expenditure in the budget. This will become part of the revenue of the Investment Fund, and the Investment Fund will be used to finance the development and investment carried out by the State. So here, if this sale is made, it will essentially generate wealth, it will in no way mean a reduction in national assets if this appropriation is fulfilled. After all, if the revenue part is fulfilled, there will also be some kind of development in the expenditure section, some kind of investment. Obviously, the priority within the budget will be decided by the government. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, That's all there was, but no answer, no evaluable answer. Well, who is the author of this bill, I ask. It's the NGM. The Ministry in which you are Secretary of State. And it is not an answer that this bill has already been debated. I know it happened. We will vote on this budget. I think this also raises constitutional questions that you want this Parliament to vote on a budget, that we cannot have a satisfactory answer to some of its items. There is 169 billion HUF privatization revenue set up in this bill, which this law states is derived from the revenue of state-owned real estate assets and movable property, property rights, and it is reassuringly consistent that this improves the budget, so it can be booked as revenue. You still have a minute, Mr. Secretary, and I need you to pull yourself together and give me an evaluable answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. ? Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Come on.]]
u2014-11-24-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I think everyone in Parliament is trying to pull themselves together and answer, Congressman. Now it's Secretary of State's turn for a minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-109	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You don't mind, do you, if I don't want to live up to you in this Parliament, but basically to the voters. And guess what? So far, in my constituency, I've been able to live up to it five times. And allow me to give you an answer that I think you might want, not something you might want. What I can tell you is that the government will, of course, decide on the concrete content of the income, and I can also tell you that any sale of state assets will take place legally and legally, i.e. through valuation, tendering. I can also tell you that it will not be sold with functional tasks, so it will not be privatization, but only direct sale of state property, state property, and possibly property that is currently being operated in an entrepreneurial form. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-110	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Developments? From what? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-111	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, My question is whether the budget was planned to cover the self-help of the European Union proposals that may be called by local authorities. How do you plan to avoid another debt trap, which, in the absence of resources from the municipalities, is necessarily due to the creation of self-esteem for tenders? Lajos Kósa said before the municipal election that the government was preparing to provide funding from the central budget to municipalities to create the self-financing required for EU applications. The LMP believes that it is an important objective that the participation in EU proposals should not once again be indebted to the municipalities as they have done before. However, the budget proposal presented does not contain the necessary resources, either in the chapter on municipalities or in the line of the EU's own resources. In fact, instead of HUF 30 billion in 2014, only 26 billion are included in the draft at this address, which suggests that not only do municipalities not receive additional funding, but there is less money available for this purpose than has been used so far. Although the transfer of government debt by the State is a relief for local authorities, the new rules are also a strict management limit, since no loan can be taken up for operational purposes, with a separate authorisation for investment purposes. In view of this, it is logical for the state to provide self-strengthening, which is likely to obtain the necessary resources under better conditions than that which the municipalities can achieve in the case of borrowing separately from banks. We believe that it is essential for the start-up of the local economy, for the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises, that the available resources can also be called down through local authorities, and that we would therefore consider it particularly important to assume public responsibility in creating the necessary self-power. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-11-24-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we've heard, the interpellation we've heard. The answer to the question will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-24-113	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the European Union's money is being paid at a high pace. I'd like to split the answer to your question. We need to talk about the fact that, by the way, we're going to pay 1900 billion, and this year we're going to make a record payout. Last year there were 1800 billion, which was the most in the last six years, and already this year we paid 1500 billion forints. So the payments are going very well. But the municipalities are not affected by this, in your question, but by future applications. Ninety-six percent of the available Hungarian funds, dedicated to Hungary between 2007 and 13, have already been decided by the government and the EU bureaucracy. It is therefore expected that there will be a minimum call for proposals for local authorities, and therefore there is no reason to use significant self-force in the 2015 budget. After all, there will be some remnants of EU funds to increase the aid intensity of funds for municipalities, and partly the money has been labelled, so the decisions have been made. The complication takes place by the end of next year and the financial accounting. For the 2014-20 cycle, about HUF 1200 billion will be decided at the moment, and the Commission will be consulted in these weeks. [[15.40]] The European Commission is expected to take a final decision in the first quarter of next year and the tender system for municipalities will be terminated. In the case of municipalities, ministers, ministers responsible for the sectors, use a call to which the local government may submit a project proposal that does not need to be developed in depth, and that if it is consistent with the government's social policy and institutional development goals, then it must implement the programme, we strive to achieve it with as little self-power as possible. In my opinion, it is only expected in the second half of 2015 that municipal authorities will be able to apply for or apply for such a call, so we planned [[The president's ringing the bell.]] less budget expenditure next year, as far as self-force is concerned. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-114	Thank you very much, Minister. For a moment, István Ikotity has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-115	My question is that, despite all this, there is obviously a need for self-esteem to do so, as I said earlier, it is very important that the municipalities do not fall into the debt situation that may have occurred earlier. In that case, on what basis does the government intend to distribute this HUF 26 billion, which is allocated as a self-force? Will the quality of the proposals be important either for the needs to be met by the proposals, or will their support be awarded on the basis of some kind of sympathy? It would be very fortunate, and we think that if there were to be some kind of a system of considerations for this, and I would like to ask you whether such a system of criteria can be expected to assist in the distribution of self-power.
u2014-11-24-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a moment, Mr. Secretary, please.
u2014-11-24-117	The Hungarian government has only one goal of closing the 2007-13 development cycle, and this is that Hungary is able to use the cohesion fund and cohesion funds in 100%. I'm seeing a real chance of that right now. In my opinion, there will be no loss of resources in the 2007-13 cycle. So we must primarily support local government proposals with self-strengthening or self-help that will bring about an EU proposal in 2015, because it is in the interest of the whole community, the country, to implement the programme, to have its financial accounts, and the European Commission to accept the implementation of the programme; this is the most important objective. Will we, of course, have a self-force base for the future, and will the selection coincide with the social policy goals of government and society? School development, kindergarten expansion, health investments? to make this decision transparent according to the Commission's expectations, and local authorities will receive self-strength support in proportion to their financial capacity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-118	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Good.]] Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Sándor Bodó:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-119	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Government debt is the safest and one of the highest return investment opportunities, as the state can be a safe financial partner for everyone. Are sovereign debt the safest investment option in Hungary, the total amount of capital when they simply expire, and the interest due? Regardless of threshold? the state guarantee is complete. There is no risk for distributors, as the distributor, the Hungarian State Treasury, is 100% state-owned. The Hungarian Treasury's sovereign-distributive customer services have a wide range of sovereign debt supply. Everyone can find the right investment opportunity for them, depending on how long they want to commit their money at what rate. The so-called treasury bills, discount, half-yearly, interest-bearing treasury bills, are short-term sovereign debt with a maturity of between 3 and 12 months. The duration of Hungarian government bonds is much longer, from 3 to 15 years with fixed and variable interest rates, so it is ideal for those who want to have their money in the right place in the longer term. Another advantage of purchasing sovereign debt is that the Hungarian Treasury does not charge fees for opening and managing the securities register account. After additional services, sovereign debt cases, the Treasury also does not charge a fee or a cash withdrawal fee. In order to ensure that sovereign debt as a form of investment is spread as widely as possible, the Hungarian Treasury continuously expands its sovereign debt distribution network. Special pleasure is that in our narrower country, in the centre of the constituency, Hajduszoboszló a few days ago the Treasury opened an office, a sales point. That is why I am asking Minister how the sale of sovereign debt to the general public is going, what are the experiences so far. Thank you.
u2014-11-24-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, the answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since 2012, the government has taken as a priority the involvement of the population in debt financing as much as possible, increasing the stability of debt management and reducing the vulnerability of the country by using internal funds to manage our debt. This is facilitated by a number of measures, on the one hand, in addition to involving the banking sector in the sale of several types of sovereign debt, the Treasury is constantly expanding its sales sites. The Hungarian State Treasury has opened 14 new retail sales points and another 10 are expected to be opened by the end of the year. On the other hand, in the last two years, 5 new types of public sovereign debt have been introduced in order to serve the population's different investment preferences with a wider range of sovereign debt. Thirdly, it also attracts sovereign debt with higher interest rates than in the retail sovereign debt sector, such as the inflation of baby bonds plus the annual interest rate of 3 per cent, which exceeds market opportunities. The government's ambition is obviously to increase the sovereign debt stock in the hands of the population, which has succeeded, since in recent years there has been a triple of some HUF 2300 billion in government debt in Hungarian households, which represents 10 percent of the total sovereign debt stock; this ratio was only 5 percent before 2011. Overall, encouraging the population to buy sovereign debt has clearly brought good results over the last year, which the government wants to continue. Thank you.
u2014-11-24-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Sándor Bodó. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-123	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Indeed, Hungarian citizens have been able to meet financial institutions as very unpleasant customers and partners in many of those cases in recent years, so it is particularly important to have a reliable partner in this sphere. I think that, given what has been said, the Hungarian State has these parameters, can it meet these requirements, and the aspirations that everyone rightly expects in a financial transaction? Is the availability of reliability, stability, expected returns and access also practical? They are guarantees that will certainly help this case to move forward in a positive way. Thank you very much. I accept your answer.
u2014-11-24-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-125	Thank you very much. It is true that the government had to work very hard to gain the confidence of the population, and that the population should also trust in the state, trust in sovereign debt, so that the Hungarian resident, the Hungarian man, in the securities of the Hungarian State, finances the Hungarian State and the operation of the Hungarian State. If we recall, this was not the case in 2008 and in the following years, because in 2008 the IMF loan had to be taken out because, let alone the Hungarian population, external investors, were not willing to give the Hungarian State one forint, and in fact, the country was in bankruptcy, on the brink of bankruptcy, when the IMF helped. Isn't that the case today, today the demand for sovereign debt is multiple, and what's welcome? And for that, thank you for asking? that the Hungarian population also trusts the Hungarian government bonds, sovereign debt. Thank you.
u2014-11-24-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Lukács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question, "When will 34 corruption cases be made public?" It's an address. Congressman Zoltán Lukács, please. [[15.50]]
u2014-11-24-127	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, Obviously, you have been informed that the government has been involved in various corruption cases in recent weeks, so that the public is increasingly involved in such cases. After five exchanges of letters, the Minister informed me that OLAF, the European Union's anti-fraud office, has, of course, been conducting investigations in Hungary for many years. A great deal of these investigations have been closed, and in quite a number of cases, he has turned to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and provided evidence. By 2011, he handed over ten cases to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, two cases between 2011-12, seven cases to the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2013, and in 2014, according to the Minister's information, he turned 15 cases to the High Prosecutor's Office. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, My question would be whether, in these cases, we know that there are proceedings in these 34 cases, whether the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated proceedings in these cases, whether any investigation has been initiated. Is it possible to know more about these investigations, or to know more about the cases themselves, which OLAF has handed over to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and has turned to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office? Is there any information on whether there is a overlap in the recent corruption cases involving the United States in these cases? That is my question as to whether the High Prosecutor will disclose these matters. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. With all due respect, Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt, I give you the floor for the answer. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-129	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You refer to OLAF's complaints on your question. OLAF is the Union's anti-budgetary fraud office, conducting administrative investigations to protect the Union's financial interests. It examines whether the rules are complied with by the Member States and whether they adequately represent the protection of the Union's financial interests. In doing so, OLAF is, of course, in contact with the various national authorities and provides their reports. He or she shall apply to the prosecution if he/she finds in his/her reports any evidence of a criminal offence or if he/she is also entitled to make a specific complaint. In addition, it shall contact the competent national authority. This may give rise to a number of differences that have now come to light in the press. From 2011 onwards, if we look at cases that are still ongoing, according to our records, OLAF has reported to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in a total of 12 cases and filed a complaint, but all these cases have been examined by the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office. One case has been prosecuted since then, one case has been finalized, two cases have been prosecuted, one case has been dismissed and eight other cases are under investigation. As far as I've looked at these cases, it's all cases or budget fraud, or crimes against an equivalent crime or property under the previous law that happen. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2014-11-24-130	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Zoltán Lukács. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-131	Thank you very much. Then I wrote to the Minister for five weeks in vain, because then he was able to send me the wrong numbers in five letters. Then I guess I'll have to write to the Minister again to clarify that. Dear Attorney General, I have recently asked a written question, like you, or almost in the same case. Obviously, then I expect or hope that I will, of course, be given a more detailed answer to these matters on the written question, because I think that in certain cases the prosecution considers it important to involve the public in all cases and hold a press conference, and in these matters we have not heard that it has been made public. I also came to you with a written question, and also with this genre of Parliament, so that we could talk about it. I ask you, Mr Prosecutor, that in these cases, in these 12 cases, you will be able to give me a specific and precise answer as to which cases these are, and exactly what measures have been taken. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is for the Attorney General. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-133	Honourable Congressman, As I mentioned earlier, these numerical differences may arise from the fact that there are indications of an administrative nature and there are indications of criminal proceedings. Of course, we'll give you all the information you need if it doesn't prejudice the interests of the investigation. The letter has been completed for you, and I signed it today, as far as I know it's been sent to you with a messenger, and that we serve transparency, we have published a press release on all of this. We're still at everyone's disposal, and in these cases, and in others, the D.A.'s office is doing their job according to the law. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Attorney General an immediate question: "How long will we remain a country without consequences? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, The Foundation for Helping the Poor and Needed, known as Szersa, established a school in 2009, which is more of a money launderer, since there was never any meaningful work done there. 425 students were registered and subsequently required a state normative for years, but the number of students visiting the institution ranged from 40 to 50, up to 70 people. The tools needed for vocational training were incomplete, which were carried in by teachers. The administration took place on photocopies, and the vast majority of teachers did not teach what they had. They also received support for Gypsy ethnic education, but they didn't do it, and the same is the case with primary school education in its 1-6th grade. The rent for the building was not paid to the Municipality of Budapest. The lease agreement was signed on 16 June 2009, but this fee was not paid already in October 2009, and according to information from the authority of the Municipality of Budapest, their debt exceeds HUF 100 million. Imre Pesti, head of the Metropolitan Government Office, conducted an investigation and made the findings I mentioned earlier. By the way, the Metropolitan Municipality terminated this lease in 2010, but the school still operates in this building, because they couldn't get rid of them in the four years. I was called to my attention on this whole case by István Facti, who taught at this school, and one of the teachers who also fell victim to this cheating foundation, and István Facti is a member of Fidesz, and has tried several times within his own party to tell even the colleagues of the competent ministry that there is a problem with this school, but they have done nothing. I ask Mr. Attorney General when, following this ongoing violation of the law, someone will finally be put behind bars and what the D.A.'s office will do about this case. Thank you for your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Public Prosecutor's Office is involved in two areas in this case, both in the field of public interest protection and in the criminal area. In the field of public interest protection, I must apologize in advance for the fact that the prosecutor's office no longer exercises judicial supervision, but only conducts legality checks, so that the stated purpose of a foundation is in line with its operation; its management and other areas cannot be investigated by the prosecutor's office. In relation to Sersa, a request was received when Sersa was terminated by the Education Office in the third time, and Sersa turned to the Prosecutor's Office in violation of this winding-up decision. In this case, the D.A. has found that there is no legitimate reason for its action, which can only be reviewed by a court. However, there is, of course, a criminal line in this case, and since 2013, the competent NAV directorate has been prosecuting this case for fiscal fraud. The procedure is set out in the Budapest V. and XIII. The District Attorney's Office is overseeing whether there has been fraud of a kind, that the Foundation will receive normative support for declared students, but in fact non-existent students. [[16.00]] This procedure is in progress, not very old. The D.A.'s office oversees it, and we hope that it will result as soon as possible, and if there is a crime, its perpetrators will be held accountable. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-138	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2014-11-24-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Attorney General, On 15 December 2012, Mr István Facti referred to me earlier turned to the Prosecutor's Office. However, it has done so in several cases, because this foundation is said to have established sites in Zalaszentgrót and Gyomaendrőd, but there are private houses at their address. When this was notified to the municipality, the municipality indicated in both municipalities that this foundation had not carried out any educational activities there. The answer of the Zala County Attorney General was that the case was transferred to the Metropolitan Attorney General because the foundation's seat was there. The Metropolitan Attorney General also wrote to Mr István Facti that it is difficult to decide where the institution's seat is based on the documents contained in the public education information system, so the investigation of the case was handed over to the Government Office of Budapest Capital. What I would like to ask, Mr Attorney General, is that the prosecutor's office is not looking for a way of passing the case, but is taking the lead in monitoring public money and preventing fraud with public funds. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-24-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Attorney General Péter Polt has the floor.
u2014-11-24-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe what I said wasn't completely clear. But I repeat, the D.A. doesn't exercise legal oversight, just legal control over the foundations. In this case, we are dealing with management issues, which has no competence. What the D.A. has jurisdiction is a criminal part of the case. [[Dóra Dúró: That's right!]] This part of the penalty is under way, the prosecution will take care of this case, as is the case with all other cases, and will see to it that, if there are any, those responsible are properly punished. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2014-11-24-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister without a wallet for national policy: . What results have been achieved by participants in the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme [[Lajos Korózs: Good ones!]] this year and what will be expected in the future with regard to the programme? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Potápi Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. The congressman has already indicated to me, during my presentation, that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the fourth meeting of the Hungarian Diaspora Council took place. In November 2011, at the meeting of the first Hungarian Diaspora Council, the participants adopted and announced the following:. The Hungarians living in the diaspora must finally receive due attention in national politics twenty years after the change of regime. In line with this demand, the government has launched the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme. The aim of the program is to improve the Hungarian language-knowledge of diaspora, to encourage activity in Hungarian communities and contacts with Hungary, i.e. to strengthen Hungarian identity. For the second time this year, the young people participating in the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme represented our country in the local Hungarian communities around the world and tried to meet the goals set, i.e. to strengthen the relationship between Hungarians living in the diaspora and the mother country. After the success of the first year, the government provided the opportunity to reach as many Hungarians as possible by raising the framework for the programme and increasing the number of young people involved in the programme, while at the same time making faith in the importance of the matter. After the first two years of success, the programme will continue this year, which is of particular importance for achieving national policy objectives. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what results have been achieved for young people working in the diaspora and how many exits will be expected in the future. What feedback has been received from the Hungarians of Diaspora on this programme? I look forward to the honour of the Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Potápi. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for asking. For the second time this year, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme has been implemented, which is briefly referred to as the KCSP. Its main purpose is to address the Hungarians of the diaspora, to strengthen national identity and to organise and develop the community and cultural life of the diaspora. I am happy to say that in 2014, like last year, we sent 100 scholarships to five continents, but now to 24 countries, as you mentioned, 47 in the previous year, and now 100 in the previous year. At last week's meeting of the Hungarian Diaspora Council on 19 November, the Prime Minister announced that the programme would continue. To this end, the government will again provide a billion forints for the program at its meeting two weeks ago. In addition, we will continue the Mikes and Julian programs, which are also designed to save, inventory, and bring home the values found in the diaspora. At the Diaspora Council, we discussed the experience of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme and listened to the requests and suggestions of the member organisations. I would like to inform the Member that the feedback from the Hungarians of diaspora is clearly positive. The representatives of the organisations that appeared welcomed the existence of the programme and its planned continuation. This is where I note that there were 78 delegates from Vancouver to Sydney, Capeland to Helsinki. In the context of the regional meetings of the meeting, the work of the scholarships was evaluated. I am pleased to say that all organisations have considered it positive. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder follows from Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-147	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I think that in achieving the great goal of national unification, it is extremely important to recognise and also to say what has happened in recent years that the Hungarianness of the diaspora is an equal and equal part of the united Hungarian nation. The government's objective is extremely important, that we must help and support the communities of the Hungarians of diaspora by every means possible, so that they can strengthen their Hungarian national identity as much as possible and preserve it for generations as possible. I think that this goal, this goal of national policy, must be a single national policy objective that goes beyond party policy. We support this additional programme and objectives of the government. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Árpád Potápi, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps allow me to read the opinions of two participants in the programme or applicants. The greatest experience is that the concept of the Hungarian nation has made sense to me. For the first time in my life, I've faced the fact that on the other side of the world, we understand each other with half a word. We have a history together, a family. Or another opinion from another scholarship report:. Teenage Hungarian children speaking with an accent tell about Lake Balaton so that it is good to have been there twice in their lives. Besides the crackling of the campfire, I'm learning csángó folk songs in Fillmore, the cradle of our Boy Scout Leader training from leaders who could be my grandparents. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Once again, I would like to confirm that if we continue the programme in the next year, a hundred young people will return to the Hungarian communities of the world. Thank you very much, Mr President, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: . How much did the state get for the golden egg hen? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. [[On Dr. Wind Bernadett's mark:]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Here you go. [[16.10]]
u2014-11-24-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you're familiar with the tale of the golden-egged hen, which actually has one lesson: this hen must not be sold or slaughtered. Unfortunately, at MVM, however, they do not seem to know this story or the resulting lesson, as there is the possibility that Austria will give us a much cheaper gas than we do from the East, for which we have a long-term contract. There's obviously a price difference that can be very tempting, and there's a lot to start with. I see two basic strategies on how Hungary uses this price difference. One strategy is obviously that the public company directly deals with this gas, so that it retains the profits; this advantage, resulting from the price differential, will be put into the budget and thus in the taxpayers' pocket in the long term. Or there's another strategy where they trust, say, an offshore-end web of webs to trade this gas. Technically, the end of this is that profit disappears in a black hole, taxpayers see nothing of this profit, just as they see nothing of that cheaper gas coming from Austria. For some reason, MVM has chosen this second strategy and to name the child, let us name MET Holding; they have this right to trade this gas. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State, why did the MVM decide to do so? Why did you take the golden goose out of your hand? The other part of my question concerns exactly how much you gave this right to MET Holding? Exactly how much money did the state get for the right to let this go? This is also interesting for me because I looked at the data: in 2012 this company realised 50 billion HUF profit. This means that about that much money is missing from the taxpayer's horizon. The other thing is very interesting, that István Garancsi has it in this network as well as György Nagy, a specialist close to Wallis, appears in this network. I know this is an embarrassing matter for you, because last time, János Lázár ran away from answering the question, but now I would very much like to get a meaningful answer from the government on why this right was given and how much it cost. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It cost us.
u2014-11-24-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy, please.
u2014-11-24-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At first, perhaps about the generalities of where the money flows. Over the last three years, more than HUF 300 billion remained in the pocket of the Hungarian population, including the supply of natural gas, i.e. I believe that the supply of natural gas was not fundamentally loss-making, but served the purpose of reducing the costs. But as for your question, if you'll allow me, I'm replacing the relationship between the golden egg and the hen with less poetic elements. Is the majority of the state-owned MVM group exclusively E.ON Natural Gas Trade? This is the Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer Zrt. Your predecessor? has relations with MET Hungary and MET Energy Trade International only on the basis of the contracts concluded by HES Energy Trade International. MVM Partner Zrt.? The other company? and MET and the above mentioned MET Energy Trade concluded sales and purchasing contracts for gas and gas supply capacity in 2011 and 12 respectively. Since 1 July 2014, the MVM Partner has no contractual relationship with MET or METI. Most state-owned MVM Group MVM Partner Zrt. has more stringent rules on itself than those laid down by law, and the company complies with the applicable legislation. It has acted in a transparent manner in accordance with its internal rules, since it has been selling the capacities involved in the case through auctions and tendering for years. The MVM Partner in all cases [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] has reached the best price available on the market. If you'll excuse me, I'll be back in a minute.
u2014-11-24-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now it's time for the congresswoman to come for a minute, and then after that, Mr. Secretary, for a minute, too.
u2014-11-24-155	You will have to continue, Mr. Secretary, because you have not answered my question. So here's a company called MET, which is 40 percent owned by MOL, but 50 percent registered in the Cayman Islands, and 10 percent owned by Swiss MET ManCo AG in Zug, also known for offshore. We also know that since February 2014, VISD Holding has been standing here, and they have taken over it; and besides György Nagy, who is wallisos, even Miklós Kóbor? The one with the exwallis? He also has serious interests. So what I understand is why it's good for, say, István Garancsi and Wallis to be involved in such a network of companies and make a profit, but why is it good for the Hungarian taxpayers? This is all the more interesting because you claim that the reduction of the rent has an important role to play here. This is a serious factor in raising the price through such companies, intermediaries, so unfortunately you couldn't explain to me that, for example, the HUF 50 billion [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What went missing in 2012, why didn't it go to the taxpayers.
u2014-11-24-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2014-11-24-157	I would like to confirm once again that the MVM Partner has always accepted the most favourable offer on the market, and the company's natural gas business was profitable both in 2012 and in 13, while domestic consumer gas prices have been steadily decreasing, contrary to Western European trends. I know this is not the answer you want from me, but gas prices in Hungary, more than 300 billion remaining with the Hungarian population and the Hungarian economy, I think are the right answer to your question about political overtones. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. When can they see clearly? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[It's a herring Anita nod.]] In the meantime, the Member has already indicated that she accepts the person who is responding. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-24-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We've been asking you a lot of questions about this case for years, but we haven't received a meaningful answer, either from the citizens or from us. For years, the media has been reporting to Kecskeméti Sport Association, KSE Kft. His billing scandal. The nearly 100 percent municipal-owned Kft. a contract for marketing and advertising purposes with three companies whose portfolio does not include this activity. According to the four-party municipal inquiry committee, the three companies received HUF 298 million in public money over two years. In this case, the MSZP Democratic Centre filed a complaint, which led the NAV to investigate fraud, counterfeiting and misappropriation. It's been over three years. Looks like there are cases where those particular mills are slowly grinding. What we know and what the facts are: the deputy mayor responsible for the management of Kecskemét companies was then Szemereyné Pataki Klaudia, who has since made a great career, since during the investigation his relative György Matolcsy became a Member of Parliament on his vacant mandate, thereby gaining immunity, and became mayor of Kecskemét in the municipal elections. The case, which has been pulverizing Kecskemé's public opinion for years, has not yet been clarified. The question is, what will be the outcome of the matter that attracts public opinion and the press? For such matters to be settled, you should return the honor of the NAV to clarify why Vida Ildikó was banned from the United States and who else is on this list. The honor of the NAV can become one of many destructive cases in recent years. I'm sorry for the NAV employees who do their job with honor in everyday life that they've become a plaything for power. Let's get this straight. Where is your Ministry-supervised NAV in the investigation? When can the inhabitants of Kecskemét see clearly, the Hungarian [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Citizens of the NAV case? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-24-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai, please.
u2014-11-24-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have actually interpelled this case on 24 September, this year, about where the case is. He basically told you his immediate question, so if you don't mind, I'll tell you my answer from September 24th. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Stylish!]] It is certainly also known to the Member that criminal proceedings against the KSE are still under way. Under the Law on Criminal Procedure, only those who can prove their legal interest in the conduct or outcome of the proceedings before the prosecution or the courts may be informed of the proceedings. [[16.20]] However, without knowing the specific issues, I must state that the investigating authority's procedures, their exact rules, are strictly regulated by law. Therefore, the National Tax and Customs Bureau's investigative body should conduct investigations only accordingly. As regards the time limit for the investigation, I would like to inform you that the relevant provisions of the Law on Criminal Procedure provide basically for an extension of the time limit. The procedures are still within the legal deadline. In view of the above, as regards your question, I would like to inform you that, in order to investigate the matter as fully as possible, the investigation is ongoing within the framework of the legislation, and that I am unable to disclose it in the light of the interests of the investigation or on the basis of the prohibition of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-162	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2014-11-24-163	Dear Secretary of State, With cynicism and arrogance, people hide something. You know, the facts I've been describing are the same facts I can tell you about the case. On the other hand, the public's confidence in such matters is being shaken in the rule of law. When it comes to looking for cell phones, there's always an apparatus. This is demonstrated by 32 percent participation in the municipal elections in Kecskemét. People lose faith in such matters. Not only in the rule of law, but in whether, if they suffer any loss, they can trust public bodies. That's irresponsible, Mr. Secretary. The only thing they achieve is that their own voters don't trust you anymore; that's what we saw this Sunday. Instead of democracy, lack of interest and desperation came over him. It's irresponsible, and it's all your responsibility.
u2014-11-24-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. András Tállai has the floor for a moment.
u2014-11-24-165	Thank you very much. I would like to use that moment to tell you where to find the concept of your tax secret, in which law, in which passage, and that Parliament is not meant to bring an investigation or procedure by a tax authority to the public. If I did that? I don't know anything about it anyway, can't I? , I would violate the 2003 XCII on the tax system. Law 53 § (1) and (2) which governs the order in which you manage your tax secrets as follows:. Tax secrets are the fact, data, circumstance, decision, order, certificate or other document concerning taxation. Article 16 of the Act implementing the Community Customs Code and the provisions applicable to your tax assets. Paragraph 9 shall apply to procedures relating to the establishment, registration and registration of a VPID number. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We cannot discuss tax secrets in Parliament.
u2014-11-24-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. We'll move on to the questions. Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will the workers in the social sector receive a real wage increase? How long are they gonna be fooled? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-167	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, For the first time in nearly a year, workers in the social sector went out on the street demanding wage increases. In recent years, there have been more or less wage increases in the human sphere, but the social sphere is terribly behind the other professions in the human sector, not to mention that, to my knowledge, when I was State Secretary, it was the last time they received a wage increase, and that was at least six years ago. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, When we talk about the salary of people in the social profession who work in child protection or in the social sector, and let's say, if this is during the break of an international conference, colleagues often ask back whether this is a weekly wage of EUR 250-300 or a monthly wage. I would like to mention that, at the time when you changed the tax system and abolished the tax credit as an opportunity, this has affected colleagues in the social sector very sensitively, because the low-wage colleagues were able to put themselves and their families in a slightly more pleasant position with the tax credit. Over the course of six years, I think it's not an exaggeration to say that their income has lost some 25-30 percent of their value. Did the Minister just say that? I'd like to quote you because this summer, I asked him when there would be a real wage increase? "He said that a career model was offered to social workers and that a number of working groups were set up to do so. But the latest news is about that, Mr. Secretary of State? And this news comes from Mr Lazarus' secretariat? That there will be a wage increase if 15 to 20,000 people in the social sector are dismissed and that they can make a decent wage increase from the wages of people who have been made redundant. I ask: when will there be a real wage increase in the social sector, and to what extent? Thank you.
u2014-11-24-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I am pleased that you, unlike your fellow party, acknowledge that there have been wage increases in several sectors in the past period, so that it is quite noticeable in the area of teachers. However, you remember almost exactly, honourable Member, when you said that the last wage increase under your secretary of state was in the social sphere, because during the secretary of state, Miklós Soltész, the last wage increase was on 1 January this year. This is obviously a wage increase that is only the first step in a longer series, but this year's budget is also included as a sectoral wage supplement of HUF 12 billion, and it is also planned for next year's budget. This makes 10-15 thousand forints more people in the sector. That's far from what they deserve for their work. You also point out in other forums that those who do such work do one of the most challenging work, both humanly and physically, because they are trying to help people in very difficult circumstances. That is why it is important that the government be able to help them both in their working conditions and in their wages. Is that what we're planning for the next period? Like we've told you more than once? that if the social security system itself is reformed in the coming months, which will obviously also appear in the form of legislative proposals in the Parliament's horseshoe, then the sector can start a career programme linked to wage development. But in the same way, one part of the career of teachers is wage development, and the other, obviously, what the head of institutions or the government expects of the people working here is something similar, but it must be accompanied by a noticeable increase in salary. During October, we agreed a precise text with the unions, which we had been waiting for two weeks to sign, and a week to wait for them, but they did not sign the agreed text, and they organized the demonstration instead, even though they had no objections to the text before. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: "Do you wish to express the government's appreciation for the heroes of everyday life? It's an address. Mr Tamás Sneider, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-171	Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Mr President, It is a joyful fact that, compared to the period of previous socialist governance, voluntary work and voluntary support activities are spreading more and more in Hungary. Voluntary work is personality-forming and is primarily suitable for strengthening small communities in the countryside. Many programs work, for example, if I mention the joint action of the Catholic, Reformed and Evangelical Church with the title of 72 hours without compromise. Voluntary organisations, the number of volunteers involved in volunteering activities, are gradually increasing, which shows the basic need for such activities in Hungarian people. In the social field, environmental protection, animal protection, education and unfortunately from time to time in flood protection, we can also see that selfless and helpful hands are needed. I think, however, that a considerable group of fellow countrymen did not feel the joy of volunteering despite the fact that they certainly have the willingness to help. At the same time, others in their small communities do so in the form of tutorings, splitting winter fires, shopping and others, by taking on a disproportionate burden to their potential. The heroes of everyday life are doing their job, helping them where they can, taking time away not only from their free time, but also from their loved ones. Are you planning on at least symbolically expressing the government's appreciation to such, let's say, ordinary heroes? And what plans do you have to involve those who have not been addressed so far, but who undoubtedly have the will to help? I'm waiting for your answer, Mr. Secretary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.30]]
u2014-11-24-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, one of the greatest things is when a person is doing absolutely nothing for others without taking any advantage of it. Therefore, it helps those who are in a difficult situation in some way or who can promote a common cause. As in the 72 hours without compromise, quoted by you, the point of which is that for 72 hours, someone is setting aside selfishness and self-submitting himself to other people's interests, working for others, I had the pleasure of participating in this opening. I was part of one of the operations myself. But when it started, even as the KIM, which is not the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, but the Catholic Youth Movement, I was also a member of the organizer of these voluntary actions, and I saw that people do have a very high demand for this, and many people are looking for the opportunity to express it. Regardless of this, and regardless of my previous activity, the Ministry decided earlier that this voluntary recruitment, voluntary intermediary, coordinating and media-based action would be supported by HUF 5 million, in addition to the fact that the historic churches had made a great sacrifice to launch this and provided their organisational framework. You know that we have introduced 50 hours of community work before graduation to spread the culture of volunteering, precisely so that everyone can have a basic experience during their school. These measures or the announcement of the year of volunteering were the result of the Hungarian EU Presidency, as the number of volunteers over the age of 18 increased by 4 percent between 2011 and 14. As part of the New Széchenyi Plan, we have published special calls for proposals for volunteering, with 102 organisations with HUF 1.7 billion in funding. We founded the Pro Voluntarius Prize in 2013, which will soon be the award ceremony on 1 December, which is close to the International Volunteering Day on 5 December. So not only with advice, information, volunteering points at the county seat, but also with concrete financial support, we helped organisations to spread volunteering in the hundredth order. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, Will there be an inquiry into the funds allocated to nearby civilians in Fidesz? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2014-11-24-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It slowly comes together, and it became clear why the government had to fidesz the decision-making system for civilian money. It became clear why the government is upset about the decision of an independent civil society organisation, for example, on Norwegian civil tender sources. The reason is infinitely simple. From big investment to local civilian funding, they want to put their hands on everything. The winding up of the National Civil Fund and the establishment of the National Cooperation Fund were already about pushing civilians out of decisions on the distribution of civilian money and control of use. If nothing else, the position of President László Csizmadia CSÖF is a clear indication of what the government thinks of the civilian world. So who won more or less money on NEA's applications? The foundation of the pro-government parliamentary vice-president or, for example, an urban foundation in which the State Secretary for Health sits, former Prime Minister's advisor. He was a Fidesz Member of Parliament's Foundation and was won by organisations linked to Fidesz mayors, current Members of Parliament, local government representatives. While organizations not controlled by the government or so close to Fidesz have been declared enemies, they are handing out money to their own without inhibition. On this basis, we believe that some specific questions are rightly wanted by the public. How many applications have been awarded to Fidesz politicians or family members? How much money has been spent in this way on the politicians of the ruling party? Has it been examined whether the organisations of politicians hiding behind civil masks actually carry out meaningful community activities? When does Kehi's investigation start, obviously, for political support? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-24-177	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, You gave me a high score by comparing the Norwegian Fund's support policy with the National Cooperation Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The National Cooperation Fund has supported 5,000 civil society organisations so far, with 12 638 successful and successful applications to support civil society organisations. In contrast, in the management of Ökotárs, the Norwegian fund distributed HUF 800 million to 20 organisations. There is no difference in magnitude between 800 million and 3.5 billion, as there are many, many zero differences between the NEA grant allocated to 5 thousand NGOs and the Norwegian fund allocated to 20 organisations. Out of the 5,000, you've found one of those officials that's connected to Fidesz somewhere. As I said before, I was an official of the Catholic Youth Movement eight years ago, now I'm a secretary of state. He could also attack that he would surely receive support because I was a former official there. I've obviously given up all my positions in this organization in 2010, so that I don't put them in such an awkward position, but you will obviously find people working actively in different organizations who sympathize with Fidesz-KDNP, but at least we're not doing what the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government did to tax donations to civil society organisations at the time. I thought that you would rather talk about the relationship between the LMP and the Norwegian fund, the LMP and the Ecotárs Foundation, or separate from when Márton Gulyás said on 19 June this year that from the Norwegian fund, of course, anti-government or anti-János Lázár protests were financed, admitting that what you are saying to the top of civility, others admit that when they had a sense of honesty at some moment, it was actually a party political activity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Nevertheless, are we happy that civil society organisations? Just give me one word, Mr. President? The total amount of support for 2015 is 2.12 billion more HUF 5.4 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member László Pósán, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When, how do you plan to introduce dual training in higher education? It's an address. Mr László Pósán has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungarian higher education, we encounter relatively often the phenomenon of thorough and profound theoretical preparedness, but at the level of practical knowledge we can also encounter serious shortcomings or, in some cases, we may encounter job advertisements that are already in practice seeking graduates, who, if they leave universities, colleges, are obviously still in a position to obtain this practice. It's a bit of a catch-22. From this point of view, I think that the effort to bring practical training into the system is to be welcomed. With this concept, we've recently become friends with dual training. My question is the following, which may be important in this regard, partly mentioned by our fellow Member, Mr Wolf. The dual training council is planned to be established. I ask where this is going, as it will be entitled to develop a set of conditions under which this dual training will actually come together in higher education. What results do they expect from extending dual training to all areas of higher education? All the more so, because it is good to know that there has already been practical training in a number of fields, for example in medical education, and also in legal training, obviously not to mention the proportion of teachers' education, we can obviously argue about it. And in the same way, will some practical evaluation mechanism be introduced in the field of technical sciences? If so, how and how should companies imagine this? Or should we wait for the decision of this dual council to be made? That is why it is important to know what stage this is in, when it is possible to imagine the actual introduction of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dual training is one of the most effective tools for developing a practice-oriented training structure. We can point out that professional training, which meets the expectations of the labour market, can best be achieved by creating a dual higher education training system that addresses theoretical and practical training with equal importance. Even because dual higher education is a practice-oriented training based on cooperation between higher education institutions and relevant industrial companies. In addition to quality theoretical knowledge, this form of training serves the training of young professionals with practical experience, skills and skills. [[16.40]] Education schedules are higher compared to traditional day training, virtually the same as full-time work relationships. Dual training will ensure that students can make use of their skills as full-fledged workers practically without transition after leaving school. Through dual training, students can learn about the most modern methods, procedures, products and technologies, processes, organizational operations, as well as the degree work and the thesis about real life problems. This training system will help to get a workforce out of higher education that is able to enter the world of work immediately, several months or years of further training and additional financial expenditure without any practical time. The Hungarian dual education training model is based on examples in Germany, dual training in higher education started in Germany in the 1970s and has been contributing to Germany's economic development ever since. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] Eighty-five percent of students who completed dual trainings complete their studies with a contract of employment. In the case of so far Hungarian dual training, this figure is 95 percent, so the dropout is minimal. As a result of the above examples, the EMMI provided for a dual training form to be named in the Higher Education Act in June this year. This was done with parliamentary approval, and the legislation states that a dual form of training can be launched in Hungarian higher education [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and 1 September will be the date of the first officially launched training. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member László Teleki, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: why is public money for sign language interpretation reduced by nearly HUF 100 million next year? It's an address. Congressman László Teleki, please.
u2014-11-24-183	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the review of next year's budget, we can see that large-scale social spending cuts also have a significant impact on sign language interpretation services and elementary visual rehabilitation grants. ? Does government's insensitiveness to society now indirectly affect it? Communicators in sign language, and? See-rehabilitation participants by reducing them by nearly a hundred million forints? territory? support. Was there nearly 480 million HUF support this year? Is it possible to read in a budget, but sadly, that next year you will only want to turn nearly HUF 384 million? Government. Is it inevitable? I wonder why this is necessary. For social spending cuts, it's incomprehensible why not? they are thinking about increasing the amount of money spent on sign language interpreters. It is important for all of us to have equal access to public and other services, for example. If there will be insufficient numbers and timely sign language interpreters, does that mean that those for whom this is available? One form of communication, won't they be able to enforce it? Bake? In everyday life. ? sign language interpretation is specifically an area that should be supported by increasing public resources and resources so that they can provide an increasingly high-quality and comfortable life for all our countrymen who can communicate only in sign language. ? sign language interpretation is a special knowledge that, in my opinion, deserves greater appreciation and recognition? At this point. Therefore, I ask the Secretary of State: why do you wish to take nearly HUF 100 million from sign language interpreters next year? Why are they not more appreciative of this? Special knowledge that is the only communication channel for our countrymen? The world? Thank you for your reply in advance.
u2014-11-24-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government, as demonstrated by its actions in previous years, continues to feel responsible for our fellow countrymen using sign language, and we have done so not only in words but also in actions. We laid down in the Fundamental Law that Hungary protects the Hungarian sign language as a part of Hungarian culture, and in 2011 the ministerial decrees related to the Hungarian sign language and the law on the use of Hungarian sign language were created, which regulates the free sign language interpreter service and the national register of sign language interpreters. The government has continuously ensured the operation of the national network of the Sign Language Interpreting Service, which can be used free of charge by deaf and deaf persons in recent years. On the proposal of two pro-government representatives, Zsolt Nyitrai and Gergely Tapolczai, the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the law, according to which employers pay a supplement to public service officials after Hungarian sign language if language is necessary for the performance of their job; therefore, as after the foreign language, employers have to pay in the public service after the sign language. The government will continue to make every effort to ensure that the national network of sign language translation services used by more and more users continues to operate as efficiently, smoothly and predictablely as possible. The operation of these measures is therefore also ensured in the next year's budget. The announcement and launch of the JelEsély TÁMOP 5.4.6/B priority project, the project owner of which is the Institute of Linguistics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, indicates the government's commitment to winning sign language. This project aims to establish a linguistic basis for the so-called bilingual teaching method. Is this about standardising the sign language and conducting linguistic research and the final form of the budget? Do you know that, Congressman? it will take place during the vote on the amendment proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, TIOP and the Central Hungary operational programme led by GYEMSZI in 2013 won a total of HUF 2.1 billion in tender money for the development of e-Health, i.e. the national health information system, electronic public-credit registers and sectoral portal. Development would form the basis for an electronic health service space which is also suspiciously little to hear about these days, although the government is supposed to be committed to introducing it. e-Health would be a structure of public-credit health records that would make a reporting and messaging system available that would make the exchange of data between health sector institutions more efficient, error-free and redundant, reduce the data stored there and the administrative burden on the professionals. The implementation of the project is one of the consortium members, Nemzeti Infokommunikációs Zrt. According to its website, it started on 1 July 2013 and should end on 30 June 2015. In comparison, according to the data found in the same place, the degree of preparedness of the project currently stands at 7 per cent, and the aid contracts indicate that the physical end date would have been 28 November 2014. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of my calculations, it has been almost 16 months since the start of the project and only 7 months until the rescheduled implementation. Would you like to explain how the GYEMSZI, OEP, National Chief Medical Office, EEKH and the remaining consortium member wish to complete the more than 2 billion project and 93 percent of the remaining project in 7 months? Did the bodies fail to fulfil their data maintenance tasks resulting from the obligation to disclose data? You don't want the e-Health system and the electronic health service space and the execution of this to be subway 4 of health, do you? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-189	Thank you so much? at least the part of the answer that takes two minutes, because it's obviously a longer and more complex question. In 2010, the government inherited an extremely bad situation in the area of eHealth development, as the previous government thought that all the results of an almost 14 billion-dollar development programme would have been that when patients appeared, the lake could be read from an electronic card. The government did not consider the implementation of this flawed concept to be correct and has therefore reviewed all related developments. As a result, the 2010-14 government period corrected the development concept in line with the strategic transformation of health care, put it on track and then launched each development. The main reason for the delay indicated by the Member was the above mentioned, and the implementation of the project required a very tight schedule in this sense. I can assure you that the government is fully committed to implementing the electronic health service space and putting it into service. The Semmelweis Plan also defines the development of standardised IT services at sectoral level, including ensuring the use of reliable core data registers. The key element of the planned IT renewal of the sector is the establishment of a single core management and publication system that allows for the integration of sectoral data wealth into a uniform language, the elimination of heterogeneity in terms of conceptual and value sets, and thus the further use of it at a higher level than at present. Another key objective of the project is to create a single sectoral reporting and message transfer infrastructure. The use of the resulting single platform minimises the risk of the need to maintain and coordinate separate device elements with rapidly fading technology and content due to the frequent changing regulators of health transitions. [[16.50]] TIOP and the development of the Central Hungary operational programme will bring about fundamental changes in the functioning of the health system [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which will be a decisive factor for the next period. And by the time you get there, I'd say you can finish this by the middle of next year. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When can children be born again in Castle Palace? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The former City Hospital in Palota, which took the name of St. Donát a year ago, was operated by a private company in 2005, as the municipality was in difficulty in financing. The city did not ask for money for the right to operate, but the company receiving the operation undertook to pay 60 million HUF out of the hospital's debt. At the transfer-take, it turned out that the institution's debt was close to HUF 100 million, so the municipality had to raise some HUF 30-40 million to liquidate the loan. According to the agreement, the buildings continued to be owned by the municipality, so the renovation of the buildings was borne by the municipality. In the meantime, these properties have been transferred to the state. The half-century-long castle hospital in Palota serves about 40,000 inhabitants of the city and the surrounding six settlements. The new operator has come with great plans, new wings have been built, especially for the construction of a rehabilitation department. A few years later, in 2007, the hospital changed function, since then it only performs chronic, rehabilitation and outpatient care, surgery, internal medicine and the most absent obstetrics. Today, local residents believe that the hospital has become insane, and many say that in Várpalota it is only possible to die, but not to be born. Yet, many are proud to have their beloved city of birth on their home card, and they would like their unborn child to say that he was born in Várpalota. Dear Secretary of State, It is unacceptable that an institution for the recovery and birth of people in the past should function for profit-making purposes, while there would be a need for much more services. It can be seen that the needs of people living in Várpalota and surrounding settlements are not met by the current operation. I therefore respectfully ask what the government is doing to ensure that surgery and internal medicine are resumed at the hospital in Castle Palace. When can the obstetrics board be reborn in Várpalota? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-192	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you probably know before the congressman, on 1 January 2007? during socialist government? a change in the structure of the health care system at that time resulted in the chronic supply profile of the hospital in Várpalota by eliminating active care; internal medicine, obstetrics and gynecology have ceased. The hospital since 2012? So two years ago? It has 166 chronic bed capacity in the fields of nursing, nursing, chronic internal medicine and psychiatric rehabilitation. Outpatient care operates in 237 specialist hours per week in 12 professions, including obstetric and gynecological outpatient care, obstetric and gynecological ultrasound surgery. So we were able to secure these after the socialist closure wave. During the 2012 transformation of the supply system, the review of the obstetric gynecological field had to take into account the opinion of the obstetrics and gynecology and assisted reproduction department of the professional college. After a number of professional discussions, according to the department? treating patient safety as a priority? the establishment of the obstetrics department in Várpalota was not justified. In the case of manual professions, should patient safety considerations be prioritised? Did he say this opinion? In order to provide higher professional knowledge or more cost-intensive interventions in a centralised manner, where institutions are prepared to deal with possible complications. Medical development has made it possible for a number of interventions to be carried out within the framework of one-day surgical care, so that these benefits are readily available to a wide range of the population. In Várpalota, for example, one-day surgical care is also in ophthalmology, surgery, and gynecology. In these professions, there is no need for patients to travel to larger centres to perform simple interventions. As a result of developments from EU funds, it will continue to expand in the hospital in Castle Palota [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the scope of day-to-day benefits, significant infrastructure and technological development, and we hope that further recruitment will be possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-194	That concludes the questions. Now the Parliament will continue its work with a debate. First, a series of requests for inclusion will be submitted. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary to ensure participatory democracy T/1841. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the protests of the past few weeks, tens of thousands of people, there were nearly 100,000 people who expressed their opinions and political opinions on the streets, and one or more protests were not inefficient, because it was enough to think only of the Internet station, where the Prime Minister himself withdrew his proposal. So, these street demonstrations should also draw the attention of pro-government representatives to the fact that people's opinions and the rules of participatory democracy in their present form are certainly not sufficient. Especially since you've been busy with a lot of things over the past four years, but mostly with your own power and financial base being cemented and created. You are a one-party party or, if you like, you have adopted a constitution of a pro-government alliance here in Parliament and have, of course, changed the institution of the referendum in connection with and in the Fundamental Law. Is this regulation more than cynical at present with regard to the referendum from a party or a coalition of parties which, by the way, obtained a two-thirds parliamentary majority in elections itself with the support of 30-35 percent of the electoral candidates, while the people themselves require that there should be at least 50 percent participation in a referendum in the referendum? according to your new rules? To make it even valid. You have thrown billions of forints out of the window for national consultations in recent years, where virtually nothing has happened but that you have conducted correspondence with a few hundred thousand Fidesz sponsors and sympathizers in public money, obviously it had nothing to do with real knowledge of this people's will. If you want to learn the will of the people and channel them into their governance, you can achieve this by extending the various instruments of participatory democracy. One of the most important of these is the referendum, which you probably know very well, because what is even more cynical for you is that in 2008 you launched a referendum for a visit fee of 300 forints. [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the tuition!]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: And the tuition!]] and against the tuition fee which you have since been obliged to introduce in Hungary under a different name. (Dr. András Schiffer: And the tuition!) They did this, they came to power, they had two-thirds power, and once again, their first task was to take away this right; not from the opposition, no mistake, but from the people to whom Prime Minister Viktor Orbán refers all the time and the vast majority of fidesz speakers. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki in the notary seat.]] This is why our proposal is specifically about restoring the opportunities for referendums that are common in the years before 2010 even a little more than their current system. The proposal would bring back the Constitution of the Rule of Law 28/C. § 6 does not require half of the voters to participate in the decisive referendum, but the decisive referendum is effective if more than half of the voters voting validly, but at least one quarter of all voters have given the same answer to the stated question. The Fundamental Law is a new 8/A. It sets out the rules of the referendum for the purposes of expressing its opinion. The re-introduction of the institution of the referendum for the purpose of expressing opinions ensures a direct and decisive expression of opinion for voters. However, according to our proposal for a solution, such a referendum would have the advantage of putting as many people as would otherwise meet the conditions of the decisive referendum in favour of the referendum, so that as many voters would go away and more than half of the citizens would clearly state that they are thinking equally on some issues, then automatically? Even though it started as a referendum for opinion? It must be seen as a decisive referendum, so that Parliament would be bound by these decisions. [[17.00]] We would ask the ruling majority not to be afraid of the people, not to be afraid of the people. If you want to get your opinion, don't hold false consultations, but give people the right to interfere in the formation and decision of their own lives and destiny. People, believe me, will express their opinions and, returning to my introductory thoughts, believe me that although the protest is legitimate, the demonstration is legitimate, it would be much better if this bill created a systematic say in their affairs. 'Cause I'm gonna say it again, if the other way around, people on the street are gonna force it sooner or later. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-24-196	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, the Housekeeper of Parliament, who has indicated in writing his intention to speak. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-197	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary's Fundamental Law binds participatory democracy to a strong social will, thus preventing referendums from being a tool to create ongoing social tensions and only direct decisions on the fate of the whole country can be taken. Participation democracy is an outstanding opportunity to learn about people's will, but in bad weather and with bad intentions, the referendum wipes out the political energies of society. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Jesus Christ!]] It is difficult to understand why the authors, who have the opportunity and duty to consult and use experts, think that the responsibility conferred on them by the will of the people can be passed on to citizens in complex professional and public matters. I can only think that, in addition to the intention to inform, this motion would like to turn the public's influence into a political benefit, while an entire country would be in awe of the current proposal. By making participatory democracy partless, some political forces would not be concerned with the functioning of the government or the criticism of legislation, but only about what should be thought up as the subject of the next referendum. The proposal suggests that, with the possibility of a referendum free of limits, the country leader appointed by the elections would like to continue to replace the will of the political forces which are absent from the possibility of government. This could ultimately jeopardise the country's governance. I can only hope that this is not among the named goals. After the lost elections, I would encourage a little patience for the opposition parties, including the constitutional introduction of action to justify their existence. Because, Honourable Parliament, this is not what the Fundamental Law is for. Therefore, we consider it unnecessary to amend and supplement the part of the referendum as proposed. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-198	Thank you very much, ma'am. Before I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, I thank you for your work, I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Mr. András Schiffer has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Bellozó motion does nothing but bring back the rules that applied to the institution of the referendum in 2008 into Hungarian public law. In the last two minutes, we have heard from Congresswoman Mátrai that in 2008 Fidesz abused constitutional opportunities, Fidesz tried to make governance impossible, as Fidesz could know most of the two-thirds of Fidesz's success in the 2008 referendum. In 2008, too, people expressed their views on complex issues. Nothing else has happened but Mátra Mátra's confession that Fidesz is changing his position according to whether he is in opposition or in government. Shame, shame! [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Of course, we support this proposal, but I must note that beyond the fact that the LMP already indicated three years ago that there is a need for a popular constitution and a participatory constitution in Hungary, participatory democracy is not merely the institution of a referendum. That is why I am obliged to point out that between 2002 and 10, in several steps, the then false left-wing parliamentary majority has hindered the participation of social organisations and people in various official procedures. Such was the 2003 CXXVIII. The law, the so-called highway law, was such as the key investment law put forward by Gordon Bajnai and voted for by Fidesz in 2006. A series of regulations have narrowed down environmental impact assessments, making it impossible for civil society organisations to have a say in fundamental decisions that shape our environment. Such was, for example, the amendment of the Construction Act, which allowed large investments to be authorised with the total exclusion of the population, but I could mention the Ket. The rules of 2008-2009 are also applicable. So what I really want to know is that for these measures, the Socialist Group, the Socialist Party, which, during the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, has narrowed the opportunities for citizens to participate, what is your position on them today. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-200	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2014-11-24-201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I say to Mr Schiffer, first of all, that we fully agree that this is not the only, but one of the most important, public-law tools of participatory democracy. The regulations you have brought up and the provisions that restrict the public are clearly justified and worth talking about. But I think that the government which, for example, adopted the Act on Information Self-determination at the time, or the provisions on glass pockets, can cry back today in this regard before 2010, even with these problems. And as for Mátrai's comment, so I quote, okay? Mátra Mátrai said that the referendum was a means of generating social tensions. Congresswoman! Mrs. Major! I could say that you should know, but all I can say is that I'm sorry, but that was a shameful way of putting it. Even now, Article B of your Fundamental Law literally says: "The source of public power is the people, and the people exercise their power exceptionally directly. I'm sorry, you have the emphasis on the, but you can't say that either. For example, you cannot say that you pass on the decision to the citizens. What are you talking about, my fellow Member? ! The people turn their decision over to us, to indirect Members, to give us the right to make decisions for them, and that they cannot judge the people's right and will in this way here in Parliament. And the fact that, at the wrong time, someone has bad intentions for the referendum questions, I'll say it again, I can only tell you that this was a self-acknowledgment of the Fidesz. I would like to ask you and who will decide, my honourable fellow Member, who will decide what is bad weather and what is bad intentions. Did we see it as, for example? I'm gonna say it again, and I'm gonna close it with this? One or another of the cases on the street affected even your Prime Minister and forced him to change his decision, probably not out of bad intentions and not at a bad time.
u2014-11-24-202	Thank you, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-203	Please support our bill. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-24-204	Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Development Bank's 2011 XX. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. János Lázár, Lajos Szűcs and Pál Völner, Fidesz, independent motion by Members T/1803. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/1803/4. can be accessed on the network. Dear Parliament, I ask who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors. I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-24-205	Mr President, Dear House, XX. of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company The essence of our proposal to amend law is to make banking secrecy that protects the functioning of banks and the interests of customers more transparent in a particular segment as regards parties. So the bank can be dissolved from the regulation, and therefore the transactions with the parties, contracts, or events of the past can become more transparent, and the history of the borrowings and unpaid loans can also be clarified to the public. This is the segment that is affected by the amendment, and in this I call for the support of this House to accept the proposal. Thank you. [[17.10]]
u2014-11-24-206	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, at the end of the debate, you have 9 minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone on the government's side wants to speak in a 10-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-207	Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, The bill before you intends to amend the Hungarian Development Bank Company Act. Under the proposed amendment, in the case of MFB loans for the purchase of property under the conditions of operation of the parties, the customer's identity, the amount of the transaction, the contract for the lending of money, the collateral contract and the documents of the related enforcement proceedings would no longer be considered bank secrets. This provision is proposed to apply to both future and previously concluded credit transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, many of the transactions that we are talking about have been widely regarded as public interest. There has been a more clear social and political need for access to contracts, which cannot be ignored. The Government has committed itself to making the funding and finance of parties more transparent and supports any proposals aimed at making the parties aware of their operation by citizens. We therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that transparency in the case of parties is particularly important, whether or not they have been included in the Parliament. Parties involved in the legislative process are social organisations which have been given priority by the confidence of voters, elected representatives of parliamentary parties may participate in the legislative process thanks to the will of the voters and may decide on very serious matters affecting the country's future. For this reason, the Government believes that the amendment of the MFB Act and the availability of credit agreements for the purchase of party assets, the release of those transactions from bank secrecy, are clearly intended to further strengthen public confidence. Transparency of political organisations is a broad social requirement that all parties authorised to represent voters in Parliament must meet. The bill before you, ladies and gentlemen, has this in mind, since it applies to all parties concerned regardless of political values and voting support, without discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, on behalf of the Government, we support the adoption of the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-24-208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Mengyi Roland, Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, The aim of the bill is to broaden the scope of data that are not bank secrets for the Hungarian Development Bank in order to ensure transparency in public affairs. On the basis of the proposal, the CVI of 2007 by the Hungarian Development Bank on State Property for the purchase of office property intended for the party which has drawn up a national list in the general election of the Members of Parliament and which is also entitled to form a political group in Parliament to ensure the conditions of the party's operation. Law 68. In order to facilitate transparency in public matters, data on loans granted earlier under the conditions laid down in Article 4 of this Regulation shall not be considered bank secrets. Therefore, the provisions concerning the retention of bank secrecy do not apply to these data. The 2007 property law gave parliamentary parties the opportunity to purchase operating real estate with a preferential Hungarian Development Bank loan in addition to a state guarantee. SZDSZ took 415 million HUF from the Development Bank, but after it did not pay, the loan was cancelled in December 2010 and since March 2011 the financial institution has the right to implement the real estate collateral. There has been a proposal to amend the law by highlighting not only data on the financial situation, business activity, management and ownership of the other companies owned by the Hungarian Development Bank, but also from the banking secrets. In my view, it would be unfair and unjustified to extend this law to other economic operators. This proposal is intended to impose a stricter requirement on the parties in the spirit of transparency. Please support the amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, also announced his intention to speak in writing. You have the floor in a nine-minute time frame.
u2014-11-24-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Mengyi, has already answered my points in advance, because we have actually tabled an amendment that would extend this exemption from banking secrecy, because we have heard statements, concepts such as transparency, publicity, public interest, and we have also heard an expression about matters that are causing great public interest. This was also the aim of our amending proposal, as we support any initiative that complies with these principles, the principle of transparency, publicity and public interest, as we have seen what restrictive laws the Fidesz government has in recent years, for example, in relation to the publicity of the operation of the Hungarian Development Bank. But I am thinking here that the various public companies have previously had a restriction of publicity. And what is the matter of great public interest that lies behind our proposal? Tens of billions of Hungarian development bank loans to the Public Machine owned by Lajos Simicska. We do remember that the company was shaken by the order of many European Union developments, and it was necessary for it to be able to meet these orders, and to see wonders, the Hungarian Development Bank, the bank of the state, helped the Public Machine in this way, as it gave loans in tens of billions of HUF. We would also like to know the details of this, and obviously, if you can support our amendment, we can also support your proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches announced in writing. I am now giving the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. Statement will be made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-213	Mr President, Dear House, There are financial institutions in the Hungarian state that manage many, many billions of forints, yet we know little about their operation. The first thing that comes to mind is the Hungarian Development Bank, but I could also mention Eximbank or Export Credit Insurance. Moreover, the current majority of governments are planning to create a so-called bad bank in the custody of the National Bank. Ten and a hundred billion forints flow through these institutions. From time to time, scandalous details come up; generally, companies with good standing at the current government receive help under suspicious circumstances. However, the exact truth is hardly known, since the contracts concluded are classified as business secrets or bank secrets. This is how taxpayers' money goes to dubious businesses or straight to financial adventurers. This system embodies almost everything the LMP is fighting against, the guaranteed benefits of privileged and vassals, political contrasting, the banning of citizens. We must put an end to this practice, which is a popular tool of the governments at hand to put their own favors in place. Now there is a pro-government proposal in front of this House that would make a very small hole in the scenes: perhaps the Fidesz will give you a glimpse of a small slice of the secretly spent tax forints. In the case of the Hungarian Development Bank, loans received by political parties for the purchase of headquarters would be removed from the cover of bank secrets. [[17.20]] What can we say about all this? First of all, it is insane that so far these loans have not been public, just as important details of the operation of the MFB, Eximbank and Mehib. Of course, we support the amendment of the law, because it points in the right direction, no matter how small it is compared to the whole problem. But let's not forget one thing: as long as a hundred billion-dollar credit line is indisputable, there will be no substantial progress here. No one should be surprised if the street man is disappointed, disillusioned and distrustful. This, running away from accounting, making friends and business partners fuss, leaving real decision-making considerations in the dark, makes people angry. This practice, the breeding ground for hush-hushing, must first and foremost be eliminated so that citizens can trust elected leaders, politicians. The amendment of the law in front of this House is a small, microscopic step in the right direction, but let us not think that there is nothing more to be done in this area. LMP's position on this issue is clear so far and beyond. We urge that all contracts of the MFB and the public financial institution deciding on the other public funds be made public after a reasonable deadline has passed. I think that this is a moral duty for public bodies, which would be a minimum of fairness. On the other hand, a private company can be expected to accept this condition if it holds its hand for taxpayers' money. Transparency would not only be good for the prestige of Hungarian politics for many years. I am quite sure that ten and a hundred billion forints could be saved for more useful purposes, such as saving education and health, fighting poverty or environmental protection. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-24-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, the Group of Jobbik, has also applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-215	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the beginning, I will say that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is, of course, happy to support this bill. Allow me to feel this law a little too, as I have been fighting for more than a year to get information about SZDSZ's debts to the light of day. I asked several written questions to the minister supervising the wallet, including Mrs Lászlón Németh, and now to János Lázár, and I was pleased that after one of these interpellation questions, János Lázár decided that I was right in the last year, that I could not have a bank secret loan agreement that provided a loan agreement with a hundred percent of the state-owned bank and the Hungarian taxpayers' money; that is why this bill came before the House. Allow me to say a few more sentences about the history of what you decide to do at the moment, this is the law now, and what was the reason why we had to create this law. On August 31, 2012, was the President of the State Audit Office published by the Federation of Free Democrats? Report on the control of the legality of the 2009-2010 management of the Hungarian Liberal Party. From this report, it has become clear to everyone that the party's serious abuse of public funds has occurred, and it has even come to the conclusion that there is little chance of a return on damage. As Roland Mengyi said, the result of the problem was that the 2007 CVI on state assets. Act No., the amendment of the so-called property law in November 2007 stated that Magyar Development Bank Zrt., for the purchase of office-based property in order to ensure the conditions of the party's operation, the party which established a national list in the general election of Members of Parliament and also obtained the right to form a group of Members of Parliament. lend money at the initiative of the Party. Thus, loans were granted by the Hungarian Development Bank, a credit institution wholly owned by the Hungarian State, and these loans were found to have been charged with the current budget. The loan was therefore granted by a bank that was still in public ownership and allocated resources that were considered to be public funds. Did the Alliance of Free Democrats buy 20 real estates from these loans in a short time? I might add that they bought real estate in two settlements where there was no SZDSZ foundation, and, as I said, were these properties used for the party's operation? and, of course, the use of 20 properties outside the scope was not public until the State Audit Office published its ominous report. Let me quote a little more from this report:. The MFB canceled the loan agreement on 28 December 2010 as the party? So it's SDS? Since 15 July 2009, he has not complied with his obligations as regards capital and interest payments. * Since then more than four years have passed, and we do not have any information about the measures taken by the administrator of the state property after the termination of the contract, following the opening of the implementing law, in order to recover its assets. All we know is that the interest debt after the debt in 2011 was already 58 million 274 thousand forints by the end of 2011. Is it just the foam on the cake that the party is outside the state? Is it also a matter of real estate? Annex VII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. district authorities also owed 63 million 824 thousand forints on 31 December 2010, and their total debt at the end of 2011 was approximately 770 million forints The total debt increased year after year, until the National Council of SZDSZ decided to initiate the dissolution of itself at the prosecutor's office. From now on, this story would have been over if we hadn't now held that this bill had been submitted by you, and hopefully the House would have accepted it. I would add that I also filed a criminal complaint in this case. According to my report, more than three-quarters of the years have now been under investigation for fiscal fraud, attempted withdrawal of debt, and misappropriation of criminal suspicions. The above sets of figures came to our attention from a public, accessible, prepared report by the State Audit Office, but my questions on the same subject were rejected several times by the competent wallet; so, as I said, the secretary of state rejected it, and, moreover, János Lázár rejected the answer to my first written question. The question arises, then, how is this nonsense even possible, that the current portfolio of supervisors of the Hungarian Development Bank to the question which said, "What is the exact amount of the debt to free democrats, i.e. the capital debt and interest debt, at present? They reply that they are bank secrets, but at the same time they recorded the same data in the SAO report according to the state at the end of 2011. Thus, one body is valued as a bank secret, the same sets of figures are not valued as bank secrets at the State Audit Office. Why would it be - in our opinion? bank secrecy as to the actions carried out by the bank under the opened enforcement law in order to return on the loan transferred. So the point of the case is that these figures cannot be a matter of bank or business secrecy, for which I welcome the bill that has just been tabled. So, because of public funds, credit to parties, which is used and how it is used, I do not think that it can form a circle of banking secrets at all, so we fully welcome this bill, and I thank János Lázár very much for submitting this bill, and, of course, for Jobbik Hungary, the Movement will vote for it. I would add that from now on, this is not just about SZDSZ's affairs, because all parties who have taken advantage of this opportunity, or who will come into contact with the Hungarian Development Bank in any way in the future, and will use public funds, will have these contracts made public by these parties, and I feel that this will serve clarity and transparency to the full. Anyone who has nothing to hide does not have to be afraid of this law, and those who do have it will, I suppose, not vote in favour of this law. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will vote for it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I wonder if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask you, on behalf of the authors, if you wish to reply, Mr President. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner.
u2014-11-24-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Briefly, because some questions have been raised. Mr President, Dear House, Erzsébet Schmuck has raised concerns about the operation of the MFB. We can safely say that the rules on the functioning of the Development Bank are stricter than those applicable to other banks. [[17 .30]] So the issue is that it is not transparent and that there are different kinds of business that are not permitted by other banks, it is capable of destroying public confidence, and I think it is deeply damaging to the bank's employees. They have the same criminal liability, financial liability, civil liability, they are subject to the law of credit and financial institutions, they have supervision. As mentioned by Congressman György Szilágyi: the SAO does indeed have such a licence. The bank and the Ministry did not feel entitled to cross bank secrets here. Indeed, we thank you for your support in resolving this problem. Hopefully, from balance sheet data and other public enforcement and other judicial data, all kinds of cases that may or may not be more sensitive in this context will continue to emerge in the future. I would also like to thank you for your support, and I ask that we vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
u2014-11-24-218	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and the votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/804. T/804/4 Report on the detailed discussion of the designated Committee on Budgets, available on the Parliament's IT network. was given to them. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/804/6. and the summary report is T/804/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Committee on Budgets and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-11-24-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government has always stressed its commitment to the recovery of public finances, which is no better demonstrated than the fact that it will only change the budget once this year, but it will not, in principle, jeopardise the fulfilment of the 2.9 percent deficit target according to the EU methodology. The amendment was justified by the fact that during the year the government had taken unexpected measures aimed at rebuilding previously surrendered state positions. We bought shares in the following companies: Főgáz Zrt., Antenna Hungária Zrt., Magyar Gas Tranzit Zrt., AVE Magyarország Zrt. No amendments were tabled to the bill, but the budget committee expressed an intention to amend it, the most important of which is the following. First, Eximbank's allocation of funds; its aim is to provide additional funds to the Eximbank, which has been radically expanding its activities so far, in order to expand its lending activity. Secondly, it clarifies the accounting rules for the non-public waste water disposal aid for local authorities and for the support of children's meals. Thirdly, the aim is to reduce VAT fraud due to road VAT fraud and fictitious transfers abroad by providing HUF 8.5 billion in additional resources for the construction of the road traffic control system. Fourthly, it gives the Minister responsible for public finances a new mandate to make, on behalf of the State, a declaration of ratification of the contract in the case of contracts relating to the State's obligation to pay. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of all this, I would like to ask you to vote tomorrow to support the amendment of the 2014 budget. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tamás László, who spoke before me, said that the government has set itself strategic goals, and that budget resources must, of course, also be allocated to it. However, we see that both the time of the budget amendment and the way in which it is done do not imply the strategic thinking that my fellow Member has mentioned. I am saying this because the amendment to the 2014 budget almost slipped with the 2015 budget. With the last-minute amendment, we will actually increase this year's budget by HUF 152 billion, since on the revenue side there is nothing else to buy utility companies. When we first discussed this proposal for a budget amendment within the walls of this House, I said that, in fact, we will increase the deficit by HUF 152 billion, and it should be pointed out here that it is true that, according to the European Union methodology, wealth will, of course, appear in the books on the other side and in the public finances, together with the Budget Council, that, yes, in the year-end accounts, the real budget deficit may be affected by this recent, a bit hasty, budget change. It is worth reading through and bearing in mind the consequences. The Hungarian state buys public utility companies for 152 billion forints, and we said that this is the expensive way to achieve the strategic goal that the government wants to achieve. The government is trying to make these utility companies not so, not in the usual order they've been used to, not in the way they're farming and not in the way they're serving. Here we should achieve what is the will of the government and of legislation by regulation, not by ownership. At that time, Secretary of State Banai told me that both were needed. I believe that one of them is, of course, necessary. What legislation can play a role in is that it creates regulators in which these utility companies can function properly and operate in accordance with the law. The ownership approach in this case is quite simply expensive. The Hungarian State must provide it where no one else will provide it. That's health care, that's education, that's social territory. Of course, in the next year's budget, we can see that there will be no more, but we are buying these companies now. There will be no more access to health and education, and I believe that the Hungarian State must provide it, not where there are market players. Returning to the methodology for a moment: the sentence of my fellow Member, László, in which he said that he was pleased that the 2014 budget had only been amended once, he probably said that because we always whip the government because the 2013 had to be amended eight times, but still, this is the only three. We discussed it here before Parliament once, we discussed it here in plenary, and then it came back to this committee, where, for example, the HUF 20 billion of Eximbank was added, to which we asked why this was the case, and then came back to the committee once more, after we said it once, the chairman of the committee, as well as I was, that it may not fit for the discussion of the 2015 budget, but it must be very difficult to manage the amendment of the 2014 budget in a methodological way. So we have discussed this proposal three times. What else do we have to say? That's why we don't agree with him? That we see at MVM that there is a kind of profile cleaning going on, we can say that, in a good way, I think that now, of course, we know its background, and I would not burden you here, and of course I would not take up time with it, why this is necessary. There is one thing I do not understand why this is necessary from budgetary resources and why budgetary resources are needed. You are so proud to say that neither the reduction of the rent nor the acquisition of these companies, nor the regulation of these companies, the flow into their farming, has ever been passed on, nor has it been passed on to the Hungarian population in the form of taxes or fees, then why should we now use budgetary resources to take over either the Paks II or the natural gas transfer from the other state company. [[17.40]] The solution to this may also be that the state will, of course, place an order for both companies, and they will close this case in their own way. There are two ways to do that. It is quite simply that MMV pays MVM for what it buys from it, or there will be a capital increase on one side and a capital reduction on the other side. Of course, the answer to that is that at MVM, you do not want to see loss of assets, and MVM cannot afford to lose property there. I think that answer is not an answer. Certain assets, certain business interests, should not be exchanged between two public companies, if the State would like to move these assets from one pocket to another. For example, in these two cases, this is only HUF 15 billion, we did not get the right answer. I think, especially in the light of what has been said earlier, that it has never been passed on to the population, and that there has never been a budgetary impact, then perhaps we could keep this logic, and then we should not have discussed it. There's probably something else behind this. We also have to take into account, of course, that we now see the 2015 budget, where we see that the state is now buying companies. In the next year's budget, there is a HUF 169 billion item, which is the sale of something that is not explained, but it will flow into the budget from the sale of something, and I hope that we do not need to find any connection between the two. Because of the methodology, why we had to negotiate now and why, we had to negotiate this one three times, and there was always another, another, even another, government idea that came before the committee, for this reason, and for what I said earlier, it would be possible to agree that if they wanted to regulate these utility companies, but it would be too expensive, it would have to be regulated. Therefore, as a minority opinion, the committee accepted and we will represent this in the Hungarian Socialist Party faction that we do not support the proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-24-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, whether he wishes to respond or speak on behalf of the government. [[András Tállai: In the end!]] No, the Secretary of State indicated that he would like to state the position of the wallet and the government in the context of the closing. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time frame set out in the item on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll give the floor to the written candidates first. First up is Mr Tamás László, Member of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-223	Dear House, Thank you for the floor. To the Member before me, I would only reply with a few sentences. The socialists sold these utility companies, and the regulations there did make it possible to provide these companies with a maximum profit. On the other hand, I believe that these measures, these steps, these acquisitions of shares in public utility companies were indeed activities for the benefit of the Hungarian population. All the steps we have listed are steps that serve the interests of the Hungarian population. I think the fact that we're providing funds to the Eximbank strengthens the lending practice, the lending activity that is desperately needed. All items that we have listed are thoughts, items that are reasonable and positive amendments to the 2015 budget. I think, since there has not yet been a vote, that everything has been fully carried out in time by the government, and that is what Parliament will do with tomorrow's vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-24-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, Member of the MSZP Group, also announced his intention to speak in writing. You have the floor.
u2014-11-24-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I believe that in the minority opinion I have said, in general, the position which is the opinion of the Socialist Party faction. However, one reaction is certainly worth the previous speech by my fellow Member Tamás László. I think that it would be in the interest of the Hungarian population to spend as little budgetary resources as possible on the fact that one company in the state is doing business with another company in the state. Quite simply, certain business lines are avoided from one company and are transferred to the other state company. Normally, under market conditions, the owner does not reach into his pocket and pay for the resulting loss of income or loss of property from one company, but rather by managing it by one of the companies. These are very large companies, and I think they could handle these expenses. We do not understand why it would be in the interests of the Hungarian population to provide fiscal resources and tax forints to ensure that one company does not lose any assets. After all, the wealth goes to the other state company, so it doesn't go anywhere else. As far as Eximbank is concerned, I did not attack, my fellow Member. We are glad that Hungarian exports can be recovered at all. We're very happy to have the Eximbank as a good character. It is quite simply that when we first discussed this proposal for a amending budget, this was not necessarily included here. Just as the price of natural gas transfers slowly climbed up to 2.5, 3 and 5 billion forints. This proposal fell upon us quite simply at once. We say it's a rush, it's a hasty suggestion. In the end, even the Secretary of State at the committee took the blame for the fact that one of the amendments was actually because they had forgotten to include it earlier. When we decide on such amounts, when we are discussing such proposals, I think that a little more precise preparation could be made. It is not that the government gives us an order, so let us take it to the committee, let it be a Commission amendment, because the house rules give us the opportunity to do so, and then we will bring it to the House quickly. If there was time, if there were reasonable deadlines, this could have been done. I do not think that these strategic objectives were created in the government at the beginning of November. This could have been done earlier, brought in, negotiated calmly, and then we could have done it without further ado to discuss and vote on these goals. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speeches by Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame are now taking place. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2014-11-24-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For months, Parliament has seen the amendment of the 2014 budget, to which the government has recently added another interesting amendment through the Budget Committee. Does this show that it's not just this year's nationalizations? Main gas, Antenna Hungária, AVE - they wish to pass through the budget, but they would spend almost half of the 100 billion forints of the National Defence Fund in the framework of a year-end spending. Under the amending proposal, the cash-flow deficit would increase by HUF 15 billion and the central reserve would decrease by HUF 47 billion. This year, they would spend HUF 20 billion on the state-owned Eximbank, which will otherwise receive another HUF 18 billion capital increase next year. In 2015, you will also receive HUF 23 billion in interest compensation, which will cost taxpayers HUF 61 billion in two years. In addition to Eximbank, 9 billion would be allocated to the Hungarian Post and MÁV Zrt. It also undergoes a minor consolidation. In addition to current subsidies, the state will take over 35 billion forints of State Railways loans this year and 23.4 billion forints next year. But in principle, a profitable state energy mammoth also receives capital injections from Hungarian Electricity Industries. Following this year's 10 billion dividend, a HUF 41 billion increase in MVM capital is expected in December, followed by another 50 billion tax-paying capital increase in the 2015 budget. [[17.50]] It is recalled that an important executive of the government's regime is MVM, so these amounts actually cover the costs of this. Of course, the current amendment does not say anything at this time, but that MVM Paks II was established just two years ago with the involvement of a number of private companies. Nuclear Power Plant Development Ltd. More than 10 billion would be transferred to buy it. We think it would be worth a more thorough investigation to see if this newly formed company is really worth 10 billion forints. The additional items of the amendment proposal are that the purchase of the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. would cost an extra HUF 2 billion compared to the planned one, and the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. would spend HUF 27 billion instead of the planned HUF 20 billion. exercise of ownership rights. They do this almost without a single line of justification. Compared to the previous ones, the support of the Hungarian Initiatives Foundation is more than a sunk cost. Tamás Fellegi has lost half of its members since the beginning of the banning scandal, including George Patakit, former Hungarian governor of the state of New York. This is not much of a result for Fellegi's salary to reach HUF 40 million a year. In addition to the above, nationalisations and unjustified distribution of money, the proposal also covers the allocation of revenues from trade in CO2 allowances between different items. We are talking about a sector that is a sector that is a driving sector for job creation throughout Western Europe and an engine for economic growth. In Hungary, however, the government has been abetting this sector since 2010, which has only been in the news in connection with a major corruption scandal. Last year, LMP pointed out that 100 percent of quota revenues should actually serve to modernise energy instead of patching budget holes, compared with 50 percent and 25 percent, which are generously authorised in the current legislative amendment. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-24-228	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-24-229	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps it would be good to switch to a way of working that, if the government wants to change the budget, it does not hide a country reserve or provision of hundreds or hundreds of billions of dollars in each budget, but, as it is now, by expressing an intention to amend it, it marks the property to be purchased or the planned expenditure and adjusts the budget to this. That would therefore not be such a problem in itself. It can also be seen that the draft, with a deficit increase of HUF 152 billion, was likely to be beaten very urgently and very quickly by the government, so that it would not be the next year or years, and it can also be seen that there are basically eligible targets here. So whether it is the purchase of the Main Gas or, more specifically, the increase in interest, whether it is Antenna Hungaria or Magyar Gas Tranzit Zrt. the strengthening of the State's share can be explained. That's not the problem. The problem is that the substantive justification is missing from these drafts and, above all, from the differences of up to 2 billion in the proposed amendments, but it would be very good to know what they are from, because the government justifies that we should not be in a position like before when a strategic company was to be bought back by the government, and it asked for a huge amount of money to be allocated to it in a bianko way, and it turned out that there was a threefold difference between valuation and real value and the purchase price. So it can be said that here there should be very serious background calculations, very serious background studies. And it is true that if different assets are transferred from one public company to another, then there can be no answer and there can be no explanation that this is necessary because they do not want to see any loss of assets with regard to MVM. The question arises as to how such a profitable undertaking can be explained, as the capital increase can be justified. But it is certain that, in the long term, similar proposals can be supported in a calm way if they are combined with a reprivatisation strategy, so we can see whether, according to a timetable, the government wants to buy back in what, how, why, in what value, in what real value. Indeed, the real reduction would be if a large majority of these strategic companies were either Hungarian state-owned or Hungarian state-controlled. So the socialists' proposal to resolve this whole issue simply by regulation and merely by cutting down or even tightening up the wild drivings of regulation would be possible to enable market operators to provide the right quality, perhaps a decade ago. I do not always wish to refer back to the period of the socialists, when companies that have made a guaranteed profit in proportion to the assets of 8 per cent, in one or two weeks, have thrown away one or more of the entire Hungarian sectors, but I do say that it is not necessarily enough to transform the regulatory environment in terms of guaranteeing the quality of services. With a reprivatisation strategy, you should be able to see what assets, what valuables can be recovered. But I stress that this is only successful on the part of the government if it does so at a realistic price if it does not ask us for more blank cheques in cases where there are multiple differences between valuation, asset estimation and the amount to be charged. So it is clear that the strategy so far does not necessarily work. Can we calmly support such proposals if they take place in a well-thought-out, fair and transparent manner along a clear timetable, since it is in Hungary's interest that its strategic companies do? Like I said? either in Hungarian state control or under state control. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on this agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have a ten-minute window of time at your disposal, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The 2014 Central Budget Act had to be amended on several points, taking into account government decisions taken since the entry into force and the need for clarification in the application of the Act. The amendment tabled by the Government is necessary in particular to provide budgetary coverage for strategic corporate acquisitions. The Parliament's Committee on Budgets presented a draft amendment to the bill amending the 2014 Central Budget Act before Parliament as a legislative committee. The Commission's amendment aims to clarify changes in the distribution of quota revenues and the use of church public education grants at the end of the year. The licensing rules for the public supply of waste, the changes to the local government survey and other positive changes to local government and capital development include the transfer of the effects of government decisions and processes that have been taken in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the amendments to the expenditure for the expansion of state assets are justified by the clarifications that have become known since the date of the submission of the bill and by the Paks II. the need to include a project in public funding. Overall, these items increase the cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem by HUF 14.8 billion. However, I would stress that this increase is due to financial transactions that, according to the EU methodology, do not affect the balance of public finances. In the budget for the financing of road maintenance expenditure HUF 10 billion, Magyar Posta Zrt. In order to advance the reimbursement of its additional burden due to its role as a universal service provider, HUF 9.1 billion and HUF 20 billion may be available for the capital increase of Eximbank as a result of the amendment. In addition, the necessary improvements to the introduction of an electronic road traffic control system based on economic whitening, which underpins the implementation of the 2015 surplus revenue, will be launched this year, with an appropriation of HUF 8.6 billion provided by the amending proposal. [[18.00]] The above items together result in additional expenditure of HUF 47.7 billion, which would affect the deficit on the basis of the EU methodology. However, the amending proposal does not allow for an increase in the budget deficit, as the budgetary compensation for these expenditure is created by reducing the allocation of the National Defence Fund. The dynamic growth of Hungary's economy, currently estimated at 3.2 percent, provides an opportunity for the additional expenditure included in the amending proposal to be covered by a reduction in the allocation of the National Defence Fund. However, it is important to stress that the remaining reduced amount of the Fund can ensure that the target of a deficit of 2.9 per cent according to the EU methodology is met. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support the summarised amendment and to adopt the bill on the basis of the authorisation of the Fiscal Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? L. Simon László: That's how it's gonna be!]]
u2014-11-24-232	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on scientific research, development and innovation and the final amendment proposal follow up. The submission is T/1768. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the designated Economic Committee on the detailed debate T/1768/21. was given to them. T/1768/23. T/1768/24. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Since the committee indicated that the minority rapporteur would be named later, I would first ask whether someone would like to present the minority opinion after the presentation of the Commission's position. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Imre Pesti, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Lords of the President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I hereby inform the Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 20 November 2014 T/1768. Has the bill on scientific research, development and innovation been discussed and discussed by the committee with 22 votes in favour and 10 abstentions? therefore, without voting against - he submitted an amending proposal and a summary report. The summarised amendment included, on the one hand, a ten-point amendment proposal from the Economic Committee, two of which were corrected by the Legislative Committee, and two proposals from the Legislative Committee. The proposed amendment takes into account the fact that a large proportion of universities carry out high-quality, internationally recognised research activities and have a broad industrial and economic relationship system. In order to achieve the objective set out in the bill, their involvement in the development of a strategy for research, development and innovation could be reasonable in their area of expertise. By amending the text, universities can participate in the development of the strategy in their fields of expertise in such a way that ministerial tasks and competences can be implemented in accordance with the relevant legislation. Unlike the text submitted, the amending proposal aims to provide the professional guarantees necessary for the appointment of a Head of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office by requiring a higher level of education, academia, research practice and leadership experience in relation to the person to be appointed president of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that the scientific basis for certain basic research and exploratory experiments is indeed judged by the competent body. It is therefore appropriate for persons with a scientific degree to participate in the decision-making process as members of the college. May I indicate that the Legislative Committee, in addition to any substantial changes? Because of your responsibilities? has also initiated legal and linguistic clarification on the bill. World-class research, targeted development and productive innovation are essential factors for a competitive economy. The institutional system resulting from the adoption of the bill can provide an appropriate basis for taking advantage of these benefits, and I therefore call for the support of the fellow Members. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-24-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr L. Simon László State Secretary if he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, please.
u2014-11-24-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have just heard from our fellow Member Pesti, we have actually discussed the proposal in the Legislative Committee without debate. It took about two minutes to discuss the agenda. The fact that there is no minority opinion in the House that the opposition has not even claimed a minority rapporteur seems to indicate that this bill is widely accepted. In the previous general debate here in plenary, I think we have discussed very constructively the most important elements of the bill. I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us in the final vote, so we ask Parliament to adopt the summation amendment and the single proposal. I would like to inform the House that Jobbik and LMP have maintained a few amendments, but we do not support them. The legislative committee's amendment is supported by the government, and we have guided everything through the single proposal, and we feel that there is no dispute. I would like to make a few comments on the remaining amendments. Five amendments were maintained, two by Jobbik, three by LMP. One of Jobbik's reserved proposals is, from a codification point of view, correctly formulated as part of the legislative committee's amendments. At the plenary session, we accepted these points in the general debate. A more precise version was included in the summary amendment proposal and in the single proposal. All three of the reserved amendments to the LMP are contrary and incomprehensible to the whole spirit of the bill. [[Dr. András Schiffer has hissed into the Chamber.]] Unintelligible, for example...? Congressman Schiffer has come and hissed; it would be good if he read what his fellow Members were to submit. It is incomprehensible that the MTA should be consulted on the proposals after the evaluation of the proposals. If the applications have already been evaluated, then why ask the MTA's opinion afterwards? [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Why don't we just ask him first if we're gonna get an opinion from the Academy of Sciences? In addition, we should be more specific about whose opinion it is. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, how vital it is that the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences gives an opinion on thousands of applications, which have already been discussed by professional evaluators. They are mostly committees of people who are members of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, so they have already evaluated the applications. This is a completely incomprehensible, unnecessary amendment. The other LMP amendment proposes to support advisory activities. Ladies and gentlemen, We aim to avoid these when drafting the law, since the law aims to promote research, development and innovation and not to support the advice described in the studies of questionable value. Mr Schiffer, in his large, loud and beaten speeches, is always opposed to spending resources on consultants and all kinds of unnecessary studies. They are now submitting a proposal for amendment to allow this to happen. [[Dr. András Schiffer's name.]] The third amendment submitted by LMP is also not eligible according to the government's position [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]] as the LMP idea is that the NRDI Office, in agreement with the MTA, will decide on the funding of proposals, for example in the case of an international contract. Please, with whom? Do you have to decide in agreement with the General Assembly or with whom? [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what I'm talking about.]] Moreover, this is virtually inexplicable and legally incomprehensible. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us stick to the adoption of the summary amendment. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of this and to support the single proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[18.10]]
u2014-11-24-236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a six-minute deadline for the closing of the debate if he wishes to conclude at the end of the debate. [[L. Simon László: Sure.]] Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to my fellow Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-24-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think we can safely say what the Secretary of State has already mentioned, namely that this bill was received and surrounded by consensus both in the previous debate and in the Legislative Committee. If we look at the summary report, then I think that anyone who looks at it just a little bit carefully can see that the proposals and suggestions that have been made here during the general debate have been incorporated into the text. Consequently, we can confidently say that this can reflect everyone's position in some way, if you will, a bill containing mutual compromises. Let us not forget that it is here in plenary that the criteria of the President of the Office, who can apply, should be regulated in the law. It was included in the law, and it was raised by Congressman Szilágyi. It was also mentioned here in plenary that it would be worth involving the rectors of all major higher education institutions who may already be involved in such activities in the present situation. The question also raised during the plenary session was whether, in the course of basic research, where the way of starting points should be scientifically judged as to whether there is some reason, we should ask people with a scientific degree to do so, and all of them were incorporated into the bill. I think that, on the basis of all this and taking into account this, the bill can count on as much support as possible. I really hope that's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Independent Congressman Szabó Szabolcs has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, there was an interesting debate here at such a late hour, sometime around midnight, as I recall, and indeed, most of the opposition groups or all opposition groups basically supported this law. I was probably the only one who basically saw a conceptual problem in this thing, primarily because of the meltdown of OTKA. I, to be honest, continue to see it that way, and it is not the independent opposition representative who speaks of me. I worked as a researcher before I became a Member, and basically I also recognized OTKA as a participant in this work with a professional and well-functioning evaluation system. His problem was that there wasn't enough money in it. This bill does not solve this fundamental problem; it simply puts the funding of basic research in a centralised office. What should have been done is that we have also put forward a legislative proposal to move the elements that were included in the OTKA Act into this law, because it is not the most important or exclusive problem with this law that it is not required that a doctorate be held at the college, but how those colleges are set up, who sets up whose proposal and the rest. Unfortunately, this will be a hand-operated institution, which is clearly apparent from this bill. And the debate itself was quite interesting in the committee where I sat as an observer. Mr Pálinkás has listed among the amendments which he supports, which he does not. It was quickly voted in package, there was no debate. It's kind of a weird decision-making procedure, I think. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2014-11-24-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to speak in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Member István Ikotity, LMP Group.
u2014-11-24-241	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The bill on scientific research, development and innovation came to a summation debate. R &amp; D is a priority for the LMP to strengthen innovation. We believe in the knowledge society. We can only reposition ourselves in the world as a result of a well-conceived innovation policy, which is a fundamental condition for a better standard of living. The LMP also said in the general debate that it agrees with the creation of a new framework for so far fragmented regulation and a fragmented institutional environment. The original text was presented to the Parliament as a lightning bolt from the sky at the end of October, without the social debate again. Compared to the original bill, the pre-vote version has essentially not changed. They didn't want to change anything other than a few language adjustments. Once again, what the governing parties or certain lobby groups or oligarchs make up behind the scenes is accepted as one at a time. The parliamentary procedure is only the mandatory operational mechanism for Fidesz-KDNP. No logical argument can stop these processes. The May Other amendments to the Policy would address serious shortcomings in the draft law. We maintain three amendments rejected in the Legislative Committee, because we believe that there should be serious legal guarantees to make decisions or even transparency and non-corruption. The LMP would dissolve the direct and exclusive government policy definition of the new funding distribution system to be established in the bill. If the new Registrar appointed by the Prime Minister decides everything, it seriously raises the suspicion that the sources of innovation will once again be transferred to the economic and corporate circles close to friends and government. Not that this is not possible in the current opaque and tangled source distribution system, but in the future, this could work smoothly with concentrated manual control, and this is not a personal comment, but a comment on the system. For this reason, LMP considers it necessary to involve the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in the operation of the funding system. Call for proposals should not be made without a programme strategy approved by the MTA. The evaluation of proposals should also not be carried out without the involvement of the MTA. In addition, the LMP considers it necessary to include public guarantees in the new law. We call for as much transparency as possible in the area of tendering. It is also important that, in the case of R &amp; D applications, the members of the colleges of specialities are proposed not by the president of the new National Research, Development and Innovation Office, but also taking into account the opinion of the key research and development workshops in the field of research and development. The LMP would also amend the provision that the rules of the aid scheme laid down by law may be derogated from by a specific government decision. The creation of such legislation is completely unnecessary if the rules adopted by Parliament can be overwritten by manual control. This is once again the degradation of the role of legislation, the elimination of some of the control functions provided by Parliament and the public. The LMP's strong opinion is that it is a minimum requirement for decisions to be taken according to the statutory order to ensure the proper use of public funds and to address corruption risks. In addition to the inclusion of legal guarantees on the screening of manual controls, the provision of publicity and the reduction of corruption risk, we also believe that it is important to name the services that promote research and development and innovation in the new law. In spite of the mention of these services in this bill, they remained in debt in detail. We do not want to regulate this in a new government regulation, which is why we would also include in the law the definitions that have already been used. You don't have to throw away everything that worked out before. To sum up: it is essential to have a clear law, and this may be supported by other politics, but it does not do so in the absence of the above guarantees. [[18.20]] We will not give our names to a law that will allow individual decisions to be made in another area, to exclude the public and to maintain corruption risks. That is why we are proposing once again to consider and adopt our amending proposals. Thank you. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-11-24-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Pósán has applied for a speech. I would like to inform you that a two-minute speech is not possible, but in a normal time frame, you have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to note that, on the one hand, Congressman Ikotity probably fell asleep on what Mr Secretary of State was kind enough to say, namely that the request for the agreement of the MTA is quite simply an incomprehensible suggestion, because the MTA is a public body. You're supposed to name the president, the president, the general assembly, the chief porter, I don't know what. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No, it's not incomprehensible.]] So that's why it's an incomprehensible thing. I would also like to note that if you had read the bill carefully, you know that the way decisions are regulated, so talking about manual control simply does not correspond to reality. Szabolcs Szabó raised the question of OTKA, and he said, if I understand correctly, that the main problem before was the lack of money. What I see is that the creation of a larger framework now makes it possible to increase the amount of money that can be spent on OTKA, and this has also been said in the general debate. So I think that your idea of the type or, if you like, your fear, will come to a solution here much more than if you look at the previous states. So I think that the law will continue to be eligible for full rest and breast width. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-24-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. We have also said in the general debate that we are in favour of the bill on scientific research, development and innovation, and we are pleased that they are trying to sort this area out and that it may develop. And, as Mr Secretary of State has said, I would also like to talk about the fact that we have maintained two of our amendments. Did one of them say that the proposal for a provision on the use of the resource that the government has the right to grant public funding without applying for an individual decision to finance the project that it would like? In addition, this option is proposed by the Commission in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the proposal. Does paragraph 1 (b) state as a principle? He's worried about us. And we have also said that the proposal on the eligibility of the government is also controversial, since Article 9 states that: According to Section 5 of the Act, only legislation may provide for a task for the Office. According to the bill, the Office's tasks include the implementation of the RDI strategy and the management of the fund providing resources, but the Government is entitled not to finance a project from the Fund by means of legislation, individual decision, without tendering. So the Bureau will also have to carry out a task that the government will be required to carry out in a resolution. And here we have drawn attention to the fact that a government decision is not a law. Without resolving the contradiction, the practical implementation of the proposal may put the person empowered to take a decision, the President of the Office at all times, in an unworthy position, and we have said that we will submit an amendment to that effect. We have submitted it, where nothing else has happened, only that we have taken the government decision, so the government might be able to regulate it in a government decree, give certain instructions in a government decree. We continue to maintain that this is not good. So I am asking you to accept this amending proposal, because once again, the Government decision is not a law, and if it is required to operate in accordance with the law, there may be coherence problems here. The other, also mentioned by the Secretary of State, thank you for recognising that we have indeed tabled an amendment, which was rejected by the Committee on Economic Affairs. So under my name, you have rejected the amendment of the Jobbik for Hungary Movement. And then I was surprised to see that the Economic Committee had tabled as an economic committee amendment, almost word for word the same thing that I had submitted. I am pleased with that, because I believe that what I have drawn your attention to has been accepted, and that my amendment has been included in the law as an amendment by the Committee on Economic Affairs. [[L. Simon László:]] Mr. Secretary. In your opinion, if this is elegant, that you do not accept an amendment because it was tabled by an opposition party, namely that it should not be, it will not be included in the documents later, that Jobbik Hungary Movement has submitted an amendment which you have found appropriate and accepted, so you will submit the same amendment almost word for word? I don't know why you had to take out the research facility, how important was that definition, that it had to be removed? I don't think it's elegant. You can say that this is elegant, in my opinion, to try to put opposition parties in the background even at this level, in order not to accidentally accept an amending proposal, I do not think it is elegant, but it may be appropriate in your moral situation, or it is absolutely appropriate to your moral expectations, I understand. Let's never bring you more joy. Thank you very much for agreeing to our amendment. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-246	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-24-247	Thank you, Mr. President. Is that what I would like to say to Congressman Szilágyi? [[There's a cell phone on the phone.]] I'm sorry, did I forget to turn the phone off? That there was not a word-for-word repetition, and that there was no malice behind it, but simply the definition of the research site in the law, and not the research institution. So it was a technical amendment or, if you like, a codification logic, and technically, only one committee could do that. So it doesn't want to be some kind of malice against you and not some kind of attitude towards opposition, but it could be done technically. [[Interview from Jobbik: Related changes?]] The research site was defined in the law, but the research institution was not.
u2014-11-24-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches will follow. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, indeed, in the general debate there has been a consensus on the bill, so we can support the summarised amendment proposal and the bill itself tomorrow, as I have said that this initiative is in the right direction and it is glad that these steps are taking in the field of research and development. But I said it there for my part, and it has also been said here by my fellow Member Pósán, that it would certainly be good to include criteria in the proposal in relation to the head of the NRDI office. After all, this has happened here with modifiers. My colleague, György Szilágyi, justified his own amendments, as to why we decided to maintain two of these, and I also appreciate it, my fellow members of the Government, that it was primarily about the fact that the Economic Committee had, after all, tabled a proposal almost identical to the proposal of György Szilágyi, that you made a pride issue of this in this case, and did not want to include a opposition motion in the proposal. I do not wish to repeat my critical comments and reservations in the general debate for a longer time. I would point out once again that, if we look back on the past years, we have reservations about whether, after all, the National Research, Development and Innovation Office will actually be able to meet the objective that has been set and formulated in the proposal. And what I can very strongly promise on behalf of Jobbik is that we will follow the proposals of the NRDI Fund in the most thorough way compared to our options, and we will certainly ask the government whether we can really move in a direction where we can substantially increase the GDP rate of research and development over the coming years, and in particular whether we can improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is indeed a rather serious difference here that is seen between the innovation activity of Hungarian SMEs and the overall European average, right, in the case of 13 per cent of our country and around 30 per cent at EU level. [[18.30]] And now, in the next seven-year period, between 14-20, there will be a significant amount for research, development and innovation, two and a half times as much as in the 2007-2013 period. We're talking about 700 billion forints. I ask the Government, Mr Secretary of State, that within the 60 per cent commitment that has been made, which concerns the intention to devote such a share of resources to economic development, the area of research and development should be given priority, including first and foremost, to stimulate the innovation activity of SMEs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-250	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-24-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just because we won't be able to speak after Mr. Secretary. It's possible, of course, for you... Well, we can't. Or can we, Mr. Secretary? 'Cause if you say the closing word, then I guess we can't. That's because it looks like a bit of a chicken suit, and maybe it does. You may say that, from a codification point of view, the fact that it is a research institution cannot be interpreted, but, gentlemen, in this bill, there has been no definition of the president of the NRDI until now. So it could have been anyone. Anyone could have filled this position. But until this moment, it wasn't a problem for you to submit the bill like this. Now it is a problem, and they already have concerns about how the definition of a research institution should be interpreted. I think it can be interpreted correctly and normally, and I feel that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has acted in a perfectly correct and normal manner with regard to this amendment. If you feel that, or Mr Secretary of State, you have acted fairly on this amendment, then your soul is on it. From now on, I can only congratulate you. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if there is any further intention to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign-ups on the agenda. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. L. Simon László, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. Secretary of State, you have the floor in a six-minute time frame.
u2014-11-24-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I can honestly say that I spoke on behalf of the Government at the beginning of the debate in the hope that we might spare ourselves from my fellow Members defending their defenseless amendments. But as if nothing had happened, my fellow Member Ikotity also read the pre-written text, and did not even reflect on the thoughts I have said. Let's go first in the speeches. In fact, my fellow Member, Szabolcs Szabó, reiterated what he said in the general debate. I think we've been through all this in detail, so I don't want to analyze these again. However, I must also be very firm, in agreement with my colleague Pósán, to reject the fact that the charge of manual control here is completely unfounded. I will say this to my fellow Member, Mr Szabó, at a parliamentary committee meeting, for the sake of understanding of Parliament's rules, to understand the genre, if President Pálinkás, at a parliamentary committee, tells us which amendments he supports and which he does not, and my fellow Members do not, I think that this is not the problem of President Pálinkás, but it is evident that he was convincing and did not generate a particular debate. The congressmen, if they wanted to, could have argued. I do not understand why this should be brought up in the detailed debate. How strange and incomprehensible is that supposed to be? Can I tell my colleague Ikotity that his comment was very nice? I'll put the nice one in a quote on the record. At the same time, I must say to my fellow Member Ikotity that it was truly an honor to come to me earlier and say that he apologizes, that he cannot remain here listening to the closing, where I am responding to his speech. You see, my fellow socialists, this is elegant behavior. It's not what you do, what you say in the debate, you say yours, then you leave the room, you don't even want to know what we're going to say, and what the government has to say about the issues you've raised. So I thank my fellow Member Ikotity for his courtesy. At the same time, I must reject very firmly once again the fact that there is no longer an issue where the LMP does not oligarchate. I don't even know who you saw an oligarch in. Meanwhile, I looked back at President Pálinkás, while my fellow Member Ikotity spoke that perhaps he did not see another oligarch in President Pálinkás. I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that President Pálinkás was not an oligarch, but earlier president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, an academic, internationally recognised authority, and indeed thanks to such people to the codification of this bill and to the definition of the professional framework. Once again, the LMP is looking in the wrong place, it sees the horror of direct and exclusive political influence again in such a decision-making process, which is very well thought out. I don't really know what to do with that. There will be resources from my fellow Member Ikotity's mouth for friends, people close to the government. Well, please, if the color of Hungarian scientific life and research and development is close to government and dude, then we are very good politically. I'm afraid it's not just buddies and government close scientists who'll get resources. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing to say to Congressman Szilágyi, he's fighting his own demons. I also said in the introduction that we accepted its amendment. My colleague, my fellow Member, Pósan, explained why he had to be transformed. I understand Congressman has a lot of football fan experience, and you don't have to yell at a stupid judge when the judge scores his own team. So I can only add this to your seedy speech. The government is used to group funds in decisions, so it's perfectly okay for the government to decide by government decision who it grants support to or doesn't grant support to. I have already said in the general debate about the need to provide, where appropriate, a source of research and development with a specific decision. I am sorry that my fellow Member did not understand that there are development tasks of the magnitude and immediate nature where the government's individual decision is needed. At the same time, I would like to thank my colleague Tibor Bana once again for his very constructive contribution, and I would also like to thank my colleague very much for bringing up R &amp; D and, in particular, the R &amp; D needs of the SME sector in EU funds. I can promise my fellow Member that, of course, as he has planned, the Government will devote as much resources as possible to economic recovery in the allocation of EU funds, and I can also promise my fellow Member that support for research and development will have a strong role in this, especially in promoting Hungarian innovation. So I thank my fellow Member Tibor Bana for his constructive and forward-looking contributions, as I thank him here in the general debate. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, what I said at the beginning of the debate is that we can now live to conclude a valuable debate. I would ask my fellow Members to support tomorrow both the summary amendment proposal and the single proposal with their vote. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-24-254	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply, the votes will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal for a European Territorial Association and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/1708. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The designated Committee on European Affairs report on the detailed discussion T/1708/2. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1708/4. T/1708/5. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr Mengyi Roland, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The European Parliament and the Council have established a legal institution for European territorial associations with a view to enabling effective cross-border cooperation between regions and local authorities in two or more Member States and thereby strengthening economic and social cohesion in the areas concerned. The main advantage of this association is that it has legal personality and full legal capacity on both sides of the border and pursues the objectives and tasks defined by its members. Well, the regulation was revised in 2013, in which it introduced significant changes and facilitations in several parts of the regulation. [[18.40]] The purpose of the review was to simplify and make the Regulation more transparent. Well, this was also taken into account by the T/1708 on European Territorial Association. Legislative proposal No. 13, which was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 20 November 2014. In view of the absence of a proposal for an amendment to the bill and the intention to amend it has not been expressed by the Committee on European Affairs, a legislative, linguistic and, in part, an amendment of fifteen points has been made. The intention to amend the Legislative Committee was supported by the Committee with 22 yes, 5 no and 7 abstentions. The Committee supported the summarised amendment proposal and report without 22 yes, 12 abstentions and no vote. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-256	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been notified three times in this debate as a speaker, which is why I would like to ask the President that, after I have already expressed the opinion of the MSZP faction on the committee and on the Committee on European Affairs in the general debate, I would like to summarise the position of the Socialist Group at this final debate, so please do not call on me in the following seven minutes. In these debates, which I have listed, I have said that the Socialist Party is very much in favour of European territorial associations, the functioning of them, the creation of them, as these associations play a prominent role within the European Union's development resources. These are cross-border cooperations that could provide real opportunities for a region to break out, and those international cooperations, those local organisational cooperations, have and may have a key role to play in the development of a region. I have always highlighted the South Transdanubian region with the centre of Pécs, where very important forms of close cooperation have developed with Croatia and Slovenia. This bill, which we are discussing and whose final debate we are talking about, is actually a transposition of a new European legislation, but what we have contested about the legislation, is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will also be responsible for the approval, registration and legal supervision of these associations. Sharing these tasks so far? the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the registration of the court and the judicial oversight of the prosecution? It's all going to the Foreign Affairs and Trade Department together. What has been included in the amendment proposed by my fellow Member of the Legislative Committee: the State Audit Office has so far carried out management audits of these associations, which will now be carried out by Kehi on the basis of the amendment tabled. We could not support this either, because it again indicates that the government will subdue these associations, so in fact, all the official measures, supervision or any control procedures related to these associations will now fall within the competence of the government. At the Legislative Committee, we asked why, and we received a shocking reply: the State Audit Office indicated that it did not wish to perform this task. This is shocking from the point of view that since when has a state organization, a state institution, signalled anything to the Legislative Committee? was this an amendment by the Legislative Committee? That you do not wish to perform any tasks entrusted to you. So this was in itself a strange thing during the debate, which was voted by the majority of the governors, and we abstained from voting on this proposal. However, I would like to thank you for the amendment on the role of the court until its entry into force. This is indicated by the fact that it is technically incomprehensible that a law does not even enter into force, it already gives a task to any institution, in this case to the court. This was finally corrected by the Legislative Committee's amendment, so on the date of its entry into force, the registration data should be provided to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, which has so far been found in the court. Overall, stressing once again that the operation of European territorial associations is largely supported by the Socialist Group, but as it is apparent that the supervisory and control powers in this area will be fully under government supervision, we will therefore abstain from voting. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-258	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Accepting the Member's request, we reject his pre-ordered speech in writing. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members how? [[For signal:]] Yes, there is no other written statement. I will ask the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, if he wishes to speak in the debate. [[On the sign of Hungarian Levente:]] Now it's up to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-24-259	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor and, above all, thank you very much for the supporting position of the relevant committees and for the constructive amendments that have been tabled because of technical and interpretation difficulties, of course, we can fully accept them. With regard to objections to content, honourable Member, we are convinced that, contrary to previous regulations, a simpler, more efficient, faster system of administration will be created. Indeed, the structure is slimming down, but we see the benefits of this, if it does not take months for such a company to register itself, but even a few days, in a few weeks, approval can take place. I think these steps were necessary for European territorial associations to gain their true function and the representation of millions living along the border? About economic development, building social relations? they are able to provide it effectively on a cross-border basis. Thank you once again for the constructive views, thank you for the support of the committees and for the adoption of the bill in its present form. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-24-260	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his speech and inform him that you have nine minutes before closing if you wish to make use of it. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Firtl Mátyás, rapporteur of the Committee on Selected European Affairs. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Committee on European Affairs held a detailed debate on the draft European Territorial Association Act as a designated committee at its meeting on 11 November 2014. No amendments were tabled to the bill, so the findings of the Commission's report adopted in the detailed debate were set out in the House Rules of Procedure of the Decision 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article refers to compliance with the requirements set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. However, it is worth recalling some of the main elements of the bill that came up in last week's Commission debate. It should be pointed out that the bill is set at 1302/2013. In order to comply with the EU regulation, it is primarily the obligation of our membership of the European Union to establish the law. Based on the practice of recent years, the bill aims to make the functioning of European territorial associations simpler and more efficient. The promotion of cross-border development and the elimination of the partitioning role of borders are strategic objectives for our country. These will be implemented by investments in transport development, education and tourism coordinated by European territorial associations. Associations not only promote the development of the regions concerned, but also require closer cooperation between regions in planning and carrying out projects. [[18.50]] Finally, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Committee on European Affairs has closed the detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 11 November. And like the previous minority opinion, my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth has already said, so that is the majority opinion. Thank you for your attention. I ask for further support from the bill. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-24-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Bertalan Tóth indicated that he had already presented his summary position. Thus, there will now be speeches by Members if they wish to make use of this opportunity. I'm asking if anyone wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to the speeches made by the Commission. [[Hungarian Levente says no.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that the Government's position has already been made known. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The final votes will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our adopted agenda today, there will be no T/1709 on the amendment of the laws relating to the establishment of a central register and to certain administrative matters. for the debate and final vote on the Commission's reports submitted for the preliminary amendment. We are now continuing our work with general debates. Dear Parliament, The entry and residence of third-country nationals in 2007 will be followed by Annex II on entry and residence of third-country nationals. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Antal Rogán, Bence Tuzson, Péter Csizi, Fidesz, Members' Independent Motion T/1168. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal has been conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Tuzson Bence, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. My fellow Members, while reading, the chairman was not informed that Mr Antal Rogán was representing the rapporteur. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2014-11-24-263	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to react very briefly, because we are not talking about substantive changes here. We are talking about technical changes, because the settlement bond scheme that Hungary has launched fits into the programmes that are otherwise managed by many European countries. Perhaps the most well-known of these is the Bulgarian programme, which has perhaps attracted most European immigrants so far, but I could safely say the Austrian or the English programme. They are smaller, although they still attract more people than the Hungarian programme, but they are significantly more expensive. In addition, the Cyprus and Malta programmes, which also work and work, may still be mentioned. Of these programs, Hungary has one of the most favourable conditions, but at the same time one of the strictest in the sense of the word is that it does not grant citizenship, but only provides a right of establishment. In addition, it is most strictly adapted to the Hungarian legal environment, since first you can apply for a residence permit, and after a six-month waiting period, when you have to meet the conditions for establishing a permanent address in Hungary, for example, then you can apply for a residence permit together with the appropriate representation of a lawyer and obtain a valid residence. This, of course, provides travel opportunities in the Schengen area, but does not provide Hungarian citizenship; the same rules apply in this respect as any person who holds a residence permit. So we also have to wait for the right number of years, which, according to the Hungarian legislative environment, is an eight-year permanent stay. The bond itself is for a period of five years, as is the establishment programme, so anyone can apply for citizenship in Hungary after having completed up to two settlement cycles. We thought that some technical details of the law should be modified, because there have been nearly two thousand applicants so far with current conditions. These are mainly Chinese citizens, a small number of otherwise Middle Eastern citizens and perhaps the lowest number of Russian citizens. These are the three target areas from which most of the applicants arrived. In any case, the first circles of settlement are about to begin. As far as I know, nearly a hundred people have established permanent addresses in Hungary, which means that they have either rented real estate or bought real estate accordingly. This is an additional additional investment compared to the obligation to purchase sovereign bonds of the programme. Did we think so? in line with the government debt manager? that it is worth raising the amount of the bond to be issued, as the EUR 250 000 bond was a starting, introductory price in practice. We would increase it to EUR 300,000, with virtually similar conditions. This means that it provides a yield of 150 basis points lower than the current Hungarian government bond yield. This means, by the way, that the return on Hungarian government bonds will be adjusted downhill. And I would add that in 2015, if the budget was carefully looked at, the Hungarian State would not plan foreign issuance, but only the settlement bond will be the only government bond that will be issued in 2015 as a Hungarian government bond on a foreign exchange basis, and will operate on all other forint bases. I think that this is the right thing to do, and on top of that, it will bring down the returns that will have to be paid for Hungarian government bonds. I note in silence that today these are lower yield levels than, let us say, the IMF funding that has been so much praised by the socialists. So I think that for the Hungarian State, this programme will certainly bring additional benefits, and it will also enable it to attract capital to Hungary. All that needs to be done is to look for those who made use of this opportunity, to offer them investment opportunities in Hungary, and to make the continuation of the programme worthwhile. As this is practically the only substantive change in the whole programme, I think that this may not be worth too long. I am aware that I will receive practically the same arguments, accusations and charges from my fellow Members, which were also when we introduced this programme about two years ago, but I would like to see that we are now practically over the first serious year of the programme, but there was a half year and now a full year in 2014. We were talking about selling 4,000 government bonds, and with respect, we're almost 2,000. This therefore means that the programme will be able to fulfill the hopes that we have attached to it more or less, probably by the end of next year or by the middle of 2016. Therefore, I think that this programme should be continued. The amendments that we have initiated are worth accepting by the Parliament. If my fellow Members have further amendments, they are welcome and will be considered accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-264	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to present the Government's position. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why?]]
u2014-11-24-266	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-24-267	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As the author said, the residence permit for the national economy was introduced with effect from 28 December 2012 and then the establishment permit issued for that purpose. The experience of the subsequent period calls for the changes set out in the amending proposal. Accordingly, the cases of withdrawal of approval are clarified and the proposal provides for the obligation to notify the Alien Police Authority to the Parliament's Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. In the case of nationals from these third countries who have been resident and purchase government bonds for at least six months immediately prior to the application for establishment, there is no statutory bond registration period. In order to address this deficiency, it is appropriate to supplement it. [[19.00]] The investor settlement programme is by far the most competitive of the programmes of the Member States of the European Union, so it is completely understandable that it can be increased from EUR 250 000 to EUR 300 000. The residence permit may be revoked by the foreign police authority if the third-country national has left the territory of Hungary for a period of more than 6 months, unless he has not been specifically authorised or withdrawn even if he has failed to comply with the 45-day period required to register the sovereign debt, since the purpose of the establishment is not fulfilled, the national economy's objective. Since the introduction of the legal institution of investor establishment, interest has been constantly increasing, and since the Hungarian programme is the cheapest among similar programmes in the Member States of the Union, the amendment is justified. The domestic programme remains one of the most competitive in Europe at comparative prices. Since the launch of the programme last year, a total of 2,200 settlement securities have been sold in China, of which 1,800 in 2014. The Hungarian programme can also be so successful because the Western European programmes are typically located around EUR 500 thousand. Distributors are in favour of increasing the required amount of government bonds, so we support the presentation. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-24-269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As Mr. Group leader said, about two years ago, Parliament amended the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, which also allowed residence in the interests of the national economy. To date, this was a prerequisite for the purchase of EUR 250 thousand of settlement bonds by the private or majority-owned company. These bonds are issued at home exclusively by the Government Debt Management Centre, but are not purchased directly by residents, but by intermediate traders. Most of these are foreign offshore companies, registered in Malta, Singapore, Cayman and Cyprus. These intermediary companies operate at significant cost and sell these bonds at significant cost. On the one hand, they receive these bonds at discount rates from the Government Debt Management Center, as they pay around EUR 220,000 for these bonds instead of EUR 250 thousand, because the person who wants to settle is not buying directly bonds, but is contracted through these intermediary companies, and the companies are recording these bonds. These intermediary companies also charge a significant brokerage commission for the transaction, which is between 40 and 45 thousand euros per business on a case-by-case basis. A few weeks ago, on one of the Internet sites, CEO of one of the distribution companies, Hungary State Special Debt Fund CEO Lian Wangúr reported on how this had worked in the past, and he proudly said that 2200 settlement securities had been sold in the past period, only 1800 in 2014, and? Are they selling this in Chinese and Vietnamese relations? The majority of this was a Chinese investor who bought this. He also said, Mr Lian Wang, that this is actually not a bad deal for them, because interest is paid in advance in connection with the purchase at the discount price, because the difference between EUR 221 thousand and EUR 250 thousand is immediate, plus the EUR 45 thousand commission that will be charged in connection with the business. But it calmed us immediately that they were not doing so well because most of this goes to events promoting the settlement policy, Mr. Wang said. If we calculate this? Isn't that a big magic trick? , 2200 times about 20 million is about 40 billion forints commission, so Lian Wang's company spent about that much to promote the business, as he said. There's nothing wrong with the amendment of the law itself. Does the country need resources in this way? Do we even agree on that? The problem is the role of these intermediary companies. On the one hand, why these offshore companies are needed in the future and why they are not provided by Hungarian companies, these debt distribution tasks are carried out by tax companies at home. And one more question arises in this regard: if we raise this from EUR 250 000 to EUR 300 000, how much will the commission and benefit of these intermediary companies increase? How much more do you make on this transaction, and why does this brokerage commission not remain in the pocket of the Hungarian State? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-24-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group has indicated that it does not make a keynote speaker. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-24-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I promise you, I do not wish to extend and take advantage of the time frame, but I would like to make a few brief comments. As Mr Rogan said, the opposition will certainly have the same accusations and criticisms, well, yes, partly the same, he is right that this is a technical amendment, but I would also like to make a question right away. In 2012, this institution was introduced with great and great hopes, and this amendment was created, but we have not heard since then how many large investors from any third country have been lured here thanks to this institution, who, and let's say, how many jobs have been created. We are more skeptical about the success of this institution. If someone has been following Jobbik's foreign policy for many years now, we can be or are accused of many things, but it is not that we would reject or represent the opening of the East consistently, but we say no to this proposal alone, because we believe that the opening of the East, the Eastern Partnership, does not depend on securing a loophole that can be opened with money, and now with a little more money, even if it is cheap or perhaps the cheapest in Europe. So this change to raise it from 250 thousand to 300 thousand euros shows in itself that it is actually a sort of tribute payment. At the same time, we would also like to stress that, due to our nature of transit countries, there is a potential risk, where appropriate, of national security risks, especially with money in this world, and not only in Hungary, but as we see the events of the past period, there is a great deal of money that can be done. There is no need to go far, there is the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, and there will be no God, there will be other conflicts or other foreign policy problems, if anyone is wealthy, then, if appropriate, for himself or, where appropriate, for his own circles, he will be able to provide various permissions with this institution within the Schengen borders, which is merely a question of money. We still do not see the guarantees that would eliminate these risks, and it would be a guarantee that it cannot be abused with bad intentions. So once again, we have no problem with investors, our problem is that money can take care of a lot of things, and unfortunately, as we see, it's taken care of. Once again, is it that we are transit countries and such world political events are taking place? In a negative way? and grow more and more, this increases and raises the risk and the possibility that elements that can be infiltrated simply by money? To put it mildly? we do not want to see it in Hungary or in Europe. At the same time, we also see that if we have the right background, we have the right financial resources, then Hungary offers us the cheapest option within the Schengen borders. So I'm not going to tell you a big secret by saying that Jobbik can't support this kind of proposal in any way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The amendment does not change the substance of the legal institution, it is now possible to buy a residence permit or a residence permit for EUR 300 000, but only increases the stakes of the proposal before us. [[19.10]] While the restrictions themselves are both eligible and rational, where they are really important, so that there should be no offshore businesses as intermediaries, no change, and the philosophy of the entire institution, the entire institution of the settlement policy, remains in doubt. In more normal places, it is about direct capital investments that primarily create jobs. Consider some examples. In the United States, a million dollars in investment and at least ten new jobs. In Ireland, 300,000 euros and at least two new jobs. In Germany, 250 thousand euros and at least five new jobs. And in Korea, there are $500,000 US dollars and five new jobs. However, we do not have any sustainable conditions except the purchase of government bonds, in a country where the primary problem for people is that they cannot get a real, lasting, crisis-resistant, new job. If, for some reason, it is to consider maintaining such an institution, it would be to create jobs, while the regulation does not impose any such conditions. Dear Parliament, In spring 2013, the government announced the marketing of the special type of Hungarian government bonds, the so-called settlement bonds. Since the purchase of the bond allows foreigners to obtain a residence permit under more favourable conditions than usual, the government believes that this will boost the economy. However, there are a number of disturbing moments in the story. One of these is that the Government Debt Management Center typically contracted to sell bonds with offshore companies. At this point, I would like to refer to the response that Gábor Vágó to the written question entitled 'offshore', which was answered by the Minister of National Economy on 30 May 2013. Mihály Varga wrote: "I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, unlike many companies with truly offshore backgrounds, these companies are not delivering money, but are bringing millions of euros into Hungary. I think we should stop here for a second. Our basic problem with offshore companies is not that they bring money out or bring us in first, their presence is the problem. Because even though we claim that they are formally bringing in money, the presence of offshore companies poisons the economy, the fact that companies with such facilitations are connected to the Hungarian economy's bloodstream, which then, with a few shops away, untaxed pumping out the incomes of the national economy, is simply unacceptable. We are talking about a country where two and a half times the government debt has been pumped into offshore tomatoes in the last quarter of a century. From this point forward, it is quite amazing that the Minister of National Economy reacts in this way, that it is not even interesting that it is offshore or not offshore, because money is not being brought out, but brought in. Of course, with this story, you're gonna bring me in first, and then you're gonna get me out with a big profit? God knows where? Untaxed income from the Hungarian national economy. The first such company was Hungary State Special Debt Fund, registered in the Kamjan Islands, which was already forgotten by my fellow Member. It is well known that the Kamyan Islands are an offshore paradise, although Rogán Antal repeatedly denied that the Cayman Islands would be an offshore paradise, where companies are registered in order not to have to pay taxes. According to Mr. Fraction Manager, this is not a problem, and he sleeps in peace because he knows that there are good Hungarian businessmen behind it. However, an undertaking does not become offshore because of whether or not we know the owners, it is just one of the characteristics, it is offshore something that puts its seat in a place where there is no or minimal tax, while it does not actually do its activities there. You know, offshore has two types. In one case, and indeed this is also remembered by the Fundamental Law, it is true that only direct State aid will prohibit this type of offshore when its ownership background is not transparent to an undertaking. However, we can also consider offshore companies where we know who the owner is, but they are registered in certain countries, in post offices, in places with different colonial status, where they have obviously taken out businesses with tax avoidance, so to speak, tax optimization, in many cases politicians. LMP has already presented a package of laws against this type of offshore to the Parliament on several occasions, so that public or EU funds from the area of public funds are not only sweeping out companies with an opaque ownership structure, but also sweeping out the various listed companies, which I believe are, if I remember correctly, listed offshore tomatoes up to K, including those registered in the Cayman Islands. There's no way public money can work around public property like this. It is therefore unacceptable that the Government Debt Management Centre enters into any agreement with such companies. It is unacceptable that the Hungarian State or local governments or state-owned companies conclude contracts with companies with public funds, public assets and public rights with offshore backgrounds. And not only is an offshore whose ownership is opaque, it is also an offshore who maintains a mailbox in the Marshall Islands or even in the Cayman Islands. Let's not look at each other as idiots, we know exactly what this is about, and we know exactly that this type of company has been taping under previous governments, and unfortunately this continues. By the way, the owner of one of the companies, Mr. Lian Wang, also mentioned, told us at a press conference that his company was an offshore. Of course, none of them mentioned that the other owner, the former head of Wallis, was the former CEO of Hajdú-Bet, to reconnect the threads. After a year and a half, we didn't find out what was needed to involve offshore brokerage companies and how they fit into the government's verbal anti-offshore policy. Why does the government let ten billion out of their hands and give it away for nothing? Distributors collect around €40,000 from customers while receiving government bonds at discount prices, currently winning €30,000. The question is how much the discount margin and commission increase from 250 to 300 thousand euros by increasing the price of government bonds. If proportionate, the profits so far will rise from EUR 70,000 per bond to EUR 84 thousand. By the end of the year, the number of bonds sold will rise to around 2400. This means that until now, the state has released HUF 50 billion of income from the country untaxed. He doesn't allow it, he actually pushes it abroad, thus maintaining the country's harmful money pump. In four years, they're going to sell 4,000 bonds. This means at least another HUF 40 billion out of the Hungarian national economy. Today, a Hungarian small enterprise, if it has a HUF 100 income, after paying VAT and all taxes and contributions, remains HUF 50, but in many cases 20-30. Government-sponsored offshore companies, on the other hand, don't pay a single penny tax to the budget. Of course, offshore companies raise not only tax and economic policy issues. There are other issues, such as how to be sure that bonds will go to the right place, whether national security risks arise. This has already been raised by my better fellow Member, and I would like the Secretary of State for Home Affairs to answer on this issue. Why is there no public and constantly updated database of how many bonds have been purchased and from what country? The fact is that the same offshore coalition continues as we have seen in the last two and a half decades. While the government strives to tax maximize both this year's and next year's budgets, taxing Hungarians, it does not support the LMP initiative that would tax offshore companies, their profits. Antal Rogán and the Orbán government could only do so to soften the former regulation, to unfair tax amnesty against honest taxpayers, to introduce a special savings account for money laundering and to facilitate offshore real estate transactions. The majority of the government rejects LMP's anti-offshore proposals, which would sweep the offshore knights out of the domestic economy, and which, in the case of state leaders and government officials, would severely prohibit any offshore activity or interest. With the fact that the Parliament has not once included these LMP legislative proposals, the governing parties have repeatedly stated that they are on the side of the offshore knights. And, of course, let us not have any illusion, the offshore is not merely a question of corruption. It is a matter of not talking about the independence of the country, the standing of the Hungarian economy, as long as a pump of this size is on the Hungarian national economy. The country's exposure, the dependence of the Hungarian national economy, is partly caused by this offshore pump, and therefore a government that, through various techniques, even increases the presence of offshore businesses, and refuses to do anything to prevent such businesses and bodies from contacting the state, municipal companies and bodies, from having access to any state law, public property or public money, further enhances the dependence and exposure of the Hungarian national economy. [[19.20]] Offshoreisation is one of the channels through which the dependency of the Hungarian national economy is further strengthened. Therefore, even though the proposal itself contains rational solutions within this framework, the institution itself will be rejected as long as it provides the opportunity for various offshore companies, among which all sorts of suspicious figures, to search at this party. We reject any proposal that continues to favour offshore companies against honest Hungarian taxpayers. And, of course, we reject this institution until job creation is a condition for the conclusion of such bond transactions. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-24-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[Laszlo Varju: Yes.]] I'll take a push of a button, please. Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-275	[[No sound.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House,
u2014-11-24-276	Congressman, your microphone isn't working, I'd like to signal. Is your card set? Did he press a button? [[László Varju: Does it work now?]] I do now. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-277	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to comply with the call that Mr.Antal Rogán, Head of Group, does not feel at the disadvantage of not being fully aware of the fact that we have done not only months, but years ago, that, in addition to the operation of this legal institution, we must protest against its solutions. In fact, I had been in correspondence with Minister Mihály Varga more than a year ago about the entry and residence of third-country nationals, who had not yet taken responsibility for drawing on the solution that they were actually doing business through offshore companies, but redirected me to Mr.Antal Rogán, who replied that all these claims could not be understood because this is not an offshore company, because we know his owners. Thus, the company registered in the Cayman Islands, which we have heard here in several acts, and even the statements of this company, I think that as long as you apply this solution, neither the amendment nor the legal institution can be supported in this form. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-278	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. You have the floor.
u2014-11-24-279	Mr President, Dear House, There seems to be a technical amendment before us, which actually changes a number, yet it is worth looking behind it and exploring the motives that the government has provided for this proposal, as it may be attractive to have a similar bond. In many places, half a million euros is the amount that should be placed on the table. So at both European and regional level, domestic legislation is cheap and the amount that states expect, for example in Portugal, in the form of property purchases, is typically much higher than ours. It is therefore worth considering the benefits of this demand for Hungary. With regard to the government's justification, perhaps it would be more honest to say that it is a mass of tens of billions in revenue that appears as a realistic expectation, and that is what makes sense for you. We can therefore talk about a chapter in the fight against so-called sovereign debt. We, the rightists, would be much more interested in the multiplier effect that the capital thus involved may have. This would require impact assessments, at least on statements, more specifically on the number of jobs that can be created by this institution. It is even more important to me that, if such a form of capital comes in, how many Hungarian jobs can be lost or put at risk, because we do not see exactly what industries and in what form this appears. However, we should also see that we are now not getting answers to very serious questions for the second year. It can be seen that, by entrusting intermediary companies to the actual sale, which, as has been said, are registered in the Cayman Islands, Malta, Cyprus, which are contracted in the territory of that country, the question arises as to what would happen if the so-called customer turned directly to the GOK, as at this moment it is happening that a person wishing to obtain a settlement policy is buying securities from a private company that buys special settlement bonds from the GOK. It can be seen that even if we accept this legal institution, as we do not, it still raises very serious questions about the need for similar intermediaries. It can be seen, just as citizenship cannot be bought or treated as a commodity, so the right of establishment is similar in our view. But perhaps the most false justification was that government debt reduction was financed in this way. That was a literal quote from the original explanation. Let's see what happened in reality. They burned almost HUF 3000 billion of private pension funds, almost a tenth of the annual GDP. And what did the government debt do in exchange for the great struggle and the amount received for the settlement bond? Government debt increased to HUF 20 041 billion in 2010 together with repo operations, in the report of the State Debt Management Centre, but we see that according to MNB data in Q2 2014, we are talking about HUF 25 432 billion. So their fight against sovereign debt has led to such a result, and there are thousands of billions of dollars in difference, I repeat, despite the fact that most of the private pension fund assets burned have been transferred here, and despite such justification, they will also provide the use of the funds collected for the settlement policy in order to reduce the debt. You can see that they're totally screwed up with this plan. It can be felt that the availability or possibility of a so-called settlement policy opens a door that is completely unnecessary. This is not the opening of the East, this is not the way Jobbik envisioned the connection with our already important and historic strategic partners, because it is visible that Hungary is under a double press. On the one hand, the cheapest place in the whole zone is to acquire the right of establishment simply by placing capital goodies on the table in an industry that is unknown to us and, where appropriate, to us, with an unknown corporate intermediary background, and on the other hand, we are the country that is the easiest to access the Schengen area through its borders to refugees. So if we are talking about the fact that a foreign entity or even an economic refugee or a political refugee from the Carpathian Basin would be approaching us at the moment, we see that in all respects it is the easiest thing to do in Hungary, because it is the cheapest to obtain a right of establishment, to break in through the cheapest corporate transactions, to cross the green border as an economic refugee, to perhaps treat the so-called refugees with the most glovesy hands, and to see that it is perhaps the easiest place to disappear from the eyes of the authorities when arriving to Hungary with such intentions. This not double, but perhaps multiple press should not be left as a risk factor in Hungarian public life and in Hungarian life, and therefore can only express the clear rejection of Jobbik in relation to this proposal. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-280	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I withdraw.]] Congressman has withdrawn his speech. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'm going to ask Secretary Charles Kontra if he wants...? I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary of State no longer wishes to respond, but he presented the government's position. I will ask Mr Antal Rogán, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Antal Rogán: Yes.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-24-281	Thank you very much. I would also like to try to be brief, because my fellow Members have given their views correctly, not using the full timeframe. Indeed, there were many things that were said in this regard when the settlement bond scheme was introduced. I still think I denied it, so allow me to respond. I would also do it for Mr Schiffer, but he has left the Chamber, or at least I don't see him, although he was the most vehement in this regard. [[19.30]] I would like to tell you, first of all, that we are talking about companies who are not active in Hungary. Therefore, it would be completely unjustified to entrust Hungarian companies to otherwise sell public bonds in China, because they would not be able to do so. This can be done by those who, by the way, are normally able to carry out their activities in that area. In China, by the way, this is a business that many agencies have built up on. Obviously, only through cooperation with these agencies can such a programme succeed. Of course, there are commissions that these agencies ask for, but they have to hire people who, let's say, trust, for example, a Hungarian government bond, and let's be honest, the vast majority of them hear about Hungary for the first time when they encounter this possibility. But we have the opportunity to bring them closer here. It's obvious that in a year or two, they'll be bringing news of the program, bringing news to the country, but right now, they're gonna have to be convinced. We can't do this. They believe those who, by the way, have successfully carried out such programmes and who take a kind of guarantee for the investment they make on their part. That is why intermediary companies do take guarantees and, in addition to the guarantees, take up a full legal representation of six years. I'd like to reassure everyone that there is no company in this system that hasn't otherwise revealed its owners. This should be done individually. They shall also be made public by the Economic Committee in its decisions at all times. These exposed individuals, for example, in the Chinese case, Mr Lian Wang, who, I think, is the most prestigious owner of the company in question, is the minority owner and, by the way, the managing director of the company; or the Moore who has played a significant role in the establishment and operation of BorsodChem in Hungary. BorsodChem is one of the largest foreign investments in Hungary and one of the largest employers. I would also like to add that we would like to create jobs. But that's what abuse usually comes from. In England, for example, the program is criticized for such things as taking money, putting it in a bank, then creating 3-4 jobs, and then, when you have received the passport, you will, of course, liquidate them. Or, in the case of the Spanish or Portuguese programme, the huge scandal was that there was a need to buy real estate, and when buying real estate, the same real estate was exchanged among themselves in order to otherwise obtain a settlement. I think that the financing of the Hungarian state is a much clearer requirement. They can be persuaded to invest in Hungary if they already have ties to the country. That's why the program requires that you live here, establish a permanent address here, appear at certain intervals. These are all very important prerequisites, and they help you to actually buy real estate, where you have to live, and then you have to constantly bring in an opportunity for Hungary. I see that the vast majority of the first 100 people involved in settlement are already interested in investing in Hungary. So I ask everyone that the result of this be withdrawn when we see, in addition to the registration of the settlement government bond, what investments and businesses have been made in Hungary, which have otherwise been established. Of course, the countries from which the bond has been registered and how many people have arrived from which state are the information and database of the public, honourable fellow Members. This is available and may be requested at any time at the Economic Committee meeting. I would be very happy to ask the Immigration Department to report on this, because there is nothing to hide here. I would also like to say, instead of the Secretary of State, that, of course, the programme is part of a national security audit. The essence of this is that in every accessible database that exists in international law enforcement databases and other places, applicants are checked, and this is a prerequisite for someone to be granted a residence permit. Those who do not comply with them may be rejected by the Hungarian State without justification. So, in this case, it does not even have to be addressed to justify this to the person. It can be rejected without reason. I indicate that, under such conditions, the right of establishment itself may be revoked at any time. So the Home Secretary always has the opportunity to do that. If information emerges subsequently, on the basis of which you feel that you should do so, you can do so on behalf of the Hungarian government. We have reserved these licenses for ourselves, and I think that this risk must, of course, be taken by those who want to have an investment opportunity in Hungary. Given that I have heard the same arguments, which I can say the same, I think only now, in the light of the experience of a year and a half, I would ask my fellow Members to consider supporting this fundamentally technical amendment in the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-24-282	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Following up on the 1995 CXXV on National Security Services a general debate on the amendment of certain laws in the context of national security control until closure. The submission is T/2077. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the National Security Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-24-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of national security control is to examine whether risk factors may be identified in the case of persons nominated for an important and confidential job or in the case of persons holding such a job, and in the case of persons involved in a body managing classified information, using which the activities of such persons may be affected or challenged for unlawful purposes. According to the system of national security control previously in force, the existence of security conditions was examined at a given moment in the national security audit carried out prior to the appointment of the person concerned in an important and confidential position. The safety opinion issued on this basis demonstrated the national security competence of the job holder for a period of five years. This practice has not been able to reveal the risks that arise during the occupation, in particular the circumstances which may have been influenced, as a matter of fact, during the post in question. In order to make the system of national security control more effective, the Parliament adopted the 2013 LXXII. Amendment Act. The Constitutional Court ruled that two elements of the amending law, the continuous national security control and the absence of an external, government-related remedy, were contrary to the Fundamental Law and were annulled. As a result of the decision, parallel rules have been developed, sometimes allowing for multiple interpretations. In order to eliminate this situation, the provisions of the law relating to national security control need to be amended repeatedly and comprehensively. The purpose of this bill is to regulate the institution of national security control in a system that ensures effective protection of national security interests, in accordance with constitutional principles, as follows. National security control shall be initiated prior to the establishment of the legal relationship concerned, subject to the consent of the data subject, and in the event of refusal of consent, such legal relationship shall not be established. The initiative will start by completing the safety questionnaire and sending it to the national security service. As a main rule, the employer's authority or the appointing authority is the originator. It is proposed that a national security check may be conducted with a single 60-day extension period of 30 days, the national security service may consult the audited person, listen to persons associated with the audited person, verify the data contained in the questionnaire and carry out a secret gathering of information. The National Security Service is issuing a security opinion on national security control. The safety opinion shall have a period of validity of five years and a new inspection shall be initiated thereafter. It is proposed that, in the case of a person with a valid security opinion who has a legal relationship or a candidate for national security control, the existence of safety conditions may be examined in the context of a review procedure. A review procedure may be conducted if the content of the job completed changes, if a person with a valid security opinion is assigned to a new job, if the person subject to national security control so requests, if the subject of the national security control has failed to comply with the obligation to report a change in national security control or is justified by the nature of the notified change. [[19.40]] The reason for the review is a possible change in living conditions which may justify a re-examination of national security risks. Finally, the reasons for review on the basis of national security professional aspects are mentioned. The main point is that if the national security service itself becomes aware of a security risk condition at the initiative of the inspection, the review may be initiated. The law lists the most typical of these cases. Each of these circumstances may be a condition indicating a safety risk which may justify the review procedure. Titles of the review procedure may be divided into two groups. One of them is those which may justify a review for formalisation and for reasons known to the person under control: a new job, a change in the content of the job, a request, or a situation where there is, or the possibility of, a security risk. Dear Parliament, Accordingly, in the first case, the person subject to national security control may be informed of the initiation or order of the review procedure and fill in the safety questionnaire again. In contrast, in the second case, it may be informed of the order and the conduct of the review and of the outcome of the safety advice issued after the completion of the review procedure. The review procedure is therefore always known to the audited person, thus giving him the opportunity to appeal on the one hand and to initiate the procedure of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on the other. The security opinion issued after the completion of the review procedure shall have the same legal consequences as the security opinion issued in the context of the designation of the legal relationship for national security control. In the case of a safety risk assessment, the legal relationship cannot be established or maintained. In the absence of a safety risk, it shall certify the existence of safety conditions with a period of validity of five years, while at the same time losing the validity of the previous safety advice. Dear Parliament, As regards the review procedure, the draft provides for the possibility of external control, which is also a condition of the Constitutional Court, which ensures that legal order and procedure are examined regardless of the use of the means of redress. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights may, at the request of the person subject to the review procedure, examine the case in question and, of his own motion, the practice of the national security service concerning the review procedure. However, the powers of investigation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights do not extend to the professionality of establishing national security risks. If the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights finds that there is a breach of fundamental rights in order to carry out the review procedure, he shall inform the Minister for National Security Service and at the same time make a recommendation to take the necessary measures. If the managing minister does not consider the action to be appropriate, he shall inform the National Security Committee of the National Assembly thereof. The draft also lays down the rules of procedure of the National Security Committee of the National Assembly concerning the above. He or she may lodge a complaint with the Minister by the Director General of the National Security Service carrying out the verification with regard to the findings which he or she considers to be incorrect and the risk factor identified. If the Director-General of the National Security Service agrees with the content of the complaint, the safety opinion shall be withdrawn and a new safety opinion shall be issued. If the Director-General does not agree with the complaint, he shall submit it together with his resolution to the Minister. The Minister shall investigate the complaint within 30 days of its receipt, which may be extended once by 30 days. The Minister rejects the unfounded complaint, either grants the complaint and corrects the errors or commits the service concerned to a new procedure. The data subject may lodge a complaint against the Minister's decision with the National Security Committee. Amendment to the Law on the Service Status of Professional Members of Armed Bodies? Like the provisions on public service officials? it also provides for the possibility for professional members of armed bodies to offer other positions not subject to national security control in the event of a national security risk assessment. The new powers of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in connection with the review procedure also require the amendment of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act. In addition, the draft introduces a number of laws on technical amendments necessary for the cessation of multi-level national security controls. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the reasons and arguments presented, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-24-284	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. In the first round, keynote speakers will be held. I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-24-285	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Even in the previous parliamentary term, on 3 June 2013, the Act of Independent Representatives tabled as a motion to amend certain laws necessary to establish new rules for national security control, which included a number of necessary and timely amendments and innovations. But the Constitutional Court? As the Secretary of State said? did you find the two points of the new system of national security control contained in the law, the so-called continuous national security control and the lack of an external remedy, i.e. independent of the government, to be contrary to the law, and these essential passages? Because that was basically the point of amending that law? Destroyed it. However, the decision did not affect the related provisions, but it would not have been fully applicable. The Ministry of Interior has now submitted this new, comprehensive amendment, which addresses the observations of the Constitutional Court, in order to remove the situation of incoherence. Although the Constitutional Court has declared the institutional system of continuous control to be against the law, it has stated in its decision that the examination of security risks is not, in itself, unconstitutional during the legal relationship under national security control. The bill that has just been tabled has been drawn up taking this into account. According to the provisions abolished by the Constitutional Court, the existence of security risks in the legal relationship could have been investigated at any time without a formal initiative on the basis of continuous national security control. Conversely, according to the current bill, the existence of safety conditions can be examined in the context of a review procedure. It can be conducted in five cases, as the Secretary of State has already quoted. One, if the content of the legal relationship of the person in which the national security control is based changes; if another legal relationship is designated; if the person checked so requests, or if the person checked failed to fulfil the obligation to report a change in the national security control or if the nature of the change notified so justifies; in the fifth case, if the person concerned is entitled to take the initiative of a national security check or if the Director General of the national security service becomes aware of the circumstances indicating a security risk, in particular the following. The circumstances themselves are clearly defined in the new legislation: criminal proceedings against a controlled person or close relative or infringement proceedings liable to be brought against him or her; material change in the circumstances of the controlled person or close relative in relation to foreign persons, entities or foreign interests; acquisition of foreign citizenship, acquisition of a foreign passport, drug abuse, alcohol addiction, behaviour related to alcohol abuse; significant indebtedness in relation to verifiable income, significant failure to fulfil financial obligations; significant increase in assets of unknown origin; life-style not covered by verifiable income? This could, for example, have been applied extremely well in the Simon case - rules on the handling of classified information, the use of security technology systems, and the breach of security requirements in relation to the occupation. Among other things? Are they right? I can use it because I'm under such control because I'm vice president of the National Security Committee. I am ready for everyone to carry out this type of control. These are all safety-risk circumstances, but it is also apparent from the above five-point list that the imposition of the review procedure can be divided into two large groups: one of which is a formalised review justified for reasons known to the person under control. In addition, if the circumstances or the possibility of a safety risk arise, the person can only be informed of the order and conduct of the review and the outcome of the review and the content of the safety opinion issued after the completion of the review procedure, and this can only be done subsequently. [[19.50]] The other significant change is the absence of a remedy or the granting of a remedy. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights may, on the one hand, investigate the matter at the request of the person subject to the review procedure. On the other hand, an investigation may be carried out of its own motion with regard to the practice of the national security service concerning the review procedure. If the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights does not consider the action of the Minister of Governance to be appropriate, he will inform the National Security Committee of the National Assembly. There was no further appeal against the decision on the passage submitted by the law adopted last year. This was annulled by the Constitutional Court, as I mentioned earlier, and, according to the law, a complaint can now be lodged with the National Security Committee within 15 days of receipt of the complaint, so the law originally restored the state that we experienced a few times in the previous C-type investigations in the complaint handling process in the committee's work. I would ask the honourable Members to support the legislative proposals prepared to eliminate the lack of coherence in the light of Ab's decision. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-24-286	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-287	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vice President. I think that what you have finished your speech can be achieved, since these coherence disorders and these anomalies were highlighted by opposition representatives, including socialist representatives, a year and a half ago. If we were to hold this debate a year and a half ago, we could say that there would be a close consensus situation where, at the cost of some refining, we are actually talking about a fully eligible proposal. It was a pity for the year and a half, and it was a pity that this had to be the decision of the Constitutional Court, when it was clear to the contrary that the problems on which we drew attention were, in particular, the question of redress and the question of continuous control, would indeed conflict with the Fundamental Law. That's what the Constitutional Court said. We see the good intentions and the professional knowledge that has been put into this law, but there are still a few other details in which further reflection will be needed. We will also present an amendment to this. This story is a little similar to the nightmare or pre-registration called registration, which was also not believed by pro-government representatives, and then the Constitutional Court said the decisive word in this. It is fortunate that even the majority of governments respect the decision of the Constitutional Court. What the Secretary of State and Vice-President have said in professional terms is otherwise correct. It is regrettable that we had to wait so long to get to the point of finding the right balance between national security interests and the private sector on this issue. After all, the security of the country, the security of the nation, all measures and legislative proposals that bring this matter forward are eligible, but, of course, the integrity of privacy must be taken into account and the correct ratio found. Your proposal now provides a good answer for continuous monitoring, since it is the follow-up and the involvement of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights among the remedies, it is a correct procedure, and the cases that you have listed are virtually taxative, which already justify the need for this follow-up, which is much more forward-looking than the ongoing control, and which respects privacy more than ever, but still gives an answer not to the fact that nothing will happen for five years. After all, it must be stated that there is a need to amend, not just because of what Mr Vice-President said, but for many other reasons. The time has passed above the control that nothing will happen for 4-5 years, and practically a constant state remains. After all, in living conditions, many other changes may occur that justify such a follow-up check. It is also right that the safety risk alone is not always marked as a punishment by this bill, since there may be safety risks that may occur independently of the person, not necessarily because he has committed some kind of misdemeanor, but that there may be living conditions which alone pose a safety risk, and it is right that this should not be taken as a punishment. Your proposal is not a good answer to the other constitutional issue, and there is still a problem. After all, the question of redress, as can be done and correct in the follow-up procedure, in the complaint procedure, is that the former competence of the National Security Committee is restored, even the lack of an external redress forum is acceptable, so the lack of an independent court in Hungary is problematic. Would I draw attention to that particular case here? I mean, let's split these relationships up. If a person has not yet been under national security control, has not been in a professional or public service relationship and tries to establish such a legal relationship and establish a security risk, then it may be possible to ask whether the existence of a judicial path is correct in this case, since we are still talking about a non-existent legal relationship. However, I would like to draw attention to the case where, where appropriate, a person has been in a service under national security control for decades and there is a national security risk to him. In such a case, both the Committee on Ministerial Affairs and the Committee on National Security are not enough. In this case, you may ruin someone's entire life if, where appropriate, a risk to national security is wrongly identified. In this case? And maybe that's the most important question that we're going to need consensus on? It is very important to open a judicial procedure. Therefore, if such a legal relationship is already established, and for some reason the national security risk results in the termination of this legal relationship, whether in such a case a special court, since there is already a judicial way, for example, in the case of the use of secret service tools, or, in the case of access to classified information, a special court which may have powers to review in such a case. It is important that this happens independently of the government and the majority of governments or, where appropriate, opposition representatives. Therefore, it is not right for the National Security Committee to say the final word, but it would be better to lead it on a judicial path. Such a designated special court could be set up, which should at least have the power, as we propose, to annul the procedure and establish a new control. Neither do we naively believe that it would be appropriate for a court to overrule national security expertise, if necessary. The right thing is that if there is a procedural or professional error detected by the court, this special court, then it must be clarified in a new procedure. I believe that this remedy, which would be similar to such a cash-flow right, has a fundamental interest because of legal certainty. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] We've noticed that this law has also involved other types of relationship settlement. I would like to mention, as such, the use of voluntary reserve soldiers in the Military National Security Service. We consider this to be a serious problem, even if that is not the main issue, but would we signal it? and here, does the approving nodding of my fellow Members always comfort me, even if it comes from the bench on my left? That it is not right for such an important issue to be resolved in the context of national security control. The voluntary military service should not be substantially modified in relation to the rules of national security control. A separate debate should be opened on whether and where the voluntary reserve service is appropriate. Just as interesting is the foreign state's foreign law enforcement provision on the so-called ban scandal, which concerns the ban on entry. We consider this to be welcome and right to be included. This is also highlighted in an unfortunate case as to why it is necessary to ask these types of questions in relation to the safety sheet. It is also right, however, that the number of safety checks, if categories A, B, C are removed and uniform checks are made, may be reduced. There is a unified system. Of course, the justification of this will have to be monitored so as not to lead to the fact that the three categories actually disappear, but there will be more checks, and everyone who has previously been checked will also be checked. So I think it is important to place a strong emphasis on the fact that only in very justified cases, but then the most stringent control will be carried out. Therefore, in summary, we would say that some details, in particular clarification of the right of appeal, may lead to consensus with the Socialist faction at least in the event that the external remedy is opened at least for the existing service, professional or public service relationship, and that a special court would be given a cadastral power. In this case, we would be close to avoiding the applicability of these few details, such as the voluntary reserveers, to the Military National Security Service, this bill would indeed be progressive and in line with the requirements of the profession. He's trying to find the right ratio between national security and the private sector, it's not an easy task, I guess. It is very difficult to say where the border is and when it is right to allow national security services into the private sector, if necessary, despite the person's will. There are situations like this. [[20.00]] There's a delicate balance here. Unfortunately, I would return to the fact that it took so long to do so, and that had to be the decision of the Constitutional Court. It was clear to me that these would not stand the test of constitutionality. We are also preparing an amendment proposal, we are also preparing a technical consultation in the National Security Committee, and thank you very much for the work of my fellow Members, because we have come with substantive and improving proposals. I would ask the Secretary of State to consider this in this narrow, yet very important case, when it really is someone's career, 10-20-30 years of service to national security or any other body in which such screening is necessary, such a check-up can be ruined by a poorly done check-up. We have seen in the committee that there are very few, but there may be mistakes, and here I must say that after 20 to 30 years of secret service relations, there is no way to undo it if someone has a security risk. It's not like a football player who goes from one team to another, and where he went, he's welcomed. Well, the national security officer with whom, after 20 to 30 years of service, under questionable circumstances or by mistake, we must be in good faith and establish a national security risk, I ask you where it is being taken. What kind of vision does a person have when he's 40-50-60 before retirement? In this situation, I think that the possibility that at least one independent court will examine this case and require at least a new procedure for the services, the inspection service, would be considered. If we could move forward on this, this proposal would most likely be eligible. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-288	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We'll get back to work. Here comes Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of Jobbik. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-24-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I made the same arguments as President Zsolt Molnár, Chairman of the National Security Committee, from a slightly different point of view, of course. But I think it is important to note at the beginning what preceded last year's amendment of 2013, which was a great, great pleasure, and this was partly due to the fact that the issue of national security, regardless of party standing, is important to all factions and all parties alike. Last year's amendment, which, thanks to the Constitutional Court, is now being clarified, preceded by a rather serious joint debate, joint work, and discussions outside committee meetings, which essentially created a consensus position. I say this as a criticism that this amendment did not have it, but I hope that the discussion of the amendments to be tabled by Wednesday and the debate on really objective reasoning will bring about the necessary consensus. It is quite obvious that there is no perfect screening, no comprehensive, perfect mechanism, since dust can always enter the machine. At the same time, I think it is important to note that the biggest problem that I think we can now say from the experience of the past is that everything comes from the fact that if it is not consistently observed or not given, God, in some cases the double standard appears to be met. I'm not sure it's on purpose, but I think there's a lot of that that could be brought in, based on the examples of the last few years. And unfortunately, in many places this is possible because of the lack of exactness, the incomplete list, and many of the rubber paragraphs that I think could and should be amended. The fact that there will be a new task for the National Security Committee, or it is old and new, that we can deal with the complaint thanks to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights about the review procedure and its information, I am partly pleased that it has started to be a bit empty in relation to the fact that it has not been involved in such cases. At the same time, I think it is important that the committee does not play the role of the service, of course, because we are not the experts who reveal or prove these risks, but often for the exact reason of the outsider, and because we have a lot of such experience, we may be able to move the matter forward or help it sometimes. What I consider to be a problem is immediately the 4th. §, where it is categorically listed, what constitutes a national security risk. I do not want to point out that this is not the case, because it is a national security risk if there is a circumstance against the person concerned that violates or threatens the interests of the protection of classified information. That's absolutely right, I totally agree. Well, what's the real national security risk if it's not? However, what I would like to take as a negative example from the past period, and I do not want to generate a debate with this, but the campaigns and the various elections have ended, and I think we can now objectively talk about three examples, partly from the previous cycle and partly from the current cycle. There was a special sub-committee on the Portik-Laborc meetings, and, indeed, before the encryption was lifted, it was complete, how shall I say, almost pages or very serious paragraphs appeared in the press. It was quite clear that if the service and the institution concerned took it seriously here that, as long as these classified information were not dissolved, one of the experts delegated to the press within the Committee, among the members of the Committee or to the Committee, was one of the detailed information provided to the press. But it may also be that information was provided by someone involved in the services. And then, chronologically, I went to the Simon Gábor case, and the situation here was similar. Then the Béla Kovács case came, and the situation was similar again. And the problem is, he wasn't actually followed by any kind of investigation. Perhaps Mr President can confirm that this has been a problem in several cases after various closed sessions, that the press has come up with things that, well, I put it mildly, let's just say that the breach of secrets has been grazed at least. And it's always been that, well, it didn't happen, all right, all right. And then the individual, it doesn't matter if he's a politician, an expert, maybe a member of the Secret Service thought he was good, so we can push the boundaries and move on. Why am I saying all this? That's because I think there's some inconsistencies here. And if this is required, it is not by accident that we require certain statuses that the classified information, right, the most delicate things in this area, should be fully protected, not offended. I mean, it's enough if I'm half-saying something or half-answering something, and we're dribbling it, and it's suitable for either economics or political life or other important segments, so to speak, minimum manipulation or extortion. I think this would be a bit good, and it's not our job, I'm just saying that it would be good for the authorities and the people involved to take this more seriously. I don't think it's a good thing that's what 5 is. In Section 5 of the Act, the law, the regulation, the public...? I don't want to go through with it right now? , but also an employer's measure. I think it would be a good idea to prevent double standards if this were to be categorically listed, who and in what cases. Because it's like that again, I don't want to be a lawyer, especially since I'm not a lawyer, but it seems to me that in some cases it will be possible to do that, in other cases it might be expected, but since the law doesn't make it clear, so, let's just say, your application may not or may not be uniform. What I would like to draw attention to is 17-18. The definition of what you are looking at in the review procedure is summarised by Vice-President Németh, in which cases this particular investigation should be re-established. It does not belong closely here, but I would like to draw attention to it here: foreign citizenship, foreign passport acquisition. When we asked for it, and think about it either in the military area or in the various staff of one of the national security services, if such things could be risk factors, and I say that they may be, it is very right that this is included, then there is that in the case of elected Members of Parliament, this is not important at all. [[20.10]] In the case of elected Members of Parliament, who, for example, constitute a law on who will be designated as risk factors by those services concerned, why and on what basis may they be qualified as risk factors, where appropriate. Once again, this does not belong to this law, but I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to it, and there was also a Simon case already mentioned, where this has certainly been raised as a risk factor, whether it was or not, we are not, of course, the authority, but it is also embedded in dealing with the necessary deficit, or at least the need for it to be, indeed, very important in the case of Members of Parliament. And, yes, one of the most lame things in the story that's been going on in the past year is the question of redress. I am skeptical about the Ombudsman's procedure, because, of course, you will comment and comment, but it does not mean anything in itself. So this is for the person involved? Is he involved in a negative way, as Mr. President has said? There won't be a solution. As long as there is no independent, objective court, or I go further, it does not necessarily need to be special, say, a military court, but there must be a body that can exercise significantly greater control over the nature of these controls. I mean, once again, I didn't necessarily consider the regulation to be wrong, but the application of which, sometimes for objective and sometimes subjective reasons, was not consistent. What I would like to point out on this point is that yes, the Minister will assess it. But now let's imagine that the minister concerned is judging, and now I'm deliberately assuming the worst, just to be clear for the sake of the example. Someone, should we assume, for political reasons? I don't want to assume, but let's assume it's for political reasons? He's gonna go down, say, on a national security review, and then he's gonna file a complaint with the minister, as a matter of fact. The minister says it's up to you to decide one way or another. Obviously, he'll make the wrong choice, then he'll be on the committee, because then he can turn to the National Security Committee. Yes, but in the National Security Committee, as in the National Assembly, as in the other committees, there is a pro-government majority. The pro-government majority will obviously not find the opposite of what the relevant minister of the government, represented and supported by themselves, has decided. And it's not in here? In quotes? There's no problem, because political loyalty and all that, so obviously I don't want to explain it. What I'm trying to say is that I think it's very clear to everyone that this is neither controlable nor objective, nor will it ever be objective. I said this because I think that, as President Molnár has said, it is very, very important that the examiner of the complaint should be a body, a body which works on the basis of an external objective standard, such as a court or a military court. Many, many, many of these cases have been dealt with, and I think that can be resolved without further ado. There are no cases of which the courts are otherwise burdened with. So I do not think that this should be applied separately, but I think that we will certainly discuss this at the committee meeting. And I hope that we will discuss this in a similar constructive way, as we did in 2013, because I would also like to point out here that, apart from the limited campaign period, I really think that this is one of the committees where politics has generally remained as far away as possible from other committees or other policies, and we have really tried to do everything on a professional basis. I hope that will be the case. Perhaps I would like to draw attention to one more thing, and it is that in the case of family members there may also be a problem where the person affected, who has been screened, may be in trouble. I would like it here if it were a little more specific or more precise, whether it was criminal proceedings, now imagine any criminal offences resulting from a traffic accident, any kind of criminal proceedings, a soldier, a police officer, an officer I don't know what kind of officer who is a prerequisite for his work and career for this kind of due diligence, and is in trouble because he has not actually committed anything, but let's say, a close family member. So I don't think this is necessarily the best way to go. It is important, but it should not be an exclusion factor if it is done by someone's immediate family member, so here too I think it can be the remedy that is most decisive in determining the quality of this law, which, by the way, contains a lot of clarification, a lot of improvements and foresight. I think that the neural point is whether the appeal will remain purely the Ombudsman, the minister and the committee, or whether we are really giving the opportunity to put this remedy into the hands of a judicial body independent of us, so that we place it in the hands of one of our judges on the basis of objective standards. Anyway, thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-290	Thank you, too. Here comes the lead speaker of the LMP, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that I expected a little more from this bill, because on the basis of the preliminary announcements, this would have had more function than simply to eliminate the changes in 2013 which were considered to be against the basic law in many cases. And I'm sad to see that they're not in it, even though the majority of the government has passed a law that would have been particularly suitable for public leaders, if, for example, they were involved in a corruption scandal and they didn't report it to their superiors, they would have condemned them, which would have created a situation that they couldn't do. And I will begin by saying that I am very sorry that this bill, in its current form, does not remedy this situation. Therefore, if this were to be adopted and the government decree behind it looked the same, Ildikó Vida would not be obliged, if appropriate, to report that it might be banned from the United States under this law. However, I would add that in our interpretation there are already laws, such as the law on the status of civil servants, under which it would have been obliged to do so. If this is not the case, and this law is capable of dealing with such a situation, then I look forward to the reaction of the government side, but now, looking at this text and what is behind it and the intention, we see that this does not bring any progress on this issue. And I'm going to start with the fact that there is a very clear social and otherwise political need to have a system of control that ensures that if a government official with a legal relationship under national security control is banned from another country on the basis of a suspicion of corruption, let's say, it is obliged to report this. So this simply needs to be reflected in this law, and I also think that, by the way, a government decree, as such, is inadequate in itself, should be guaranteed by law. My next critical remark relates to the fact that I do not understand why we have to discuss such an important and undoubtedly very important bill again during the night. There are very few of us in this room, and I think it is important for voters to see under what circumstances and in what way we are making such a cardinal law. So to a large extent, I do not agree with the fact that, by changing Monday's agenda, this bill has been put into the final bill. I would very much like the government side to understand that it is a fundamental tool for the public to be able to monitor the activities of Members here in plenary. I don't think it's appropriate, by the way, to have an eight-hour start here on Monday night. Returning to the specific text, I said basically that we received a correction of an existing unconstitutional regulation here. I think that he made a very big mistake when he used the usual instrument and, in the form of a motion for individual representatives, bypassing the administrative consultation, put an unprepared law on the table, and the regulation did not stand the test of constitutionality, it was the Constitutional Court itself, which, by the way, said by a very large majority, that this law could not work in this form in this country. [[20.20]] Just to remind us of the problems he had with him: he would have allowed continuous data collection, he would have revealed the most private secrets without any particular reason why they would begin; the citizen, the person concerned, could not even defend himself from it, because he did not even know the depth of the investigation itself, and it was a stocktaking data collection. It is outrageous that this combination may otherwise arise in a rule of law. So, in any case, it's positive that we can finally meet with a corrective attempt to resolve this situation and deal with it. In particular, I would like to look at this proposal. We have already talked more here about the fact that there are five points that I believe need to be considered separately, these are the specific situations in which the review procedure could begin. Now, in this regard, I am not entirely happy to put it mildly, because I see that you have tried to take back from the obviously unlawful or unconstitutional regulation that you have placed on the table, but this experiment is still too broad and rubberist at many points to contain a well-targeted and effective control system. But let's be specific about the situation in each case and what I object to. In the first case, if the content of the legal relationship changes, such a review would take place. Now, I think that is true in some cases, but this is comprehensively and continuously, so in any case it is completely unnecessary to prescribe. I could say that it is excessive and unnecessary, so there should be some sort of restriction here. Now, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that the LMP will submit amendments to this law, which we will obviously be able to discuss; at this point, we will certainly try to intervene. In the second case, it is the case that when another person becomes a competent person, which also serves as the basis for national security control. Again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is a little strange that the regulation does not take into account the fact that, immediately before the previous legal relationship, there was such a requirement or no such requirement. Now, if there's a valid safety opinion, there's no point in ordering another check on me. In the third case, I consider this to be eligible if the person subject to national security control asks for one of these. I think it's permissible without further ado. Everyone lets another person or institution into their privacy as much as you want. I don't know how lifelike this is, by the way, but I think that can't be denied, so let it be in the law, and I have no objection to that. However, it is difficult for me to interpret the fourth, because there are several situations here, so here in the fourth case. Ad absurdum I also think that it is possible for a government official or a civil servant, let's say, to drink coffee with a foreign citizen, and, say, to become friends, to report it, and that would allow national security control to begin. I think it's the 21st. Is that why you're in Europe now? Do you want me to put it this way? encountering aliens is not a matter of meeting foreign citizens. For this to automatically be a reason for national security control, I find this a little absurd. I do not know what the legislator's purpose was, but in any case, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as we read the bill, this can easily be understood in this way, which I think is problematic. However, I would also like to mention here that, in the other case, Secretary of State Tasnádi himself said that the aim is not to have a government official on suspicion of corruption, and it does not mean that, in principle, I think it should fit into this point, just to say that there is a government regulation behind it. There are two cases here. Let's just say if the government official who finds out that he's involved in corruption doesn't announce that this happened to him, then the review should happen, but the question is, let's say, where will the competent body get information about this fact. It is clear here that it cannot be regarded as an automaticism, because I do not see the obligation to notify in the text of the law, and, as I said, the government decree is also a loophole, because if it had not provided a loophole, then the announcement could have happened in this scandal. Or there is the other case: the government official announces that such a case has happened to him, and then the other side must be considered whether it will be reviewed or not reviewed. In any case, there was the transfer of information, but there is also a margin of discretion. So, I think this four-case scenario is quite problematic in its current form. We are trying to clarify this with amendments, on the one hand, in such a way that such abuses cannot occur and, on the other hand, to make it clear that if such a situation arises, then the obligation to notify should exist. I don't really have a problem with the fifth case, and I think it's necessary and a good direction. So what we're talking about here is that if information comes to the attention of the authorities in the underlying legal relationship of national security control, they will begin this review. I think that this is the right direction, and this is somewhat a return to regulation before 2013, so I can support this. As far as resolving the problem of external control is concerned, I think that the direction of the amendment is good, so it is good that the Ombudsman, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, can launch an own-initiative inquiry. It is also good that you can look into the documents, regardless of the restrictions, and I welcome, of course, that you can complain to the National Security Committee again, although I also add that the National Security Committee obviously has its limitations and tasks in this regard. All in all, I can say that there was this solution in 2013, which was completely unacceptable, and the Constitutional Court also said this by a convincing majority. This is now starting to be like a constitutional and European minimum fundamental rights regulation, but I think that if the amendments are accepted by you, which we are submitting, it can be said with a calm heart that this is a step forward from the previous state. I am still seeing a very exaggeration attempt in this to be in as wide a circle as possible and to be monitored in its process without any circumstances suggesting a specific security risk. I must continue to say that, on the other hand, we find it totally unacceptable that the masses of civil servants should be observed in the process, in secret, without any valid justification. We cannot support such a situation and see the risk of it in this legislative text, so we are trying to make it better by making amendments. I also have to tell you that it is obvious that, in particular, in the current context, which can be observed under Article XXI. in the century, when more and more inspections and records are being made for national security reasons? Is this where I think about the fight against terrorism, for example? I specifically ask the majority of governments to focus more on creating a regulatory environment in which the public and business sectors only process personal data that are essential for efficient operation, and people themselves can determine who they share information with. So I would like to ask for a measure of moderation on the part of the government, because it is obvious that there are processes at our age that require different controls. We all know what problems there are, but this cannot in any way create a legal basis for putting rubber rules on the table that can then be abused at the expense of individual citizens. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-24-292	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, With this, we have reached the end of the keynote speeches, so it would be possible to give a two-minute word to those who wish to speak, but as this is not the case, we will continue our work with further speeches from our representatives. I therefore give the floor to Member Gábor Staudt, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-293	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to begin the subject a little further in my speech, because in order to understand the processes that stand behind us and are to be solved before the Parliament, the past must be seen. Here, when I go back to the past, I'd go back to 2009, though I could go back much further. In 2009 did the Parliament accept it, together with the then MSZP government and the then Fidesz votes? the new law on classified information, and we told you then that the adoption of this law was probably due to fear that someone would not be newly admitted to the National Assembly, the new parties here? Better, LMP, and can you name it? Those who announced in their program that I would like to review the encryptions and change the system so far have basically access to information that violates the interests of the current set, the one that was registered for twenty years. [[20.30]] What am I thinking here? Like, do I think about that? And did my colleague Mirkóczki tell you that? That using secret services and secret service procedures for political purposes will lead to no good at all. This has been done by the various governments, the governments at hand, against their political opponents. And that's what the 2009 law made possible, because if a classified piece of information goes public, the authorities will only investigate a secret administrator's complaint. What does that mean? If this data comes out in such a way that it is in the interest of the government or the political circles associated with the government to avoid it, the secretster will not press charges; but if another person makes a complaint, nothing will happen. So anything can be made public, there won't be any procedure. However, if, let us say, someone from the opposition or from the press obtains such data and intentionally or with insufficient care discloses it, he may face the most serious punishment. And I could tell you this, but I don't want to go deeper into how the 2009 Act created the possibility of similar procedures. And that's when the events of 2010. Jobbik was included in the Parliament, and it happened that Jobbik's representatives could be considered a national security risk, that even the representatives of the MSZMP who later entered the so-called democratic parliament never had such a concern, so traitors, the dictatorship operators could always pass this investigation, but otherwise the reasons given to the betteries could be achieved to establish a national security risk. If that is the case, then the system is not good and it operates on a political basis, and something must be done about it and an objective set of criteria must be developed. Unfortunately, this has not been achieved since then. And now I'd like to tell you why this law isn't going to improve. Although, of course, the petitioners are trying to find a solution to the parts challenged and pulled out by the Constitutional Court, this is obviously based on the compulsion that the Constitutional Court destroyed these passages. These passes were, as has been said, an opportunity for an independent remedy from the government, so they expect the Parliament to create this, as well as concerns about the Constitutional Court and the ongoing control. And then let's see what the system is again? 'Cause I gotta say, it's gonna work again. I'd say we're functional. It is true that the National Security Committee of the National Assembly will be able to re-evaluate the complaints that the Minister has assessed, but the victim will continue to maintain that he has not found a remedy. So the National Security Committee of the National Assembly, as my fellow Member Mirkóczki said, is a political body, cannot be expected and is not regarded as an independent external body that, given the majority of the government in this committee, can exercise real control. And we don't have the expertise in this committee, as, let's say, in a court of law, taking into account the appropriate procedural and appropriate discretion and the appropriate capacity, because the committee is not able to get involved in these matters. By the way, we have seen this in the case of the better Members, in fact, formal decisions have been made, the committee said that if someone was said by the Constitutional Protection Office, it must be a national security risk. If you would like to bring this system back in the future, do not do so, because such formal, false procedures are not necessary in the law at all, nor does it satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision if you try to include it in this way. So experience has shown that this is certainly not an independent procedure. Moreover, it is quite cynical that earlier, in the 2013 amendment, even this was taken out, so they did not even want to provide this complaint. But as I have said, and my fellow Member Mirkóczki has also referred to it, is the judicial procedure justified, even the courts are the most independent bodies with sufficient expertise? even special designated courts? That's a job you could do. Of course, I understand that in this case, everyone would be subject to their decision, regardless of whether they are pro-government or opposition politicians, but that should not be feared if you really want to create a clear situation. What the proposal introduces or tries to set out to define its criteria, what constitutes a national security risk, is again false, because, on the one hand, it is full of rubber legislation that actually explains itself or which endangers the data to be protected, there is a circumstance. Well, thank you very much. You could figure that out without a description. However, the definition is that you are in contact with someone who, for the purpose of committing a deliberate crime threatened with imprisonment of five years or more, has been established by the court as a criminal liability, and I don't think that you have fully considered what that means. It means, for example, that in the case of a close relative, because the relationship can also apply, whether in the case of a child, a brother or a parent, we will accuse someone that his child has committed, let us say, a crime punishable by a criminal code of imprisonment of up to five years, and the court has determined his responsibility. It doesn't say what, it could be a liability on the part of the court, or, let's say, a community service or a fine, because it was that serious in court. What's there to think about? Whether it is a road threat or a drug possession, abuse of performance-enhancing agents or failure to provide assistance, it may also be a circumstance that could justify punishing a person who has committed such a crime or a member of his family. So I don't think that makes any sense. For example, did the press report that in 2013 the Constitutional Protection Office held a recruiter in the Faculty of Arts, and for example said that? I read that in the media? There, the staff of the Constitutional Protection Office told us that occasional use of alcohol and drugs can only be a problem if someone is hiding it. So it's okay for someone who can use easy drugs? Can we translate it? You can still submit your application to the Constitutional Protection Office, if he doesn't hide it, he may even be admitted. Now, in this case, you want to bring in the fact that if someone's child, let's say, had produced a wild hemp that wasn't known to them, and therefore failed and received a slight punishment, then he, who is not fully responsible for the crimes committed by his family member, could be considered a national security risk. So I find that terribly excessive. Isn't it necessarily a good thing we're giving that power? and open that power wide enough? that, in vain, national security risks are identified by the competent authorities in relation to someone, but the minister, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of Parliament, or even the Attorney General, if he thinks he can appoint his man; so let's say, the Attorney General, the prosecutor in relation to whom this has come up, and so he can override these decisions. Now, it would be much better to have a system in which we would rather appeal to a national security risk expert, say, a judicial remedy, but if the judicial remedy runs out and the court makes a decision, then it applies to everyone. So neither the Attorney General nor the President of the National Court of Justice nor, let's say, the Speaker of Parliament should be able to appoint that man after an independent court decision. If there's a legal remedy, it could be introduced into the law. What you're gonna do is you're gonna have someone who's gonna be very strict about it, and you're gonna be able to cross these laws with someone else. And that's not what we call legal certainty. I am pleased that it will be included that the risk factor must be proportionate and that the national security service should use the least restrictive instrument of the fundamental rights concerned in carrying out the verification. Although, who's gonna check that this happened, besides the complaints, because it's obviously a complaint? Like I said? lodging usually does not lead to such a result, it is a better question. We should also provide a detailed justification for the risk of national security, as we have seen it in two lines, whatever the justification may be. [[20.40]] It is also not clear that, in the event that the person is exposed to the fact that he or she says that he or she is a national security risk, and the law says that the classified information will not be covered by this information, well, in that case, what is classified data again? What they've classified. So if the whole or most of it is classified, then, in fact, the person again cannot know what the circumstances against him are. All you're going to find out is that there's been a risk, and the fact that this is exactly what it is, it's classified information, we can't tell you that. And in order to be open, accessible, public data from a classified data, it is practically very rare, in fact, that these data are buried forever. Also in the case of the review procedure? What I've already told you? Is there a problem? And did my colleague Mirkóczki tell you? How about foreign citizenship and foreign passport? Is that right, by the way? is it a risk and may result in a new procedure, then Members of Parliament or others? Jobbik in Parliament has submitted several billings? Why, in the case of supreme state leaders, this could not have been achieved. Here, too, the condition is that not only against the controlled person, but also with his close relative, it is enough to prosecute or even prosecute a criminal offence, so that he can actually be re-examined; this is quite broad. If another person, such as his child, or, say, his father or mother, is being prosecuted for a criminal offence, then the prosecution of the otherwise completely innocent person is again an exaggeration. I also say that this is beyond the guarantee of constitutionality, since no one can be obliged to take responsibility for his close relative, with whom he may not be in a good relationship, otherwise he may live in another part of the country. At the end? Because I'm at the end of the 15-minute window? I would like to say that, of course, we are pleased that it will be included in the questionnaire as to whether there is an alien expulsion, entry or residence ban against the filler or his close relative, and that the practical control of this will be another thing. This is some kind of reaction to the ban scandals at least then, but overall, I think that the proposed amendments decide whether we will support the proposal. I'm afraid? And the main issue here is the institution of judicial review? That's not gonna happen. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] find understanding ears at the government, and therefore we may not be able to support the proposal, but we are drafting our amendments. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, so I will conclude the general debate and ask the Secretary of State, Mr Kontra, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. Yes, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2014-11-24-295	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the lead speakers of the factions for their comments. Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh, for your support, and I trust that this support will also help us to adopt a good law on this very important issue. I would also like to thank Mr Zsolt Molnár, President of the Commission, for his contribution. He gave details of the beneficial and controversial parts of the proposal, and expressed his intention to submit amendments. In this regard, I would also like to say here and in relation to the other keynote speakers that we will consider all the amendments, and I would also like to state that the aim is to create the best possible law in Parliament together on this very important issue. I would also like to thank Mr Adam Mirkóczki for his contribution. He's not in the room right now, his... [[Ádám Mirkóczki reporting: I am here.]] I'm sorry.
u2014-11-24-296	You're sitting up here, Mr. Secretary. You're doing your notary's work.
u2014-11-24-297	Thank you very much for your attention. So I feel some contradiction, or I feel a significant contradiction between Mr Mirkóczki's comments from Member Adam and Mr Staudt Gábor. Mr Mirkóczki made certain amendments to the proposal, in which case he considered the proposal acceptable and eligible, while Mr Staudt Gábor [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's what I said.]] he had already anticipated that these amendments would not be supported and had already issued a judgment, res judicata, but we hope that he was wrong. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Convince me, Secretary of State.]] I'm working on it. I would also like to thank our fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, for his contribution. I would like to say that what the Congresswoman was talking about is the problem that is being addressed by the law. The amendment to the questionnaire is set out in the Annex, which contains point 2, which states whether it is subject to a foreign entry or residence ban, so this is clearly included in the proposal, but thank you for raising your awareness. When preparing this proposal, we have tried to take into account the broadest possible scope in order to bring the best possible regulation to this House as a proposal. With regard to what Mr Staudt Gábor said, I would like to say that after the operation of the Fidesz-KDNP government started on 19 May 2010 and the current office, the secret services still function legally. So your claim that it may be used for political purposes right now, I would like to reject that is without any basis, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your comments. I trust that the amendments tabled will also help us to adopt a good law. The proposal itself has already been prepared to remedy, on the one hand, the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Court in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, and, on the other hand, this bill fully complies with the security interests of Hungary. We trust that this general debate and the amendments to be tabled will now contribute to this very important objective. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your comments.
u2014-11-24-298	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Speaking after today's agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Mr Jobbik:.Another change of health structure: who will be the losers? It's an address. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-24-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I intend to address the issue referred to in the title as a starting point for a change of structure in the health sector that is expected to take place. I would like to point out that Jobbik has formulated and formulated its own position for the benefit of health workers. And what is the basis for a change of structure in this matter is easy to read, since there is already a new bill in this House, but there is no way to read about the change of structure from one place, because there is no basis for any number of budgets to determine that there will be any change in health care. Mostly, the slowly leaking articles or statements of State Secretary have shown and point to a major change in the health care system. [[20.50]] And if we are to find out from what articles the information was leaking, the biggest problem we can see is that these documents are not produced after a social debate and not after a prepared background work, and these ideas, but from the vague details of the Secretary of State who was usually told at a conference. So it is safe to ask whether there has been a social debate or where it is being prepared, or if we can safely place on Fidesz's account what communication they are having without having a social debate, because it is unfortunate to hear from newspapers or conference discussions about what changes are actually taking place in health care. And the historical thread in the transformation of health care seems to have been in the ruins for four years, even five years, when the Fidesz government came to power, saying that the health care system was in the ruins, and that it was definitely required to be transformed. And they have also begun to transform the supply system, as we know, into state-owned hospitals and other health institutions. But what we can really see behind it is that the change of structure that Fidesz started was still a faulty, flawed decision, and since 2006, it seems that the crisis has remained stable in health care. And what could be one of the foundations of the T/2123 bill, which, by the way, will come before the House more often, and I believe that there will be professional debates in this, is that this proposal will aim to operate professional care at county or regional level, which will be shown in one thing, that the previously designed GYEMSZI will practically pull down the blind, and the government will operate the system by setting up an ÁEK operator, which is also a mosaic. By the way, the Secretary of State has said and can be agreed on, and Jobbik agrees that the most important decisions must be taken at the local level, at the lowest levels. However, in this case, we might as well ask whether it would not be more worthwhile to bring back the decision on health care that was in the hands of the municipalities in the past, because it was possible to see that while the local authorities had the institutions to maintain it, debt stocks had not taken hold, unlike now, when the debt to each hospital is about HUF 80-100 billion, which is absolutely necessary to spend the money on. What's worse, and perhaps the most unfair, is that there's a negotiation between hospitals, who's going to do what kind of care, and who's going to be able to do what. Basically, this is a well-known process for employees, because before Fidesz, they could practice at MSZP what they had to bargain on and feel a little like they're in one of those games? Maybe everyone in camp has seen this before? What is a seat-booking game is that there will always be one chair less, fewer chairs can be occupied, and more important links will continue to fall out. The only problem is that it's not a game, it's the wages, work and future of 200,000 health workers, and the government is playing with 9 million insured people in these cases. And how can the problem be solved and dealt with? This is money, because without money, the restructuring will not work either. Let's start with the debt ratio, but we can also talk about the career model, which would require 25 billion in the start-up process alone, or we would need more than 10 billion forints of general medical and basic care. Thus, questions may arise as to why the transformation is important now, why it needs to be redesigned and whether it would not be possible to return to the municipal reserve and how prepared or thought-out this model is. I think that we will get answers to these questions very quickly in the near future, but I see that the government is sorry for the money for health care, which is why it forces us to redesign again, and we feel like a means of transport in a particular car, when we are late and we are lost, it still says that we are redesigning and redesigning. This needs to be changed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-300	Thank you. I will now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, MEP Jobbik, who will eliminate himself, or say his comment on the 6th title of the population disaster in Somogy County. Here you go.
u2014-11-24-301	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech after the agenda I spoke last week caused a little unfortunate misunderstanding, so I would like to play it with a thought: do you have a right, say, from the Socialist Group, to do so, to my fellow Member, Teleki, in order not to settle for the combined county figures when you want to find out, for example, the real unemployment rate among the Roma in Zala County. We say that, yes, he has a right to do so, and therefore, when he says that he cannot do anything about the data relating to the whole population, he is quite right. We're doing the same thing, we're better off with demographic trends. We must say that the statistical data must be split into two, because the data on Hungarians and Gypsies show a radically different picture, and if we want to draw an overall, general picture on one or another group, it will certainly lead us to a false picture. Since it is well-known that there are all kinds of extremists far from Jobbik, we must reject the accusations of all kinds of racism, which is why we only want to be aware of the demographic trends of Hungary, which, by the way, is politically correct, but we have to say that we have an indisputable right. So in this spirit, let us continue to examine the demographic processes of the largest and rarest-inhabited county in South Transdanubia, Somogyország! According to the 2011 census, 316,000 people in Somogy were found with little more than 44,000 children, and are we seeing that? if we accept the results of the sociological studies of István Kemény? that if 37 percent of the Roma population among Gypsies are children, it is likely that a Roma population of 55,000 people will receive about 20,000 children of Gypsy origin out of the total number of 44,000 children. This represents 40% of all people under the age of 14 in our county. On the other hand, the figures show that among non-Gypsies, we are faced with the image of a horrificly aged society, where only 24,000 out of 260 thousand, or less than 9 percent, are children. [[21.00]] Let's continue the calculation we just discussed for the village population of about 150,000 people. According to the 2011 census, 22 909 childhood trips were recorded in the municipalities of Somogy County, so the proportion of children under the age of 14 is 15%. We know that about 40,000 of the village population are gypsies of origin, and of which, once again, following the logic of the sociologist István Kemény, it must be about 37 percent, or 14,800 children. This means that the number of non-Gypsy Hungarian children in the village of Somogyország is now barely reaching 8100, which is only 35 percent of the total number of children in Somogyország, compared to 65% of the Roma youth. We can also translate this by saying that only 7.4 percent of a rural Hungarian population of 110,000 belong to the age group of people under 14 years of age, demonstrating tragically the collapse of the demographic potential of Hungarians here. It can therefore be said that in Somogy, the majority of rural Hungarian communities, which are also distorted in their demographic and social composition, lack the human capacity that is absolutely necessary to improve the catastrophic population situation. By setting up simple mathematical proportions, it becomes apparent that in the statistical small region where the proportion of the Roma population reaches 20 per cent of the population in each region, their proportion may be around 50 per cent for the age groups under the age of 14, where their number reaches almost one third of the total population, where they may already have a two-thirds share among children. These things need to be discussed unmistakably, but obviously within the framework of humanity, and this is what Jobbik is trying to do. But what other problems may arise in relation to demographic developments, let me quote the words of the former strategic Prime Minister's Advisor László Bogár. He said: "If we add that there is not only quantity but also quality of population, then we expose ourselves to the stigma of racism, but also to what has always been natural for all human communities. The material, physical and spiritual, moral and spiritual demise forces the increasing proportion of births into the world of the most miserable and history-traveled slot pariahs. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-24-302	Thank you very much, too. Honourable Congressman, My memory's good, my hearing's fine, the president's chair, he can't take part in the political debate, so all I can say is that I understand what you're saying. Demography as a means of science, I can't argue about this place. In any case, with today's last speech after the agenda, we have reached the end of our meeting today. Dear Parliament, I thank you for your work, and we will resume the Parliament meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day is now closed. Thank you very much. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 9:1 p.m.]]
