u2014-11-03-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the voters' community.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda today. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let's play a little game if you don't already have a special tax on this one. Guess who I'm gonna quote now. Let me help you out. It's a secretary of state. But who exactly and when did he say that? I quote: If this continues as we are at the moment in the field of Internet services, Hungary will face a serious competitive disadvantage. Romanian mountain shepherds use the Internet cheaper than we do here, and, by the way, in some places, Internet access is already greater than in many parts of the country. It's been a problem for many years. In France, Germany, Austria, income conditions are much higher than we do, and in fact, broadband access is cheaper. It will cause a serious competitive disadvantage if we do not change this area. We also ask the Minister and recommend that the government intervene with effective means in the market process, and that we do need to make it much cheaper to access the Internet and reach much wider layers and overcome the competitive disadvantage that is already felt. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, That's what L. Simon László, the current Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office said. He said that a few months ago in the author's lockdown of the advertising tax, in response to a better demand to introduce the free internet and to reduce internet charges. Now imagine, if L. Simon László is telling me the truth at this level, then at what level we may be right on this issue. Indeed, it is a very competitive disadvantage for our country that the Internet is very expensive in comparison with the neighbouring countries. Here at the National Assembly, according to the last NMHH report we discussed? So, according to the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's report? In Hungary, the median access rate is EUR 54, the sixth highest in the EU, more than twice the median price of the old Western Member States. In fact, when you look at income relations, it's even worse. For example, in Denmark, the Internet usage fee in Hungary is more than 2,200 percent more expensive than the income conditions there. That's right. The continuation of the reduction could normally be a reduction in internet access charges and, in parallel, the introduction of a free basic internet, but the government announcement that broadband will be everywhere by 2018 is extremely misleading. That's the news coming from public service media, and they don't add that there's basically only broadband internet where they can pay for it. But with such internet prices, although technically available, it is not in fact affordable for Hungarian people. By the way, according to the NMHH's previously mentioned report, the third lowest share of broadband mobile internet users in the European Union is regularly, i.e. at least monthly. There is, therefore, a lot of work to be done in this area, but not only technical improvements, but also a reduction in fees. Out of the revenue of the advertising tax, of which 8-10 billion forints a year, free basic internet could be achieved, and it is realistic for the government to learn this idea, since the advertising tax that mainly hit multi-company companies was Jobbik's idea in 2010, although it was still voted out here in plenary, but it was accepted later. Now they just need to learn what we're asking them to do to make the net free of charge. In addition, our proposal for an amendment to the tax laws is now before the Parliament. We see, however, that you are afraid. Government parties are afraid of the Internet because they can't grind it, they can't limit it the way they do with the media law made up of rubber paragraphs. They are unable to implement the Chinese type of Internet censorship at present, so they are trying to make the Internet impossible. However, allow me to draw attention to some of the advantages, only in terms of terms. The free internet would boost teleworking, televising. This could also reduce car traffic, for example, so that the congestion charge should not be on the agenda here in Parliament within a few months, but that car traffic could be reduced by other means. That's right. We would also like to set a good example with the introduction of freenet at national level. Therefore, the better local authorities launched a movement of Internet-friendly settlements. Free WiFi access is provided in the main square of their settlement, which can be built from a single few hundred thousand forints. It fills the settlements with life, and therefore on the introduction roads of the settlements [[Mirkóczki Ádám Novák Elõk gives him a sign. The sign is placed in front of you by the President Novak, with the inscription: "Internet-friendly settlement"? Free Wi-Fi. ? There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? John Lazarus intervenes.]] In addition to the city name signs, we also post this positive message in a standard form agreed with the road manager, thus launching the Internet-friendly settlements movement. We ask you to note that the world is moving towards the free internet, so please join the movement of better local authorities providing free WiFi access, join the Internet-friendly settlements movement. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, on behalf of the government, who would like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, on behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to answer. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-3	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At first, perhaps, if you'll allow me, about the timeline. I'm very glad you've announced this movement. I would like to inform you that this has been achieved in a number of settlements that have so far been under fidesz control, and that people are using it. If this is done in the settlements you manage, I think we can all be happy; people in those settlements also have access to these services. The other thing I would like to do when answering your comments before the agenda is to address in a prerogative, and that is, I think, a difference in thinking. You are talking about the possibilities of using an existing system, its availability, myself, and I trust that the government is much more practical: first you have to do something and then you can use it. So I'm asking you not to talk about when and how we want to make the high speed broadband network, please don't underestimate it, because to do it, you have to create a system to use it, and then you can polemize it on it? if there's a basis for that? What it costs and how it can access and who can access it. [[13.10]] Is the government committed to that, by the way? And you made it an excuse to say that it's all over the place? Yes, we are trying to inform the population of this country as widely as possible that we are committed to ensuring that high speed broadband networks are available to all citizens and businesses. You are absolutely right, but I repeat, this must be done first, so that this will allow us to manage and simplify a lot of our daily business from the home administration of citizens to the day-to-day relationship of businesses. We want to achieve this, as you said, by 2018, two years ahead of the European target, as the European Union plans to achieve this by 2020. If this development is implemented, Hungary can be the first or very first EU country where citizens can handle their affairs using the most modern technology, not to mention that the state can save significant amounts. The government's plan to create free Wi-Fi networks with open access at all i-Hungary points and other Community internet access points is also a good opportunity, which also provides access for disadvantaged citizens. As you may know before you, I am sure you know that the government has launched a catching-up program called the digital community, where Miskolc has provided more than 14,000 digital devices and internet subscriptions to the winning citizens. The success of the application proves that it is worth launching programmes of this kind, so the government decided to extend it, indicating new locations. Encouraging the use of the Internet is not only a government task, it is a serious responsibility for all stakeholders. Therefore, there is a lively and continuous dialogue between the government and market players in order to ensure that as many people as possible use the Internet world. Honourable Congressman, We are convinced that the Internet not only strengthens competitiveness, but also makes a significant contribution to the growth of individual quality of life. Without the Internet? And we agree on that? now there is no job creation, no innovation, no administration, no economic expansion. In this spirit, the government invests in the future, and that is why it wants to provide access to the Internet for all citizens, even through free Wi-Fi points. Thank you for your concern, and Mr President for your patience. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, LMP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-03-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, In recent weeks, we have been through the biggest series of demonstrations in this cycle, thanks to a stupid tax plan, thanks to the fact that, while most of the country is already seeing that a tax plan is stupid, the government secretary of state is proud to defend the indefensible even in the debate on tax laws. If they think that the three won this year's elections, the second won two-thirds means they can do anything in this country, they're wrong. This is the message of a series of protests over the past few weeks. Can we say that Hungary is not a country without consequences? Although this statement would be complete if, after last Tuesday's tax law debate, Mr Tállai State Secretary submitted his resignation. [[Delight and murmur from the pro-government benches. ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you satisfied with one? ? Turning to András Tállai, János Lázár, I told you this would happen!]] And, of course, the tens of thousands who had the courage, went out and refused to allow themselves to stand up to the self of power must be thanked. The Prime Minister replied on Friday to the series of protests by launching a national consultation. The national consultation has taken place in recent weeks. If you're thinking, like the summer of 2012, a huge one-billion-dollar budget has to be respent to your friends, then speak freely! In the summer of 2012, the national consultation cost taxpayers HUF 1.2 billion. That's 500 teachers' wages a year and about 200 ambulances. This is nothing more than a payoff for your friends. There's no shame in admitting that you've faced people and you have to back down. Dear Parliament, During the demonstrations, in Budapest and in the countryside, it was constantly said that people do not want to pay taxes so that their tax dollars are simply stolen by others. Last November, when we brought the NAV scandal into Parliament and talked about a report that has processed the operation of the NAV since 2007 and that since the Gyurcsány government, since 2007, thousands of billions have migrated from this country due to chained VAT fraud, then you and the Minister of National Economy have said that everything has been checked and everything has been found in order and nothing to see here. This report has been wanted by the LMP for a year. We just received a verdict: within 15 days, we have to show the country what this weekend report was. For a long time, people in this country have had the feeling that the tax authorities are chasing the little ones, harassing small businesses, and letting the big ones run. That is why it is important for the government, the Prime Minister, to make a clear statement about the ban scandal: is the head of the tax administration among those affected? I would like to say that the Legal Status Act, the Law on the Status of State Secretarys, the National Security Act and the Government Officials Act give government leaders clear means to stop hiding and come up with the bullshit: has the head of the authority travelling to people's tax forints been announced, or not? [[13.20]] Dear Parliament, The budget was submitted last week, and Hungarian taxpayers saw that the tax burden of the cafeteria increased from 35% to 51 percent. This means that it is more difficult for people to obtain local rent, Elisabeth's voucher, school start-up support, and work catering. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This is once again a measure that affects low-income people. After the last few weeks, don't trust that people will tolerate this without saying a word. There was also a rumor last week that the number of high school seats would be reduced by 50 percent, and that next year's budget would make foundation schools completely impossible. Meanwhile, the amount of vocational and adult training grants is reduced from HUF 53 billion to HUF 30 billion. Do not think that those in this country who want knowledge, good quality knowledge, whether professional workers, graduates or family members who want to educate their children want to be educated will tolerate it indefinitely! People don't let a corrupt tax authority pick up the tax forints they make with their sweat, steal it, or spend it on show. That is the lesson of the series of protests over the past few weeks. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to point out that the issue of extending the telecommunications tax is closed. There was a government goal that was submitted to Parliament with tax laws, which clearly aimed at extending the tax on telephone services and SMS services to those who use the same service online. This is not how society understood it, but understood it as a tax on the entire Internet, and the government and Prime Minister have decided that this tax cannot be introduced. This technical process will take place at the government's initiative at this week's committee meeting, so this part will be removed from the bill, and we will have nothing to say about this matter from now on, Mr Group Leader. Very interestingly, he mentioned several events in his speech. He brought up the case of the banning scandal again. I can't tell you much about that either. What I can tell you is what the US agent said, who today represents the United States as essentially an ambassador in Hungary, that this is a private matter for the United States and for the individual, and that the government has nothing to do with this. And if the United States of America sees that it has something to do, it will find the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Government will launch investigations if necessary. This initiative did not take place, so from now on this matter is neither a government nor a political matter. Honourable Congressman, The third deposit of his speech was the budget itself. And what I can tell you is that the debate on the budget law begins on 17 November, I believe, for several days. So we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss some of the questions you have raised. Thank you very much for your speech before the agenda. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-8	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP:. Free Sunday. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-03-9	Mr President, Dear House, I would not be standing here on the question of free Sunday if there were a credible and effective social democratic party in Hungary, as this question is usually raised by the left-wing people. It's about the protection of workers. Of course, it is also okay for a social democratic party to have a national commitment and to get rid of the representation of the financial world and liberal dogmas. [[Nándor Gúr: Dismissions!]] Believe me, everyone who thinks responsibly in Hungary today has an interest in having united, well-functioning, credible parties on the left. It is not a long - term pleasure for us to have the side in this condition that has tasks. [[Zoltán Lukács: We got as many votes as you did! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Why do we have to talk about this? Because we find that the trade chains in which the workers are exploited are only in their own interests, in the interest of extra profit, employing their employees at low wages and over-employment. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about community service?]] What is the purpose of this draft law, which we are resubmitting, and which we hope Parliament will accept? In a sentence, it can be said that we want a common day of rest for family members. Therefore, it may not hurt to present this proposal to a Christian social party and not to be a social democrat, because in a specific approach it looks at the interests of workers from the point of view of families. We have had long discussions on this draft, also with trade unions, left-wing trade unions, civil society and employers. There are three actors in this story: employers are one, employees are the other, and we should not miss out on customers. It is a consequence of the law, if it is implemented, to reduce the competitive disadvantage of retailers. How is the protection of families and the interests of customers achieved? Our original proposal? Do many of you remember that we filed it three years ago? It was about the importance of a common day of rest not only in trade but also in every workplace. This initiative is now limited to trade. What's the point? In stores where there are employees, the day off should be observed. Plus, it could be open in shops below 400 square meters, so the above ones are subject to this lock-in regulation. It should be noted here that trade unions believe that there is a shortage of labour and overemployment in these large shopping malls and supermarkets. How is free shopping possible? Because it's a value. There are exceptions. For example, family businesses are exceptions, since those who work as owners or family members in the business are not forced to do so, their business can be opened voluntarily. Besides small shops, of course, representatives of the services also keep their shops open; for example, in tourism services, gas stations, florists, bakery shops, railway stations, and the rest will be open naturally. And there's something else I'd like to mention. To assess individual applications, the draft law decides to set up a committee, which then takes an opinion and a decision according to the needs. I have to mention that there are also European examples of what we want to introduce. It is true that despite the renewable attack by profit-hungry companies, they could survive, proving that this is a viable thing and that they are the property of healthy social conditions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, We are talking about a proposal in which the government has not yet made a decision, but there is indeed a preparation for such a proposal, and the government will decide in the coming days, in the coming weeks, how and how it supports this proposal. However, it is a proposal that is not merely a question of the KDNP, since half of the Member States of the European Union have such legislation. So, in many respects, the direction you have taken is similar in other EU countries, and it is, of course, completely identical with EU law. [[13.30]] Hungary's Fundamental Law also seeks to ensure the constitutional right of all workers to rest, leisure and regular paid leave. The application of this right may be the proposal you have put forward. In the event that this joint paid rest day in this sector is also paid for for everyone who works in such larger shops and shops, on Sunday, it is also the enforcement of this law for the State, to check whether it is provided to all workers and to ensure it in an appropriate proportion, to make it easier for the State. Also, as I said, there are similar proposals in many European Union countries, and KDNP not only made use of it three years ago, but supported this proposal at the time by the National Association of Hungarian Trade Unions, the National Association of Workers' Councils, the Trade Employees' Trade Union, the Round Table of the Hungarian Social Forum, the Independent Trade Workers' Union. So the organisations that represent the workers in this sector, who would also be mentioned in the proposal referred to by Mr Group leader, were in favour of this, and not the arguments that the owners of these large chains generally say are losing jobs. They were raised, because they believe, as Mr. Group leader said, that they are working these people in a working order and for a salary which, in addition to the mandatory closing on Sunday, would not result in dismissals for large shops. But not only do Hungarian trade unions have such opinions. Italian trade unions also said that this opening hours would not create new jobs, but would burden existing workers with new tours and force them to give up their rest in the name of excessive flexibility. This was said not in Hungary and not by Hungarian experts, but by Italian experts about this system, so that the large trade chains, the large shopping malls, could be opened for 6 or 7 days. Many see this as a result of the aggressive expansion of large, often foreign-owned companies, the social achievement of Sunday's day off, which, by the way, had previously been achieved by trade unions for workers even centuries earlier. There is a kind of competition between the various large store networks in which they are trying to gain advantage, and the other only reason they are willing to do so is because they do not want to fall behind one of them in the competition fight. But those who decide on these Sunday opening hours as CEOs will not work on Sundays, but those workers who are somewhat put in this position and who do not dare to take the risk of not taking the Sunday tour because they fear that they will lose their job on the other days. Another important aspect for the government is that more than three quarters of trade workers are women. So women are more affected by this Sunday work than by men, they are more distracted from their rest periods, they are taken away from their children, and they are taken away from their families. So this situation, which may not have been the case 15 years ago, has become somewhat common with the spread of large hypermarkets and shopping malls, which has hit women three times more than men in Hungary. We also need to take this into account. As I said to Mr Group leader, the Government has not yet made a decision on this, but it is preparing to decide soon, after proper preparation, on the support or rejection of this proposal, and then, I trust, we can continue this discussion here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, from the MSZP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The ostrich and the concrete? Mr Zoltán Lukács spoke before the agenda on this title last week. He was trying to draw your attention to the fact that if you are pursuing the same ostrich policy as you have for five years on every sensitive matter, you will certainly notice that you are not burying your head in the sand, but smashing it into the concrete wall of the people's will. And I did. Ladies and gentlemen, What you and the representatives of the government have said last week on the subject of Internet taxation and corruption is pathetic, ridiculous and deeply saddening. For days you have defended the need to introduce an Internet tax and have been silent on corruption charges against you for weeks. And the people have sent you a clear message: so far and no longer. Tens of thousands walked the streets peacefully, but with greater strength they stood up for their valuables. And make no mistake, these values were not about 700 forints. Older people and young people, workers and CEOs stood together for freedom embodied by the Internet, free expression and European values, wishing all state corruption to hell. After decades, Kossuth Square was filled again, and ten thousand people cried out as one that the EU flag should be in the Hungarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, After Prime Minister Viktor Orbán had rested in Switzerland, he decided to do so on Friday morning and turned back on the Internet tax case. It informed the public that the Internet tax could not be introduced in its present form and that national consultations should be held on this matter. He made the situation worse by appointing Tamás Deutsch, his old fellow warrior, one of the fidesz moral standards of our time to conduct this pseudo-consultation. Dear Parliament, If you think the question is settled, you're wrong. Once again, we warn you, if you deceive people again, you may face even greater protest. There are many lawyers here who understand exactly the words of Viktor Orbán. Won't it be introduced in this form? He told me. So in a different form, yes; and then national consultations will be puppeted, where, based on the letters sent back by a few hundred thousand Fidesz supporters, you will begin again to restrict the Internet by referring to the will of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, Please don't take this path. Don't try to fool people, don't make them angry even more. And let Tamás Deutsch first account for the fate and price of the stadium entrance gates purchased under his ministry, and then he will be entrusted with such serious public tasks. The solution, if your Prime Minister has been honest, lies here on the table of Parliament. Today we submitted a political statement and the sixth amendment of the Fundamental Law, so that the Hungarian Parliament can give an irrevocable guarantee to the Prime Minister's announcement. The political declaration, which can be adopted by the House by a two-thirds majority, bears the title of the exclusion of the restriction on the introduction of a new public burden of expressing an opinion, and gives a clear guarantee that this Parliament will not support any laws contrary to this in the future, if, of course, you will vote in favour of it. The amendment of the Fundamental Law provides a solution to the legitimate expectations of civilians and all Hungarians to interfere in policy-making on the most important issues affecting them, if you like, without protests and strikes. We propose that instead of costly and uncontrollable pseudoconsultations, they give back the people's right to the referendum. For you, who have reached a two-thirds majority in Parliament with 25-30 percent of the voters, there is no moral and political basis for this to double the validity of a referendum. Dear Parliament, It's time! It's time to clear up the corruption charges. It is time to express their clear intention to protect the Internet and, through it, freedom of expression and information. And now it's time to give the people back their say in life. Believe me, if you don't do this, people will force you. It is time, my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP. Take your chances before it's too late. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-03-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2014-11-03-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, It is well felt that opposition parties have settled in, especially the MSZP, that their political attack on the expansion of the telecommunications tax will go on indefinitely. You can see that there is some confusion with the opposition parties, because as of Friday morning, we know that there will be no telecommunications tax expansion, as you say, there will be no Internet tax. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is not the one who does not keep his word, but, if I may, I will give you two examples of the Prime Minister who has not kept his word until now. For example, your Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány promised in the 2006 elections if you remember the campaign that there will be a tax reduction in Hungary. Instead, what happened? [[There's a lot of noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Instead, what happened? There have been tax increases. For example, you raised your basic food tax from 12 percent to 25 percent. Then who didn't keep his word? [[13.40]] But the same was promised earlier by Péter Medgyessy, also MSZP Prime Minister [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The one who said that the housing loan, the housing support system that Fidesz introduced, was good. [[A voice from the benches of MSZP: A million jobs!]] Instead, what happened? Instead, preferential housing loans were abolished [[How many apartments did you buy?]] and people were forced to borrow foreign currency [[How many apartments did you buy?]] And they owed over a million families. But there is also a third example when they said that the family tax relief scheme would be maintained and that, in essence, it was abolished in 2006. It's just three small examples of who, during your eight-year-old government, didn't keep his word. As far as the corruption charges are concerned. Honourable Congressman, It would be nice if you could say these things together with evidence, because for the time being, it's a weak little opposition accusation. I'll give you an example. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] Parliament's debate on tax laws has begun, and the MSZP lead speaker, Sándor Burány, said what a thing it is that the tax on honey brandy is reduced, and immediately accused the invisible member of the government that, through the lobby of one of the government members, the honey brandy is taxed with reduced taxes, and that this is corruption. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Otherwise, what is the reason?]] Even in tax laws, government corruption appears! Instead, what happened was: did Sándor Burány MSZP politician overlook the tax law? Or didn't you read it? 'Cause he mixed the honey brandy with the honey cookie. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] 'Cause really, honey cookies, if the sugar is replaced by honey, it's 20% [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] , the preferential tax is paid for this product and therefore a reduced rate of potato tax is paid for this product. The only reason I gave you this example is that it was immediately found out that the MSZP politician was lying and was threatening a member of the government with a baseless corruption charge. He even said, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Shame on you after last week!]] So much for the corruption charges against the opposition, because Sándor Burány immediately failed because there was evidence that he was lying. [[Defiance and intervention from the benches of MSZP: Has the NAV leader come home yet?]] And you're about to fail. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] Because his corruption charges are baseless and untrue. [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of opposition parties. ? Zoltán Lukács: Has Ildikó come home yet? Where's Ildikó sunbathing? ? Zoltán Grimlock: What about the lands? ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, I suggest you take care of yourselves. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the lands of Borsodi?]] I heard on the radio the other day from your party president that in three and a half years they want a party that people accept and support. I wish you all would rather go this way. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's what we're doing. ? Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-03-16	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, Head of Group, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-11-03-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2015 budget will begin in the committees of the Hungarian Parliament next week. The 2015 budget will be a budget for the accountability of banks. It is also worth saying this because the most important issue in a budget is always what keeps more money than people. In 2015, the vast majority of Hungarian families, more than one million Hungarian families, have more money, because as a result of the accounting of the banks, interest and repayments of both foreign exchange creditors and forint-crediters will be reduced. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] In the case of foreign exchange lenders, this rate can be up to 25-30 percent of the monthly instalment, and in the case of forint-crediters it will also be well over 10 percent of the monthly instalment. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, it is safe to say that in the following year, from 2015 in Hungarian families, Hungarian families with foreign exchange loans will be reduced by 25-30 percent between February and April, i.e. between February and April, the situation will occur that an average Hungarian foreign exchange loan family can save 20,000 HUF per month as a result of bank settlement. In 2015, as a result of bank settlement, sometime between September and November 2015, the interest and interest payments of the forint-crediters will also be reduced, so as a result we can say that between September and November 2015 an average Hungarian forint-credited family will pay 10 thousand forints less, and interest per month, which means that it will save so much of the monthly income that is currently at its disposal. This also means, ladies and gentlemen, that much of the Hungarian families will be able to benefit more easily and to a greater extent from tax incentives for families for children. Will the population of those who were able to live more widely in 2014 be expanded? For example, small-income families? with the extended family tax reduction, these will also be extended because in the following year, as a result of bank accountability, more money will remain with Hungarian families, so they will be able to enforce a greater tax relief overall. We can also say, ladies and gentlemen, that the next year is also a budget for wage increases. Will the government continue in 2015? And this budget has its cover? the teacher's career program, which means that an average educator can expect a 10% wage increase from September 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, The year 2015 will also be the year of wage increases for law enforcement workers. In 2015 are law enforcement workers thanks to the beginning of the career program? the Hungarian police and the Hungarian soldiers? They can calculate 25-30 percent higher salary from July 2015. It's also a program we've been planning for years. Now is the time for the Hungarian economy to generate the resources needed to do so and to finally start settling the salaries of law enforcement workers, policemen and soldiers, and increasing their financial appreciation. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, we can say that in 2015, my opposition fellow Members look for the items in the budget that reduce the income of Hungarian families in vain. Family tax incentives are expected to increase in 2015, even the first married ones in 2015? First? They'll get a discount. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] The 2015 budget will be announced in advance from 2016 in addition to the further expansion of the family tax reduction, a home-building programme will be launched, wage increases will be made, banks will be accounted for. As a result, it can therefore be said that in 2015 the Hungarian Government will be able to achieve its goal by increasing wages, increasing tax incentives and, moreover, improving the performance of the economy, that, ladies and gentlemen, this does not require an increase in the budget deficit. In 2015 the Hungarian government is able to keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent, but below 2.5 per cent, in addition to wage increases and increasing tax incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why we can say that 2015 will be the first year of growing Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]]
u2014-11-03-18	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister János Lázár wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2014-11-03-19	Thank you very much, Mr President, but on account of the misunderstanding, I would nevertheless suggest that you answer the question, Mr President. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó, Zoltán Lukács: One more chance! One more chance.]] It was probably the wrong move. Thank you very much. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Who knows how to do it?]] How do you suppose I'm doing?
u2014-11-03-20	Thank you, Minister. In any case, since there was no indication of who would give me an answer, I've been watching the Minister's microphone. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-11-03-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] Dear Chief of Staff, Congressman! Indeed, Parliament has a very important task ahead of it, since the two most important laws of the year, the tax laws, which base the revenue side of the 2015 budget, and then we will adopt the budget law. Before all this, I would like to say that there is an interesting political situation, because this is the second time since the change of regime that the same government has been able to carry on its work in essence, at least with the same two-thirds majority in Parliament. [[13.50]] If we remember, the Socialists in 2006 for the first time? Do you want us to remember? big promises in the campaign, and after they won the election, they carried out the exact opposite of what they promised in the campaign. It has already been said that instead of tax reductions, for example, a tax increase has been made. [[Zoltán Lukács: This is the previous paper. ? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The Fidesz government has been given the historic opportunity, and the first government to continue, who will do what he has promised to the people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He didn't promise anything. ? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] He promised people to continue their work. It will continue in the area of taxation, continue to reduce income tax and thus provide people with more income. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Folk Dog, Trafik Dog.]] This is reflected in the tax law of 2015 and in the fiscal law of 2015. It is very important to continue with the reduction of the rent [[Dr. András Schiffer intervenes.]] Even though some analysts, opposition politicians say that the impact of the reduction of the rent is now over, that is not true. After all, people will get as much discount in 2015 as they did in 2014 or more, because if, let's say, the socialists were to govern, then instead of increasing the fees, we will now face substantially stagnating fees. So what was saved by a family in 2014 will not be issued for overhead costs in 2015. The third one? that was emphasized by the Rogan faction leader? the question of foreign exchange lenders, where about HUF 1000 billion will be returned to people in the shorter, longer term. I believe that if we add together the government's family policy, the government's tax policy and these two historic measures, the reduction of the rent and the question of foreign exchange creditors, we think that we will establish the long-term well-being of families, their longer-term growth and their enrichment. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the 2015 budget will obviously start afterwards. In addition to ensuring a better family existence, the 2015 budget will also be a very important injection into the economy. After all, the emergence of EU funds and the pumping of more than 60 percent of EU funds into the economy will mean that jobs will be maintained, jobs will be created and employment will continue to grow, and economic growth is planned to be 2.5 percent or higher, which will mean that growth will benefit not only farmers, employers, but also workers. This will be coupled with a low personal income tax key, because our plans will be one-key with a personal income tax and a growing family support system, then it will be clearly the result of a converging and consistent economic policy that the lives of families will be better every day, and more will come to their growth and to improve their living conditions. Dear Parliament, Next year's tax law and next year's budget will ensure this for Hungary, Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-22	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Szávay István, Jobbik; Kiss László, MSZP; Kepli Lajos, Jobbik; Sallai Róbert Benedek, LMP; Ikotity István, LMP; Bodó Sándor, Fidesz; Demeter Márta, MSZP; Z. Kárpát Dániel, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 30 October Mr Tibor Navracsics informed the President of the Parliament that he had resigned from his seat as a member of the European Commission. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish you a successful work and success in your new mandate. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. Dear Parliament! I declare that Congressman Flórian Farkas informed me that on 31 October the conflict of interest had been removed and that he could continue to exercise his rights. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Committee has made a proposal to derogate from house rules. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain this.
u2014-11-03-23	The Parliament shall, in its request for a decision of the committees negotiating the reports referred to in the proposal of the House Committee on 30 October 2014, derogate from the House Rules of Procedure provisions in such a way as to decide by a single vote on the request of the committees negotiating the above reports to take a decision; by the fact that, within one hour of the decision to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure of the Decision, the head of any political group or at least five independent Members may request in writing that Parliament decide, in the case of no more than two reports, on the request of the committee negotiating the report to take a decision.
u2014-11-03-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the Rules, the four-fifths of the Members present must have a vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the Rules of the House. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation from the Rules by 150 votes to four, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now 13:57 a.m., an hour for all those who wish to put forward a separate vote. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 1:58 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2014-11-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Nothing seems to be enough for the government. It is not enough to serve its own oligarchs, the Ripper Lőrincek, it is not enough to destroy the Hortobágy livestock farmers and to destroy an internationally renowned bioeconomy for state corruption. Here the government and Fidesz don't stop, now they want the little one. It is well known that, in the absence of local land committees, county agricultural chambers decide from Zahony to Zalaegerszeg whether to exercise their veto rights in their counties during the purchase of land. There is no appeal or appeal against their decisions as a result of the government in Orbán. At the same time, it is shocking and outrageous that agricultural camaraderie, which is made up of independent, yet fidesz politicians, abuses trust and serves the circle of friends. Their decisions can no longer be classified, especially in cases such as the case of zirci, in which a family farmer of 100 hectares wanted to purchase the adjacent and advertised 1 hectare of land. He thought it was enough to exercise his pre-emptive right. It wasn't enough because it didn't count that a family with fidesz, in which both the husband and the wife, although a member of the Agriculture Committee, checked into the same land. Thus, the county agricultural chamber refused to purchase a simple and non-Fidesz family farmer on the grounds of stockpiling. [[14.00]] In view of the fact that it is not an individual case, since in the constituency of the other State Secretary of the FM, during the Island, a small pensioner was rejected for the same reason, it appears that the corrupt Fidesz state has created the possibility of legalizing the service of friends. They may have acted legitimately, but immorally. For this reason, I ask what kind of accumulation is it that someone wants to buy another hectare of land for the existing 100 hectares. How can you consider it a accumulation if a small pensioner wants to buy another half a hectare for the existing 0.9 hectares? Do you not find this legislation immoral, Mr. Secretary, and do you not feel that a law is being abused just to help friends? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-11-03-26	Thank you. State Secretary Bitay Márton Örs responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-27	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I had a feeling he was trying to do a lot of things in these three minutes. [[Zoltán Pride: Two things!]] And they're a little confused either by the program for the farmers or by the rules of the land law. [[Zoltán Lukács: Sometimes two things are too much!]] The truth is, I wasn't used to arguing with you that I had to draw up legal places to your attention, usually, don't take it as a flattery, but you seemed to read and know these laws. In comparison, he now stands up and claims that there is no legal remedy against the decision of local land committees in the Land Traffic Act. Where does he open the earth traffic law? CXXIII of 2013? , p. 68. Paragraph 5 of the Act starts with the following sentence:. The resolution of the local land committee may be challenged by the body of representatives of the local government. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you are in fundamental material error, Mr President, when you make the claim that there is no legal remedy for these decisions. But there's room! In fact, the Land Traffic Act goes on, 103/B. Paragraph (1) of the Act states that the local land committee is subject to legal supervision by the government office of the capital and county. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In fact, it goes further and says that there is room for judicial review against the full procedure. So what you're saying is that there's no control over the Earth Committee is simply not true, that's not what the Earth Traffic Act says, and that's not what you're telling us. By the way, there is also another mistake in the interpellation that I would like to draw your attention to. Are you saying that the land committee refused to allow a person who had a right to pre-emption rights to exercise his right in the hope of it? Do you think so? That someone else might beat him to it. Honourable Congressman, You can't beat it, because in the order of pre-emption, who precedes those behind it, you always have the right to acquire land in the first place. So just because the land committee rejects it, he may re-enact his pre-emptive right in another procedure, and if you like it, you can play this game until the end of time. [[Zoltán Pride: Yes, because it will never end.]] But no one can prevent the holder of the statutory order of pre-emption, even if you try to make that appearance. And if I add that you mentioned here about the 100-acre farmer, that he couldn't get an extra 1 hectare: how should I put it, I understand, I am sensitive to the problem, but I am glad that this is the biggest problem, that there is a 100-acre owner who wanted an extra 1 hectare, and somehow the decision of the local land committee was made that he couldn't do it. I wish I were in such a situation that this was my biggest problem, but as an opposition representative, obviously there is a lot of time available, which, if any, is not given as a State Secretary. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I would add that the figures are clear: 1 percent of all land committee decisions? that was questioned, by the way? Therefore, it is officially an objective number where there has been an appeal and further decisions will be taken in subsequent proceedings. I would just like to say one more thing about the numbers: when you were in government, 600 people have used the state land since we were in government, over 6,000 people have used it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-28	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Zoltán Gőgös if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-29	Thank you, Mr. President. The Secretary of State misunderstood something, and I asked basically whether the Ministry considered that the purchase of a hectare of land was for accumulation; or the purchase of half a hectare of land, Mr. Secretary of State. I don't think so. So if a person is rejected on such grounds, the point is that they put that paragraph in the land law so that they can reject anyone at any time. 'Cause this is the biggest bullshit I've ever seen in the world that I'm considered for hoarding? I'm gonna say this again so everyone understands? the purchase of one and a half hectares of agricultural land. The accumulation, Mr. Secretary, is speculation. So you see as a speculator any small farmer who wants to buy another half acre on 0.9 hectares. By the way, I suggest you take care of this case, because it's going to be a scandal, because you're telling me that you can appeal, and then a series of infinitesimals will begin. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Today's shortest administration of land law is eight months for a sale. [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2014-11-03-30	Congressman, we need an answer.
u2014-11-03-31	Secretary of State, I don't accept the answer.
u2014-11-03-32	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Bad concept, low quality, poor pedagogy? How does this become a good textbook? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2014-11-03-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, By transforming the textbook market and distribution, there have been a number of disadvantages for the participants in education, which will be extremely difficult to correct. On the one hand, they have faced administrative and financial difficulties for publishers with decades of experience, providing teachers with quality and modern help and popular publications, which force them to use their accumulated experience abroad. These publications have been replaced by books whose professional standards are not adequate for future generations to learn and acquire knowledge from them. Teachers who participated in the lectures on experimental textbooks complained, for example, about one of the experimental textbooks of the science course that the individual teaching units were too long, the size of the letters was small. The highlight of the essence is limited to only a few words in bold letters; it is neither logical nor didactic. The wording is often not very meaningful for an 11-12-year-old child. The alignment with individual subjects failed, for example, to refer to knowledge from mathematics that children had not yet learned in that class. The use of the diagrams is not consistent with the curriculum. In addition, we can find a wrong or incomplete explanatory text. The layout of the text and the quality of the images are also objectionable. But we can also mention the poem of John Lackfi, which came into a ninth - grade textbook without the poet himself wanting it there. Taking his ironic poem completely seriously, the task of using trainers is to be solved by students in this regard. As a feeling, a verse from the poem:, depis in the sani/mutterchen/ dobi cigarette in the hide/in the carburettor. In this case, it is not that we hold a curved mirror to young people about their use of language; this verse does not appear in the class of slang, but that style is set to be quite serious, and high school students encounter it. Earlier, when we confronted the government with the flaws in the quality of the textbooks, they said that they had been able to correct the mistakes in the light of the opinion of the experts, but the examples that I have put forward confirm that this did not happen. Who's responsible for all this, Mr. Secretary? Why have they intervened so harshly in the order of the textbook market if it's only available for such quality publications? Why don't you give me the teacher's opinion? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. ? A rare applause in the benches of the LMP.]]
u2014-11-03-34	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I think that everyone should have thought practically and ideally about which political side he was on, which political side he was sitting here in Parliament, because what we could have just heard here could have been envied by Bálint Magyar, because in a minute or two, when a speech, such as, sketchically, on paper, could have said something similar, because we could have heard the best of liberal schools, that the market was the best in the system of textbook supply; how good books were made by very good international owned companies, and now, in the new system, when they are excluded, they will sell the Hungarian language book abroad, and the book on Hungarian history will be sold abroad, and how bad it is for children. [[14.10]] First of all, I think it is important not to teach textbooks, but to teach children and students in schools. On the other hand, the congresswoman had forgotten that for 150 years there had always been a Hungarian state-owned textbook publisher, which was in Hungarian community ownership, so she published the textbooks, and this system worked well until the socialist-liberal government started to include the textbook distribution in the privatization wave, and gave them the most important textbook publishers representing national values in private hands, where they then sold the different textbooks with very good profit; they did not make the textbooks public, as they are now seen, but they were considered to be the source of their profits, as the books will be bought by the schoolchildren anyway. On the other hand, the new state-developed textbooks became fully public, we put them on the Internet, and everyone has free access to them. In previous years, the various private textbook publishers came up with huge royalty claims if someone used those textbooks, but we made them available free of charge to everyone. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Now, in November they did not get it yet.]] The process of experimental textbooking is more complicated than what the congresswoman described here. You know very well, but you didn't tell me that there was a National Book Council, which developed a very complex procedure: you involved the best representatives of the pedagogical departments and research workshops, on the one hand, in order to create a textbook application process that only allows a quality textbook. And this was obviously based on previous textbook licensing procedures, so all the criteria that we had before to allow private publishers' textbooks are also here, but we have made the approval procedure for them even more stringent. You know very well that there is such a degree of development in the field of textbooks, in the field of experimental, renewed textbooks, which was unimaginable in the case of private-owned publishers. Teachers have been included in this development process for hundreds and thousands, not for free, and you know it very well: a teacher can receive about 400 thousand forints a year as an extra income, if he undertakes to participate in this textbook development, he will lead a workday on how he can teach each chapter of the textbooks what needs to be improved, or similar to what you said; although if these are the biggest mistakes about the textbooks that have been made here, then I think we have no reason to be particularly ashamed. Well, so these teachers receive a very large number of extra money to help them work together, because it was never before that the new textbooks were created together with teachers and so the children, they were always prepared, accredited and used in a workshop. But the fact that hundreds of teachers here will have an opinion on a textbook in a year's time and the staff of the Institute of Education and Development will be able to correct these errors, I think, is an example of a higher quality textbook. In addition, you know very well that in this new system we managed to reduce the cost of textbooks, higher than 450 forints for experimental textbooks. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] can't find; or in an emerging system, 730,000 children's parents don't have to pay for free textbooks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-36	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-37	Dear Secretary of State, You attributed me sentences I simply didn't say. I didn't protect the previous system for textbook distribution. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes!]] and the textbook market. I don't think it worked impeccably. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He literally said that!]] But I think you destroyed it by destroying its values? Which, by the way, I don't think you can take away that you had values? Unfortunately, they threw it in the trash. I do not think the question of the textbook market is that an actor is a public or market, but the question is that he produces high-quality textbooks that are popular and cheap among children and teachers? Whether or not it helps teachers from the point of view of teaching. If a market participant meets these criteria, I believe that the market participant can rightly be part of the textbook market. The procedure for textbooks is not a guarantee of anything; the concept lawsuits were also conducted in socialism, yet we know that they were conceptual. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So this procedure alone is not a guarantee, so I cannot accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-38	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 40 against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. If it is EU money, then no matter where it goes? Title II. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2014-11-03-39	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, The Öveges programme promotes the renewal of scientific training, and the objectives of the EU-funded initiative are also considered very important by the LMP. However, despite the training and innovation objectives, the use of resources raises suspicion of serious abuses. During the project, tens of millions of HUF were spent on classroom renovations, but what is noticeable is that more than this magnitude has been spent on various studies, the preparation of the curriculum, the development of workbooks and specialist tutorial aids; not only the application was expensive, but the implementation is also wasteful. The LMP's been looking into what it's about. The Öveges programme runs in more than half a hundred Hungarian settlements and in the metropolitan district; it is not incidental that the majority of them are Fidesz-led municipalities, and it is not incidental that in many cases these municipalities have been entrusted with companies without reference. We tracked down all the crime scenes and requested all the documents. Even though biology, chemistry and physics experiments are, of course, the same in every city? has the LMP demonstrated this during a spectacular demonstration? Each city and district ordered their workbook separately, and many times they were the same workbooks by letter; did we also ask for the help of the faculty? These were made for millions of forints each. This is already limping, but what is outrageous: we have not seen in one case that these documents are not just the same word for word, but the amount paid for them is also huge. When ordering workbooks, a huge percentage of EU money was paid unnecessarily, perhaps a European record. The LMP also found out that Klebelsberg Institutional Management Center was equally involved in the waste. The CLIK acted as if it didn't know what was going on in schools; as if the institutions weren't part of a maintenance unit: they also spent these heavy sums one by one to carry out the same tasks. Dear Minister, The Öveges programme shows exactly how the EU's money distribution system, developed under socialist governments and improved by Fidesz, operates in Hungary: overpriced jobs, a narrow circle of beneficiaries, millions of mandates of companies unknown in communication, legal and advisory contracts and without reference? This institutionalized corruption, which has pumped 50-80 percent of the resources into private pockets. It's been months, nothing's happened since we brought this up at the beginning of the summer. LMP conducted your investigation, and we proved it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] There's been a billion-dollar waste. What about this test? And who is responsible for this program? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-11-03-40	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Lázár responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-11-03-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that on 19 June 2014 our fellow Member Erzsébet Schmuck interpelled on this issue, in which he asked the government to conduct an independent investigation to confirm or disprove the press reports concerning abuses related to the implementation of the Öveges programme. In this connection, I indicated to my fellow Member in the reply I gave to his question that the government had ordered an internal investigation, and I ordered it in the Internal Audit Department of the Prime Minister's Office. The first written version of the study, available here, was completed on 14 October, and thirteen programmes were examined in detail. The whole program started as a HUF 18 billion programme and the contract was signed for HUF 17 billion. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that the general findings on the use of EU funds for the administration of socialists are not too far from reality, but I would like to point out that in recent years we have taken hard steps to curb these processes. [[14.20]] I consider it a natural phenomenon that, where 8200 billion HUF is distributed, abuses and abuses may occur in a relatively poor country. The question is whether the government is doing everything it can to prevent this or unauthorized use of money. When I first took over? In the capacity of secretary of state? the management of this office, which was completely replaced by the government in 2012 and 13? Isn't that a coincidence? , then the first steps included strengthening internal control. The current internal control was appointed by the Hungarian Government not after 2010, but before that, in consultation with the European Union. I would like to point out that, in the context of my fellow Member's current question, it is important to emphasise that I am going to present unfinished test results. So far, the written material of the investigation has been handed over to the managing authority and intermediate organisation of the Ministry of Human Resources, who have supervised the programme professionally to give an opinion. According to our findings and our opinion, at this stage of the investigation, it was considered that the money was being used incorrectly. I would like to mention a few reasons: firstly, the publication of the tender, which preceded the Öveges programme, raises the suspicion that it has not acted as a good farmer and carefully as the author of the tender. I do not claim that this is a serious irregularity or a crime, because the rule system approved by the European Union has allowed infrastructure investment to be 30% or 50% within the programme. In Hungarian: based on the mandate of the European Union, 70 million or 50 million out of 100 million forints could be spent on non-infrastructural types of expenditure, communication, legal advice and project preparation. I think it's wrong. I would like to remind you that I have informed Parliament that, in terms of so-called soft costs, the government will reduce spending opportunities to 12.5 per cent in the period 2014-20 from the 50 per cent to 30 per cent range; so it will be possible to use 12.5 per cent compared to 30 per cent and 50 per cent. On the basis of our investigations, the possibility of over-pricing the programme arises, and the possibility that more than one procurement has been affected by the rules of transparency and the Public Procurement Act. These findings of investigation, which in general cannot contradict your claim that there has been an irregularity in this particular case, will be addressed to the Ministry concerned for the time being, and I will then make them fully available to the public. I would like to give the Ministry of Preparation and the complicating municipalities the chance to answer the questions that we have raised, which are identical to yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-42	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-43	I would definitely like to say that we are very pleased that the investigation has progressed so far, and we hope that these materials will be published as soon as possible, and we also hope that those responsible will be named here. We feel that this is a case in which the LMP has taken action, and we have managed to investigate such a case, and thank you, I accept the answer, yes. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-44	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the ministerial response to the interpellation. [[Noise, murmur.]] Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] What are the results of the firefare reduction programme? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor. You're okay with Before I give you the floor, Congressman? I would like to ask my fellow Members to leave the Chamber who wishes to leave quietly. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the last week, it seems that the real cold weather has finally arrived, we are headed for winter. In time, district heating systems were activated, and even those who had survived to save money had already heated up their homes. At this time, during the heating season, we can really see the effectiveness of the government's reduction programme. The price reduction of electricity, gas and district heat has so far resulted in savings of HUF 334 billion for the population, and this positive process will continue and even expand this year. It was a good news that after users of gas and district heating, as of this year, people who heat wood will be able to reduce their costs, because the program of state forest farms has started, which sells firewood 10 percent cheaper. In addition, this programme will take place in parallel with social firewood support, so that this year will be significantly cheaper compared to previous years. The 170,000 cubic metres frame available for public forestry has been sold for three weeks throughout the country. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the results of the programme are. What is the interest in cheap firewood on the part of the population? What are the conditions for obtaining cheaper firewood? What is the rate of reduction of firewood, together with social firewood support? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bitay Márton Örs responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, a new era has also begun in this regard. We are not talking about how much it has increased and what it costs, but we are talking about how much and what it has been costing, and I think it is a very important item in the life of Hungarian families that we should not pay more and more for these expenses, but because of government policy, these services are costing less and less. I think I feel it's a logical order in the government's policy of reducing electricity, that gas, district heat, electricity? And can you even tell me what the price has fallen? After that, the price of residential firewood should also be reduced. A lot of people in Hungary, typically in the countryside, have a lot of people who provide the heat of their homes with firewood in whole or in part, so it was very important for them to have some tangible impact on the policy of reducing the costs at the beginning of the heating season, so the 22 state forestry farms launched a program with 170,000 cubic meters of residential firewood. I could also say that this 170,000 cubic meters is not an engraving number, we can increase the size or amount of this, but we have launched a program to ensure that these people in the countryside can benefit from the result of the reduction of the costs. 170,000 cubic meters? Since 10 cubic metres per household have been determined, is this the amount to be purchased from reduced-price firewood? Therefore, it provides an opportunity for about 20,000 families, given that experience has shown that the 10 cubic metres are not being used, it is somewhere below what they need. It was also very important to try to close every loophole as far as possible. The aim was to really get this residential firewood into the hands of people rather than merchants, so the state forest farm takes out every order and delivers it itself, putting this firewood in the yard of the family, the household. You can't ship it, you can't buy it, because we have guided systems, and it becomes clear that the goal is not to call in, demand it, send the car out, and take it somewhere, but the state forest farm will take this tree to the yard of the demanding family. Is the social firewood programme in addition to the firefare reduction programme? As the congressman mentioned? They're very different from each other. Anyone can buy from reduced firewood, there is no restriction in this respect, but those in need of it, defined by law, can get free of charge, and with the help of the Ministry of the Interior, this firewood will reach the Hungarian families with the involvement of the local authorities. I would just like to indicate that there was no such programme before 2012, that in 2012 HUF 1 billion was available, in 2013 HUF 2 billion is available, and in this year, 3 billion forints for social firewood is available to obtain this product. We would very much like to see these programmes expanded further. You have to think about what opportunity there is for that? Using the market potential of public forest farms, which is roughly 60 percent of the firewood market? How can we make more effective the government's policy of reducing its costs. Thank you very much for your question, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.30]]
u2014-11-03-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask Mr János Pócs if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-11-03-49	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I believe that in his reply he also convinced me that either in the capital city or in larger cities and in rural settlements, the government's complex reduction programme gave back to people, families, the one-month salary, the one-month pension that the previous government had taken. On behalf of these families, I thank the Government's programme with respect and accept its reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Tens of thousands are taken out of the pockets of hundreds of thousands, or what is the truth about the burdens of families? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2014-11-03-51	Mr President, Dear House, The increase in the family tax relief was promised several times this year. In May 2014, before the EU elections, it was announced that there could be a significant increase in family tax relief for the two children. This was mentioned several times during the summer, and then they pulled away before the municipal elections. In fact, you have broken an election promise by not raising the family tax reduction next year. They screwed the families over, it was a election bluff, and 350,000 families expected to get more next year. Depending on the request, they would have received 13-20,000 forints more. According to the government's calculations, all this amounts to HUF 55-60 billion. How much did they cut through the Hungarian families? On the other hand, they figured that they would increase the desire to marry with money, and they thought that for 5 thousand forints, young people who, if they could, would rather get out of this country. This proposal is also discriminatory because it can only be given to families with work and only until they are entitled to family tax relief. Looks like you're not just raising a child anymore, you're also linking a marriage to an employment relationship. But no matter how much they drip for a few thousand people, it's still gonna make the majority worse next year. It is worse because with tax increases and new taxes, they put a heavy burden on families. I list: cafeteria tax, soap tax, shampoo tax, detergent, road tax, an average family can lose up to 10,000 forints a month. Although I might add, even economic experts today cannot appreciate the increase in the spending of families due to the new tax types. One thing is certain, they also say that they put brutal burdens on Hungarian families. All this will come next year in addition to what has already been introduced: transaction tax, accident tax, telephone tax. You will also kill the system of extra-wage benefits, not by 35.7 percent next year, but by 51.17 percent. It is calculated that a earner will receive 4 thousand forints less on a monthly basis. In six years, they managed to increase the public burden on the cafeteria from zero to 51 percent. This is not only for workers, but also for children in need who have gone camping as a result. The Erzsébet programme operates primarily from the benefit of the voucher. Overall, it can be said that you have been able to completely eliminate the apparent benefits of the reduction in overhead costs. As we see the dissatisfaction of the crowds walking down the street, they have already eliminated themselves. That's why I'm asking: why don't you withdraw the bill? Why do they want to put new burdens on Hungarian families, why do they not realize that people are sick of new taxes and of you? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2014-11-03-52	Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, thank you very much for the fact that in your interpellation, I accidentally said three praises, because I took out from your words that you demand that we increase and increase the rate of family tax relief. [[Nándor Gúr: It shouldn't have been stopped!]] So I think that this is certainly a positive thing, and in essence also welcomed the marital tax relief, although it does expect little effect, but it welcomed it. The third positive element in your interpellation is the encampment of Elizabeth itself and the children in need. I believe there is something to welcome in Fidesz's program, because, although you were not a Member, I do not know if you were a socialist party at all when you were ruling, but I will give you some of the measures you have taken against the families, if you will allow me. For example, children and children were limited from three to two years. Or, for example, they stopped lending on the basis of forints and forced families to take on foreign currency loans to buy homes and build homes. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Or, for example, they simply eliminated the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called. But for example, the family support system was frozen or tax relief for families with one and two children was abolished, but they even thought about taxing the family allowance. The Constitutional Court has prevented this from happening to you. To the third element of your interpellation, let me say that there is indeed an element in it that is considered an alarm, because, for example, let me talk about the scale of the soap tax, shampoo tax, that you have listed. Like a Baba soap? the environmental product fee, if introduced, then? one forint will be 50 pennies more expensive, but otherwise we will actually pay 20-30 for a shampoo and a detergent per bottle. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP, the president's ringing the bell.]] However, it must be acknowledged that they are products that pollute the environment. And if you will allow me now, let me deny that Fidesz does not increase the burden of families, just by increasing, for example, the family discount, which will double from 2016 to 2019, and will therefore take more than a million families. But a very important discount, which was introduced from 2014 onwards, is that it is possible not only from taxes but also from contributions to benefit from family tax, which is a benefit for many tens of thousands of families. Or we could talk, for example, about the ged extra, which will continue in 2015, which means that there will also be this benefit in addition to work. But OSH is also very important, as it will also give a benefit to mothers from the employer's point of view if they are able to benefit from the full tax relief. From 1 July 2015, new home-building programmes will be launched, after which you will be able to get a discount from HUF 700 thousand to HUF 1 million 170 thousand and not only for the purchase of new apartments and new constructions, but also for the renovation and expansion of used apartments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In contrast to his claim, we do give to families and support families, not take away from them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-55	I don't accept it, Mr. President, and I've had enough of lying today. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then sit down.]] just like last week's announcement of a 2.2 percent increase in pension and 1.8 percent the next day. Let me just say one item, Mr. Secretary of State: 29 billion forints are being taken away from children's meals, from local governments, 9 billion are being given to the police, 20 billion to the CLIK, who has not managed to achieve textbook care normally to this day. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's the Kello!]] This week it was found that there were still schools where in November children did not have textbooks that were paid for in August. You know, then press the yes button to still take 29 billion forints from poor and starving children!
u2014-11-03-56	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 32 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. How many new types of tax can be found? It's an address. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. [[14.40]]
u2014-11-03-57	Mr President, Dear House, During the last five elections, the government has typically campaigned for no further cuts, even for the introduction or reduction of taxes introduced or raised by the cabins that had been registered until 2010. On the other hand, a dozen new or new taxes were introduced from 2010 onwards, and further increases were made following the 2014 parliamentary elections, bringing this system to the point that now there could be a greater burden on some families and, more specifically, the majority of families. Last week's tax package, called a tax package, puts more pressure on a family than the so-called reduction in overhead costs. It can therefore be seen that, together with passing on sectoral special taxes, this has produced a tax tsunami that affects the population of Hungary more seriously than ever before, perhaps only the Bokros package has had such profound effects. But since 2010, did you see that - in concrete terms? by abolishing the tax credit, by drastically reducing benefits outside the wage, by taxing cafeteria in the first round, by raising the VAT level from 25 to 27 per cent, by de facto introducing real estate tax? We're looking at communal taxes here, aren't we? , increasing excise duty on fuels, increasing the minimum freeway use from four to ten days, reducing sick pay and introducing electronic tolls have been an amazing burden on both citizens and their small and micro-enterprises. This was a carpet bombing against the Hungarian families. Now we see that the tax package that we discussed last week, again, is burdening families in a way that goes beyond what we call a reduction in the cost of electricity. In fact, perhaps everyone can see that I am not speaking of bias, but in terms of shampoo tax and others, it can also be said that meaningless load levels have also been introduced into this system. It can be seen that from 2015 the Erzsébet voucher, the Széchenyi rest card, the voluntary pension fund, the health fund contribution, the local lease, the school start allowance and the public burden of work catering would rise to more than 51 percent. Once again, it's a carpet bombing, typically against small-time earners, typically in very difficult situations. So the question is: are any types of taxes expected to be eliminated, reduced to tolerated levels, or are there any new ideas in the hands of the government? What do you mean? I'm gonna say it again? a record-level new tax, a record-level tax increase, must now be swallowed by the Hungarian population. So the question is: where is the end of the tsunami? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I think that the most important question in a country's tax system is not how many taxes there are, so how many taxes there are in number, but the important question is how much of the income generated, the percentage of GDP, is taken away as tax by the state. And if we look at Hungary's performance in this way over the past four years, then we can be proud. We can be proud because when we took over governance in 2010, economic growth, 41 percent of the income generated, was deducted as a tax, and then this rate fell to 38-39 percent, and this is what it will be this year, and this is what it was last year, and we will be talking about this in the next year. More taxes may have been introduced in number, but corporate tax and personal income tax, as regards the income generated by people and businesses, have been reduced. It has decreased in terms of corporate tax, since up to HUF 500 million, only 10 percent of the corporate tax has to be paid, which is one of the lowest in Europe. And it has decreased in terms of personal income tax, because the tax burden on families raising children, with the introduction of a single-key tax, by increasing family tax relief, has been significantly reduced, but the tax burden on those families who do not raise children has also been reduced. Yes, because the government says that it has introduced a new tax system, the essence of which is that it has placed the emphasis on consumption and turnover taxes, so the government says that those who earn income should pay low taxes so that they can spend more, but by consuming more, they will pay more taxes to the State. That is why, since the change of government, general traffic tax revenue has been constantly increasing along this concept, this philosophy. Of course, there are other types of taxes, special taxes. The essence of the special taxes is that sectors, sectors that have not yet been sufficiently involved in public burdens, should contribute, both as an impact of the crisis and, on the other hand, I think that in a naturally functioning, healthy country, it is natural for everyone to be involved in public burdens. And that's exactly the point of the special taxes. But the introduction of special taxes, such as the bank tax or the introduction of a transaction fee, even you supported the introduction of sectoral taxes. And the transfer of taxes to consumers is very interesting if we look at the statistics on how it is possible that inflation in Hungary is, in essence, now barely above zero percent. If it were true that everything was being shifted, inflation would not be so low and real income would not be able to increase by 2.6-3 percent. So the problem you raise may be a problem, because there is probably some truth in this, but it is not a social problem of the level that you are stressing here in Parliament. I believe that the government is carrying on a correct tax philosophy when it has developed this, and even more appropriate when it tells society that in the next four years the tax system will not fundamentally change, only the rate of income tax will be reduced, because we want the key to corporate tax and personal income tax to be single-digitd in this cycle. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-60	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-61	Dear Secretary of State, Is your answer unacceptable because if you look at only the level of numbers, the Orbán government in 2010? The one at the time? With 34 central taxes, we found 41 such taxes before this year's elections, and since then new types of taxes and increases have been created for us only. Once again, it's not the bias that I'm talking about, say, raising the shampoo tax or introducing a fake flower tax or increasing the various fees on office paper, but we have to say, it's pretty amazing to justify your alleged success. Are you saying that your government can be proud of you in terms of GDP? Allegedly, according to your statistics? slightly less burden on citizens. I would like to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, that if more people find themselves dead and this increases the turnover of undertakers, this will temporarily lead to higher GDP, so you have chosen the worst possible indicator in this respect. Tens of thousands of forints per family increase the burden that unduly affects families [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It should hit the multinationals and banks by preventing transfers. Talk about this next time, and then maybe the meaningful answer is... [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-62	I'd like your answer, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept, if I understood correctly, the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. New Year, new habits: can we dig the graves ourselves next year? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2014-11-03-63	Thank you for the opportunity. Dear Secretary of State, In just two months, in the middle of winter, from 1 January, the social funeral system will be in place, which will separate the poor from the non-poor in death. A separate social plot will have to be created for municipalities in cemeteries. And in exchange for a free burial site and coffin, they expect a personal contribution from the deceased's relative. The social funeral was first brought to light in May 2013 on a draft legislation. According to this, the cemetery's maintainer will be obliged to assign a separate plot for coffin or urn so-called social burial sites, and the state will provide supplies, caskets, urns and others. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It was already mentioned in the draft that the condition of a social funeral would be that the buryer or the person he invited would take a personal contribution during the funeral, such as dressing the deceased, digging up the grave, burying or saying goodbye to the deceased, perhaps lowering the coffin or burrowing the grave. [[14.50]] The idea of social burial is the most eloquent proof of the inhumanity and cynicism of the Fidesz administration. It is inhuman, because it violates human dignity by ignoring the right of mercy of both the deceased and the relatives. It's cynical, because he only expects help from those who have nothing, as if they should be taught a lesson even in their grief. According to the bill adopted last year, regulation would have entered into force as early as January this year, but a year ago, at the end of autumn, the text was amended several times for various reasons. Finally, the entry into force was postponed by one year in the draft law amending certain laws relating to development policy. That last sentence in itself is outrageous. The point is that from 2015, or less than two months later, poor people who don't have money to bury their loved ones can actually dig the graves. We have already offered a real alternative solution. Back in the previous term, we submitted our proposal for a parliamentary decision on the introduction of the allowance, as the costs of burial actually represent an increasing financial burden for the population. This proposal has been swept off the table, and its purpose has been to provide real help, as opposed to your idea of self-service social funerals, humiliation and inhumanity. That's why I'm asking you if you see any chance that you're not going to introduce the inhumane funeral system you call social, and you really want the relatives to bury and kill their dead themselves. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-03-64	Thank you very much. The answer is from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During the preparation of the draft law on social funerals, and after the adoption of the law, the Socialist Group repeatedly raised its questions and doubts about this form of social burial. In response to this, it has been said in many cases by the government that this type of burial is not at all alien to domestic traditions, and what is important is that it is not a coercion for anyone, but an opportunity, an additional form of traditional social support, along with traditional funeral forms. The government has decided on the possibility of introducing a social funeral, taking into account the experience of recent years, in particular the increase in funeral costs. The purpose of the legal institution of social funerals is to create a free funeral choice on the subject. I would like to inform you here that there is no intention of delaying or withdrawing the entry into force of legislation on the institution of social funerals. It is necessary to repeat the details that during the use of the Social Funeral Package, the funeral home, the funeral supplies are provided by the State, and the transport of the deceased, their dressing in a health institution, the cremation of the request and the return of the ashes are also financed by the budget. Considering that the introduction of this burial form, this possibility, has resulted in a number of additional tasks? the designation of social parcels and the preparation of supplies? In view of this, the date of entry into force of the provision was indeed extended by the legislator. Once again, it's true that during the social funeral, the relative has to take care of his personal involvement, but? Did you tell him that, by the way? if you cannot or do not wish to carry out this on your own, you may use external assistance to do so. The degree of personal involvement therefore also depends on the choice of the relative. The Social Funeral Package is free of charge to the family member and does not appear as a legacy burden, so the burden of the population will not increase. As I have already mentioned in my response to the interpellation, the social funeral costs are borne by the bodies involved in the proceedings in order to reduce the burden on relatives. The institution of the social funeral was accepted by the Parliament by amending the Law on Cemeteries and Funerals, so it will be introduced from 1 January 2015. I must reiterate that this optional form is also suited to the domestic conditions and to the load-bearing capacity of the Hungarian state. In addition to the possibility of a social burial, the usual forms of funeral relief are still available. On the one hand, the municipal authorities may grant aid to the costs of burying the deceased person, which must reach 10 percent of the local funeral costs, but, if necessary, up to 100 percent of the funeral costs. On the other hand, the local government must ensure that the deceased are buried at public expense if there is, or cannot be, a funeral obligation or no one provides for the burial of the deceased. For those in need, therefore, the opportunities provided for in the social law will continue to be available, thereby forming a system of state aid for the worthy burial of deceased persons. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-11-03-67	I'll let you know I won't accept the answer. Here and there, the House also talks about the fact that the abundance of aid will be abolished next year. Mr. Secretary, you're referring to the possibility that a significant part of the funeral allowance will be able to bury the dead, so that's very smiley. Look, in Budapest, as I navigated, the dead must be placed in the grave for about two kilometers without the help of a motor vehicle. Don't you think we're not saying that this is an inhuman, this is an outrageous idea? ! We've been begging you for almost two years not to humiliate the dead. If millions of people in this country were humiliated in their lives in terms of government measures, they would at least consider the dead. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the interpellation period. Now it's time for immediate questioning. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. All my fellow Members, who must now leave the Chamber because of their urgent duties, should do so without delay. [[It's a short break.]] We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Do you intend to investigate, Minister? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or waits for the Minister to be present.
u2014-11-03-69	Mr President, I'd like to wait for the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Thank you very much. [[15.00]] Congressman Bertalan Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on at the NAV? Mr. Prime Minister appointed Mr. János Lázár Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office to respond to his urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts Minister János Lázár as a reply.
u2014-11-03-71	Although I thought the National Tax and Customs Office belonged to the Minister of National Economy, the Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, I would have asked him the question, but I accept Minister Lazarus, I would ask him the question. Thank you.
u2014-11-03-72	Thank you, too. I accept the answer, Congressman, but according to the house rules, you have to answer yes or no at a time like this; but I let you say it. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, For weeks, Hungarian public life has been thrilled by the scandal about the US ban case, since six Hungarian citizens, including government officials, have been banned from entering the United States. In addition, this was done for reasons such as the fact that there are corruption cases in Hungary, and therefore these six Hungarian citizens, including government officials, cannot enter the territory of the United States. It is absolutely outrageous that, in such circumstances, when it is discovered that someone is stealing from the community and that someone is assisting it, the President of the National Tax and Customs Office or his deputy is going on vacation, and that several senior NAV colleagues simply cannot be reached, there is no way to get a statement, in addition to the fact that the National Assembly is negotiating tax laws here. There is a debate and then a vote, and the heads of the tax office are not staying in Hungary. The National Tax and Customs Office Act states that the Minister of National Economy exercises employers' rights. Therefore, if you can answer that question, I ask you whether the government has authorized the president of the NAV to go on leave. Have you taken into account the legal provision that the principles of professional ethics of government officials which apply to them, in particular, the promotion of loyalty, commitment, national interests, fair and equitable justice, dignity, integrity, freedom from prejudice, impartiality, how are these principles compatible with the fact that, under these circumstances, the President of the NAV has taken leave of absence? Did they ask you to interrupt your leave and come home to Hungary? I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-03-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-03-75	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. The first question that comes to mind about the answer is how you were able to select the officials of the NAV when the U.S. executive spoke of government officials, 457 thousand of whom are in Hungary. What information do you have, Congressman, about the fact that the National Tax and Customs Office belongs to the government officials involved in the investigation or, where appropriate, the officials who are banned? I would like to ask you, my dear Member, to name here in Parliament how you know why you believe that you are dealing with NAV administrators or NAV managers. We cannot move forward in the answers until you have reduced the 457 thousand government officials, in Hungarian, you tell us how you know or why you think they are NAV, and we are not talking about other 457 thousand government officials. The answer is enough to bring the flag of the United States of America between the European flag and the Hungarian flag, because then we will understand that behind the MSZP fraction, there may also be an agent of the United States of America in Budapest. That's enough for me in terms of symbolic answers. But let me draw your attention to the fact that without disclosure, confirmation and clear evidence, you are accusing 470 thousand government officials, 250 thousand municipal officials and about 950,000 people working in the Hungarian state sector with taxpayers' money. In addition, they accuse the most important organization collecting taxes, and I can tell you that the most successful tax year in the last 25 years will be 2014. Never so much VAT revenue has come together in the last 25 years thanks to the activity of the NAV. I'm asking why the MSZP fraction has an interest in weakening the NAV. Why is it in your interest to weaken the organisation that investigates criminal matters? Where do you guys get the exact information? [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-76	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of the matter. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, That's weird, I'm not a member of the government, but you asked me a lot of questions, but you didn't answer the questions. I didn't accuse anyone, the charge without evidence is your bread, as many, many cases show. Mihály Varga himself brought up a VAT fraud scandal that he expressed as a political response to the various news releases. A lot of people in the press have also said that VAT fraud cases can be associated with this ban case. Obviously, this leads to the conclusion that the National Tax and Customs Office, which is meant to pursue these crimes, must have something to do with it. And the many, many questions they asked the NAV leaders never denied that they were not among them, their leaders among these six. I ask with respect that you answer the question as to whether the president of the NAV has been ordered home in the midst of the scandal. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-03-78	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister.
u2014-11-03-79	It would be much easier if you could tell us who is writing the questions of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, so that we can identify exactly who is actually on which side. It would be easier to sort this out. My second point is that you do not think seriously, Mr President, that the issue of freedom for an actor in the executive power, although no doubt a very important player, can be considered as a serious issue at the plenary session of Parliament. It is unworthy of a serious Member of Parliament to bring the 470 thousand government officials on leave before Parliament. [[It's a lot of noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, Ildikó Vida, I presume - I have no idea, I presume? that, in compliance with all legislation on the Code of Work and the status of government official, he announced and, if necessary, authorised his absence. And since, as I said in this House, I think all 950,000 government officials and civil servants in Hungary have the right to leave, please respect that. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-80	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What is the real face of Fidesz? It's an address. Because of his urgent public mission, Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or waits for the Prime Minister with the answer.
u2014-11-03-81	Mr. President. With sufficient patience and calmness, I'd like to wait for Prime Minister to answer my question.
u2014-11-03-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, vice-president of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Why does the government not honour the election promise made to families? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I see that Mr. Vice-President will accept Mr. Secretary of State for his answer. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-83	Dear Secretary of State, The tax laws that have recently been submitted rightly give rise to citizens' morals. I am thinking not only of the Internet tax, or that local governments will have almost unlimited rights to tax residents to any extent, but also of the government's firm promise to double the tax relief for families with two children before the municipal elections. Jobbik has repeatedly said that it is essential to make the system of family tax relief fairer. In simple language, the state currently supports the birth of the second child by HUF 10 000, while the birth of the third child is supported by HUF 80,000. This is obviously an excessive distinction between families with two and three children. Dear Secretary of State, The stakes are $50 billion. That's what they want to do next year, and they want to do it just a little bit by bit. Mr. Secretary. You're out of momentum? Is it no longer an urgent question whether our nation will disappear from the planet Earth? Is it no longer an urgent question that before we disappear, our social security, our pension system will collapse? Because if it still matters, it is essential to act quickly. Everyone must be aware that if not enough children are born, there will be no one to create the value of pensions. If there aren't enough children, you might be raising the retirement age soon, or reducing pensions like the MSZP. The retirement age cannot be further increased. Jobbik submitted an amendment to the tax law in order to keep their election promise and to double the tax and tax benefits for the family in 2015. [[15.10]] We strongly demand that their promise be taken seriously. Not because your credibility is being destroyed again, but because it is about the most important issue of our nation: giving life, giving the nation a future, families with children and those who are now retiring. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-03-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The parliamentary majority of the Fidesz-KDNP and the government will fulfill their election promise. So the family tax reduction will be doubled in this cycle in the case of single and two children, from HUF 10 000 per month to HUF 20,000. This programme will start from 2016 and will be completed in 2019. This is already included in the current tax law. However, Fidesz was the one after the change of government in 2010 who completely transformed the personal income tax system and said that, in addition to uniform public burdens, those raising children should benefit from the advantage. Therefore, the family tax allowance was returned to families with one and two children and increased as much as possible in the last four years. However, the tax relief was extended in such a way that tax relief could now be used not only from taxes but also from contributions from 1 January 2014. We believe that this message has been understood by society and that families who raise children welcome and support Fidesz's system of family tax relief. It is natural to expect this tax reduction to be extended or increased in the coming years, depending on the performance of the economy. I think that a well-thought-out and consistent tax system is part of the personal income tax system, including the family tax relief system of the Fidesz-KDNP majority. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-03-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Vice President. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-87	Secretary of State, did you promise me twice from 2015? I repeat: 2015? double tax relief and benefits for families with two children. It was all two elections, once it was promised right before the EU elections, one day before it, and then again before the municipal elections. I can congratulate your communication deceiving team on the fact that we managed to make this proposal twice before the elections, which they are now refusing to submit to Parliament. You said that they would fulfill that promise. Then all they can do is vote in favour of Jobbik's amendment, which is to do so next year, in accordance with their promise, which has been published twice in the media and declared at Secretary of State, ministerial level. So we ask you very strongly to do so. Don't give me five thousand forints of this money sometime, when you can, you won't even be on the government, but now, as long as you can, do it! It's 50 billion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] You were brave once, you gave 180 billion, you gave this opportunity to families, to families with two children, of whom there is the least in Hungary today, because their number is running out to the greatest extent according to statistics. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-03-88	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor.
u2014-11-03-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I'm really glad Jobbik likes the Fidesz family support system so much. Basically, he's telling his voters to vote for Fidesz because they do. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's benches. ? Dr. István Apáti: Don't vote because you're lying! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Fidesz founded and invented this family support system, not Jobbik. Of course, a opposition party has no responsibility in how to maintain a fiscal balance in a country. He doesn't have any responsibility in that. [[György Szilágyi: But there was a promise before the elections!]] how the 3-percent deficit can be kept, that the European Union is eager to bring Hungary back under the excessive deficit procedure. You don't have any responsibility in this, and you might even be happy about it. We, on the other hand, have a responsibility, and we can only promise and legislate what the country can bear. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] We see that this is what you will be able to bear in this cycle, that we will double the family tax reduction for single and two children in four years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] That's our promise. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. ? György Szilágyi: A spirited audience! ? István Apáti: The rest!]]
u2014-11-03-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Relax, ladies and gentlemen. Relax. Then, when the time comes, they'll sign in for a two-minute comment, and I'll give you the proper speech. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who knows? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you if you'll accept the person you're responding to. Do you accept? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I accept!]] Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Two weeks ago, it was suspected that the United States had restricted the entry of certain persons close to the government to the United States, and apparently the government had done nothing to protect hundreds of thousands of government officials and civil servants who could now be incriminated and hundreds of completely innocent NAV employees who are also under the shadow of suspicion. You risk completely burning the stamp of corruption on the Hungarian government and on the NAV by making a fuss and blundering accusations. You're talking nonsense, Minister. You're no exception. We remember sitting there at the committee meeting, and it turns out you haven't asked me that yet, but you said you'd consult on it. Then he said he wasn't going to be asked. There was Mihály Varga, who said he refused to ask Ildikó Vida, because he might have been banned as a private person, which is completely nonsense, because whether he is banned as a private person or as a professional, it is definitely a national security risk for this country. But there's the Prime Minister who obviously knows who he's talking about. Let me recall a report; the reporter asked: "Are there civil servants?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's Viktor Orbán: in this we know? This is what the U.S. ambassador to Hungary said in Budapest. Viktor Orbán's answer:. Then this does not coincide with reality, it is also the answer, individuals and those who are employed by the state. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Minister, It is quite obvious that the Prime Minister knows exactly who the six people banned from entering the country by the United States are, and the Prime Minister has a legal right to ask. The Kstv. 18. The Prime Minister, acting in the function defined by the Fundamental Law, may decide on tasks for the heads of the bodies under the government's control or under the authority or supervision of the Minister, and may request information from them. Dear Minister, I respectfully ask you why Viktor Orbán is not taking this opportunity and why he is letting corruption burn on the NAV as well as on the entire administration. Thank you.
u2014-11-03-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-03-93	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Dear House, Mr President, I think the Prime Minister has made it clear on several occasions on this issue, and that is the united position of the government. In fact, in Hungary, such a serious statement as that made by the U.S. agent, i.e. six government officials, requires that anyone who claims to be in favour of the statement should also list his evidence. I am very surprised that in the National Assembly of Hungary, the Member of Parliament who took the oath does not ask the representative of the United States of America. Why don't you ask him, my fellow Member, the representative of the United States of America, who collectively accuses Hungarian government officials [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because he cannot be called here!]] What is the charge, the statement that any Hungarian citizen to whom all Hungarian parliamentary fellow Members have sworn to defend their rights is banned from the United States of America? In my opinion, as long as the United States of America does not come up with clear and clear evidence that at least predicts the probable cause of the crime or at least provides a basis, the Hungarian Government has nothing to do with the matter. As the agent himself noted, this is not a matter of public interest, the private affairs of the United States of America and those concerned, in this Hungarian government, as András Tállai quoted here literally last week, has nothing more to do. That's what the U.S. Attorney General said. I would like to ask you, if the United States of America refuses to help the Hungarian Government as an ally, do so as sworn Hungarian Members of Parliament, please turn to the representative of the United States of America in Budapest. Perhaps you know him, my fellow Member, perhaps you've met him. [[Dr. András Schiffer: No, no!]] Perhaps you've spoken to the U.S. Attorney General, Congresswoman. Ask him, as a Hungarian Member, who and what the United States of America are accusing you of. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] Neither the United States of America nor the United States of America have any reason to press charges. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2014-11-03-94	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-95	Dear Mr Lazarus, It's interesting to watch your communication. At the committee meeting, he also had a thin voice when he said how much he loved the United States, and since then he's been pointing his finger at the United States, and he doesn't realize that this country is not run by the United States, but you are currently. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] That is the problem here, Minister, because I can ask you specifically who the people who have been banned from the United States on charges of corruption are, and that is the question that neither you nor your colleagues nor the Prime Minister will answer. What's this about, Minister? The point is that there's a hard-ass accusation that you can't protect this country because you have one thing to do: your most important job is to scan the NAV, for example, and ask people who are close to the government. If there are 900,000 people, 900,000 people; if there are 1 million people, 1 million people; if there are 30 people, 30 people. It has to be done, because there are insurmountable consequences for corruption in this country that is seen overseas, but their own government is doing nothing to detect it.
u2014-11-03-96	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the minister's word. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-03-97	Thank you very much. Perhaps you should ask your group leader, my honourable fellow Member, how important it is that if someone makes a statement, he also discloses evidence of it to the public. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm asking the Prime Minister!]] The Hungarian government and the police have only one presumption in the András Horváth case, which we have already informed the National Security Committee and the public about. This is the only crime that is projected to be a probable cause, and in this case, the case of András Horváth, is currently under investigation, which is approaching its conclusion. That's all we know. That's all we're saying. The investigation is conducted in accordance with Hungarian law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you should ask the person who claims something, why you claim to do so. There is nothing to prevent you, my fellow Member, from registering with the representative of the United States of America and asking as an sworn Hungarian Member of Parliament, who, by the way, is also obliged to represent NAV workers, since you have to represent everyone as to why they claim to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]]
u2014-11-03-98	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member István Tiba, representative of Fidesz, notary of the Parliament, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: in Hungary, employment is growing best throughout Europe. How does the government support further job creation? It's an address. Minister Sándor Czomba has appointed Minister of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah, he'll take it. Congressman, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, A country's economy can only be successful if it supports the work and helps its citizens to work as much as possible. That is why it is glad that employment in our country continues to grow dynamically. According to the KSH report last week, 4 million 182 000 people have already worked in the July-September 2014 period, which is 192,000 more than a year ago. Unemployment has fallen to another low point, 2.4 percentage points, 7.4 percent in a year. Moreover, the competitiveness sector is increasingly contributing to employment growth, thanks to the government's well-functioning active employment programmes. In contrast to the employment policy of former socialist governments, since 2010, the government has committed itself to building a work-based economy in order to ensure that as many people as possible have a decent living in Hungary. Thanks to the measures taken in recent years on job creation, significant results have now been achieved. Today there are over 430,000 more people working than in the beginning of 2010. In the last year alone, the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by nearly 200,000, and the number of people employed in Hungary has increased by 3.1 percent in the second quarter of 2014. Dear Secretary of State, In my opinion, the benefits of the job protection action programme and the extra introduction of ged have a significant role to play in the growth of employment, as mothers with small children can take up work from this year onwards. As a result of the action programme for the protection of jobs, employment has been reduced over the past period and new investments and jobs can be created in Hungary. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: how does the government support further job creation? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in the last four years, huge progress has been made in terms of employment and unemployment. Indeed, Eurostat's latest figures also show that, on an annual/year basis, unemployment has again fallen to the greatest extent in Hungary, taking into account the entire European Union, but we need to see that with these positive data we are now in the two-thirds of the EU, so we have a lot to do. He asks what will happen to the programs we have taken so far. Shall we carry on? In short, that's all I can say. In fact, we will broaden the opportunities for those involved in the job protection action plan and all other programmes. They would remind you of the first job guarantee scheme or, where appropriate, of young people becoming entrepreneurs, so all programmes will be carried forward. In addition, perhaps the most important message is that in the period 2014-2020 around 60 percent of all available resources will focus specifically on economic development, including the thickest leg, on job creation; the first and fifth legs of the so-called innovative programme for economic development will ensure that the growth of employment in the competitive sector continues and even expands in the next period. Soon, I think that we will have quantitative and qualitative labour problems, and therefore we need to place a very strong emphasis on vocational training and adult education in the next period, so that if an investor arrives, there will be no barrier to the lack of adequate, good skilled labour in a given area or in a given area. The biggest problem is among young people, and we therefore want to involve very significant developments and resources in the framework of the Youth Guarantee Programme in the coming years. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At a one-minute rejoinder, the notary of the Parliament, Mr István Tiba, shall be the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Over the years wasted by socialist governments, unemployment has steadily increased, since between 2002 and 2008 the number of unemployed people has doubled from 238 thousand to 474 thousand, and we are also at an international competitive disadvantage in terms of employment. With regard to its population, almost one million more people worked in Portugal or the Czech Republic in the same size as Hungary than in Hungary. However, Hungary is not only a leader in improving employment but also in reducing unemployment in Europe through the actions of the civil government. In the last year, the unemployment rate has decreased by 2.4 percentage points across Europe. I ask the Secretary of State to continue to do everything in his power. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-105	I'm sure you will, Congressman. I was just talking about the Youth Guarantee programme. In the first round, we would like to include young people under the age of 24 in the system by training, re-training and access to different jobs, worth approximately HUF 36 billion by six months. There is also one very important thing here: we would like to facilitate the transition from public employment to the competition sector in the next period, and in areas and areas where we can only provide opportunities in the context of public employment at the moment, creating the possibility of leaving, even in the order of tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands in the next three to four years, we should be able to find a job in the competition sector as many of our countrymen as possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of State in charge of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Is there a double standard? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, It is a well-known fact that 177 thousand honest and responsible citizens who offered 1.1 billion forints of their personal income tax 1 percent to help their fellows with ragweed allergies. Finally, however, the Ministry of Agriculture abused the trust of taxpayers. The Orbán government used most of the Hungarians' tax forints offered for deflecting grass for a completely different purpose, including severance payments, car purchases, participation in festivals and many other things. This is outrageous and unacceptable. Minister, on the other hand, the Kehi report, similar to the concept of domestic civilians, contains, among other things, the following. [[15.30]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In several cases, the beneficiaries have also charged the aid with costs not linked to the purpose of the tender. In several cases, the findings are based on the new Btk. 396. Paragraph 7 of the Act provides for suspicion of the commission of budgetary fraud. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Given that the action of the former Ministry of Rural Development, the spending of HUF 642 million out of HUF 1.1 billion on measures not related to the original objectives is spookily similar to Kehi's findings on lawlessness, I am asking you, whether the Kehi report leads to an investigation in the Ministry of Agriculture of 1 percent on raggrass. Who is responsible for what happened at the Ministry of Agriculture's predecessor, or is there simply a double standard, like many others? Thank you.
u2014-11-03-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-11-03-109	Mr President, Thank you very much. My dear fellow Member, I have two things to tell you. Based on legislative and almost a few years of government experience, the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance is always responsible for such matters, so it is never the wallet, given that in 2011 the HUF 1.1 billion, which was really labelled by taxpayers to fight the ragweed, was blocked by the government on the basis of the presentation of the Ministry of Economy. This was a total of 542 million forints, plus a hundred million forints item later, from which was the 642 million forint lockup, which made it impossible for the civil society organisations concerned to get access to the 2011 funds. Last time I listened carefully to your speech, which, if I remember correctly, was about the same thing, and then my State Secretary István Nagy replied. Then I asked the Ministry of Economy for information on the blocking at that time. The situation is not complicated, since the reason for the deficit reduction was because of the sealing order ordered by the Ministry of Economy. After Hungary has been a member of the European Union since 2004, the procedure could be initiated against those who impose a 3 percent binding deficit target on Hungary under the Hungarian EU Association Agreement. If we didn't have to keep the deficit target? As I read correctly, in 2015, the French do not really address the EU deficit target? Then, of course, there would have been no need in 2011 for the blockings at that time. We took over the ruins of the Hungarian Socialist Party's government with a 10 percent deficit, and we keep it in the 2.5-2.9 range. Summa summarum, I can tell you, my dear fellow Member, that the government, at its meeting the day after tomorrow with the Ministry of Economy, will decide on the replacement of HUF 642 million, based on the basic presentation of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Agriculture, and forward it to the civil society organisations concerned.
u2014-11-03-110	Thank you very much, Minister. The congresswoman will take the floor for a minute. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-03-111	Which is why I asked János Lázár on this question: you are right, Mr State Secretary, I asked you this question, but at that time you were very encouraging Mr Secretary of State to answer the question, which is why I thought that I would then ask János Lázár in this matter. There's only one thing. We'll wait for your decision tomorrow. However, if this decision is not formulated as it should be, then the citizens' taxes and citizens' confidence in you may be shaken. You still have tax issues to deal with. We are amending tax laws and adopting a budget when the management of the NAV is on holiday abroad. They want to introduce a net tax; when they see that there is complete indignation, regardless of age, they will plant this case a little. Soap tax, cafeteria tax, fake flower tax, when the leaders are out on vacation. Mr. Secretary. The voters didn't authorize you to do this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] You should maintain a European democracy, that is what we expect of you. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. For a moment, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-113	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I can give you good news because of the fruitful cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, as the social organizations fighting the ragweed, who, I believe, have also earned all my fellow Members of Parliament and their wallets because of the fate of this HUF 642 million, will receive this money back. On Wednesday, under the financial provisions of the Ministry of Economy, the Government will take this decision. So the question of my fellow Member the other day was not in vain, and his work was successful. The government is pleased to be able to correct this mistake. My second point is that in this world we have been living in since 2004, the parties on the left can always be listed as tax experts in the so-called European Union. The European tax system, which punishes performance, success, results, is a completely left-wing invention. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] A person who has an account in tax matters, in tax matters, is specifically the European assembly of left-wing parties, including the MSZP. It is worth checking out that between 2002 and 2010 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] what taxes have been introduced and how you have exercised tax policy. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-114	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: 'Mr Minister, will this again be a budget for new taxes and old cuts? It's an address. Minister, you have appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to answer your urgent public service. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Deputy Chief of Staff indicates that he accepts the identity of the responder. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The government has submitted next year's budget, which can be described by roughly the figures and trends it has learned so far, as a budget for new taxes and old austerity. Why do we say that? Since Fidesz came to government in 2010, there has not been a year in which it has not introduced various new taxes; the number of taxes and, I add, the rate of taxes has increased steadily in recent years. And why we say that it is not just the new taxes, but the old austerity budget: when we asked the representatives of the government here in Parliament about which of the six austerity packages they named under socialist governments had been repealed, they could not mention one such restrictive measure that had been repealed, even taken by socialist governments. Not a single one. Compared to this, new restrictions come one by one. By the way, I recommend to the Secretary of State the State's report on the closure of last year's budget, which clearly shows that people have paid even more taxes in Hungary than before. So you're campaigning to build a government for tax cuts, and the numbers point to the government for tax increases. We are asking, Mr Secretary of State, with great emphasis, in the interests of the poorest people, that at least the VAT on basic foods, at least the VAT on articles needed to raise children, should be reduced to 5%, because the economic policy that you are following is causing an increasing social crisis in Hungary, many people have virtually nothing to eat. So please ask the government for a 5% VAT reduction on basic foods and articles for child rearing. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-116	Thank you very much. The answer is from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-117	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, You talk about the budget in your question, and then in your speech about the tax laws. So I'd like to go back to the budget for a moment. This is not the budget for tax increases, but the budget for the accountability of banks, because it is important and important in one country that banks recover the damage caused to more than one million people, the size and amount of which will exceed HUF 1000 billion. This is in the context of the budget and people, because the resources and money saved will appear in households, will appear in families and will appear in consumption and economic growth. This is how the budget for accounting banks is put together. As far as your question is concerned, taxes have been used to reduce the VAT rate. I think that basically everyone accepts the principle of reducing the VAT rate and consumption turnover taxes. Of course, everyone wants the public, people, to be able to buy cheaper, so that they can benefit more. [[15.40]] However, I think that this should be done very carefully, because socialist governments have tried the method of unthinking VAT reduction, the point of which was to set up a commando, and when the VAT rate was reduced, inflation would not have decreased but increased, and in the end it was restored. The performance of the economy must be the basis for real VAT reductions in one country. Hopefully, this time will come soon. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-118	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Congressman János Volner. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-119	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let me draw your attention to an economic context that may have escaped your attention. Taxes are typically the source of public expenditure coverage. So why we are talking about taxes in the context of budget expenditure, quite simply because of the need to create the source of these expenditures. And, Mr. Secretary, I have to say, you haven't answered that at all. But it would be very important for this to be the answer, Mr Secretary, because it was your government that put more than 500 billion forints in the pocket of the 10 per cent of the workers who made the most money with the single-key tax system. More than 500 billion forints! We ask for a third of this in basic foods, specifically to help the poorest people, to survive at all the policy that you are pursuing; and I would add, child rearing must also be supported by similar means, because there is a huge problem there too. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-120	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-121	Honourable Congressman, I will tell you, as I told your fellow grouper today, that the government has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of the tax burden in this country. On the one hand, it stands in place in the EU countries because we are in the middle and on the other hand in relation to its own performance, because we have taken over the tax burden with a burden of 41 per cent compared to the level of economic growth, and now it is between 38 and 39 per cent. This has been the last year, and this will be the next year, 2015. So when you say you're trying to show that there's been a significant overall increase in the tax burden in the country, it's simply not true. In particular, this is not true of the personal income tax system, as significantly more people pay less taxes; otherwise, the revenue from the budget almost caught up with the revenue at that time of the high amount of income. I believe that the government is also moving in the right direction with regard to the transformation of the personal income tax system.
u2014-11-03-122	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "What is this strategic agreement about? It's an address. Due to his urgent public mission, Minister István Nagy appointed the State Secretary with the answer. I respectfully ask if you'll accept the person of the responder. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman says she'll accept it. There you go. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There's one question that I actually have some answers to, but now you have two minutes to convince me that that's not what this is about. I see you've managed to conclude a strategic agreement that is actually a hidden party building, which is about Fidesz recruiting new vassals for you. Just a few days ago, Minister Fazekas signed a strategic cooperation agreement with nothing but the CF, and the CF immediately turned to CBA and Coop, and signed such an agreement with them, and they said that they would help rural farmers and that communities would be organised in this way. With regard to this transaction? Is it clearer than the sun? This is about Fidesz and the Lunar Court concluding a contract with each other on grounds of public interest, and I think it is important to clarify a few issues in public, in the Chamber. I begin by saying that this story, as I understand it, started with the CÖF finding the government, and as a result, they will now receive commercial and government support to organise rural farmers. Now, this is obviously going to come from tax dollars. The CÖF stated that they want to work in the spirit of transparency, credibility and consensus. Let us begin with, Mr Secretary of State, to clarify how much money we are talking about, and what kind of money these are, Hungarian taxpayers' forints, EU funds or other resources, yet how the money flows here from the government, from taxpayers to the CF. I would also like to know how this story continued. I understand you've been contacted by the C.E.F.? But what was the reason why the CBA and the Coop were chosen to complete this story? I would like to know exactly what these actors, these actors will do as government partners, what the CF does, exactly what Coop does, and what the CBA will do. Look, I don't have much doubt that these agreements aren't for real farmers, but for those who can be asked for something in return. Possibly Other Politics, however, does not accept that the government serves private and party interests again on grounds of public interest, as we have already been accustomed to. So I expect you to give me an exact answer to my questions.
u2014-11-03-124	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is Mr. István Nagy State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, I must say that no agreement can serve any party interest in any way, but it must be in the interests of cooperation and co-thinking. What is a strategic agreement about? This agreement is a fixed-term contractual relationship that provides for the possibility of direct social consultation on matters of a legislative and strategic nature affecting the given portfolio. It's all about these questions. The predecessor of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Rural Development, has also been at the forefront of the conclusion and expansion of strategic partnerships in the previous government cycle, as we consider social dialogue, the preliminary opinion of the social sphere and its feedback to be very important. This will continue in the future, and this agreement will serve this purpose, as will many interbranch organisations and many other civil society organisations. You are obviously aware that the Minister responsible for preparing the legislation and the concepts underlying it may establish a strategic partnership with organisations that are willing to cooperate with each other, which represent a wide range of social interests in preparing the legislation and ex post opinions in the respective areas of law. The strategic partnership aims to ensure efficiency, openness, respect for the principles of meaningful cooperation, closer cooperation and the most direct implementation of mandatory social consultation. The agreement with the organisation mentioned in your question also focuses on this and, of course, includes direct participation in the assessment of the impact of the regulators already adopted in order to improve the sectors concerned [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the quality of its legislative framework. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-03-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is for Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2014-11-03-127	Dear Secretary of State, But I can't thank you for your answer because you didn't answer the question. I asked you how much money the COF got. You didn't tell me how much money the COF had received. I asked him what source. He didn't tell me what source. I asked him why CBA was chosen or why Coop was chosen. You didn't tell me why these two chains were chosen. I also asked him what they were going to do. He didn't tell me what they were gonna do. However, I can see clearly that, in the form of the CF, an agreement is being concluded with an organisation that, until now, has not been willing to account for the amount of money spent in the service of civility in order to conduct a negative campaign by Fidesz. An organization like this has once again entered into an agreement, and we do not know what it will cost the taxpayers. I'd like to add that back in the day when there was an NCA, there was 7.7 billion in it, and now there's 1.5 billion in NEA, so there's not enough money for civilians, but you're probably filling your own civilians' pockets again. Many other civil society organisations in this country would be able to carry out such tasks. Why did you choose the COF, and how much does the COF get, Mr. Secretary of State?
u2014-11-03-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll be with you for a minute, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-129	My fellow Member, I would warn against the classification of civil society organisations. This has had many consequences both in and out of the house. The keyword is social consultation, as well as continued contacts and cooperation. I do not believe that there is a difference of opinion between the Member and the wallet as regards the importance of the objectives cited in the Treaty, which is why I ask you not to see into the agreement things that are not and refrain from the classification of the Ministry's partnership agreements and partners, because it will never do any good. I'm asking you, whatever questions you have about this, my office is open, and what I know about it, I'd be happy to share with you. That's all I know about this right now. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-03-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The Budapest Assembly will be held this week, but for how long? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, the Member indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-11-03-131	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We know from the news that the City Council will hold its inaugural meeting on Friday. [[15.50]] Of course, this is when people ask questions. For example, how long his mandate will last or whether we will still be in a position to choose a new Capital Assembly in five years' time. There were two reports in the press about this. One is that the mayor will have veto rights at the Metropolitan Assembly. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if that's true. So is the government planning to submit a legislative amendment proposal with this content? And the other, which is perhaps a more serious question, is that you have a so-called city concept, but you have already dealt with this with several other indications, which are basically about whether the inner districts would be placed under the government, thus eliminating the capital government and forming district authorities from the periphery. Dear Secretary of State, The reason I'm asking you this now is because the suggestion seems rather absurd, but maybe it's not because we've witnessed the government where it may be for the past four years? whether it's the order of state, whether it's education or anything else, the health care and all that? It's centralized. However, if this effort is to be taken as a basis, it is possible that this plan will also become a reality. On the other hand, unfortunately, we have found that what you are talking about is usually true. This would, of course, disrupt the unity of the capital and settle the relations in the capital on a completely different basis. The Fundamental Law states that a local government is required to be established in the capital city. So I'm asking you if there's a plan, do you want it? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to amend the Fundamental Law and to make use of such an amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-03-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. To answer the question, I would like to ask the Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The three elections took place this year, and the municipal elections took place. My answer to your question is very simple: the Metropolitan Assembly was elected for five years, so in these next five years, the Budapest Budapest will be run by the Metropolitan Assembly. Those speculations, the questions you raised, the municipal law, the Mötv. before and then they were current, and then the government examined several options before the current municipal law was established. It is true that the reform of the municipal structure of the capital city was also examined by the government at the time, and the concepts raised by you were also discussed. At the same time, the municipal law was adopted, the provisions of the municipal law came into force in its entirety with the current autumn municipal election, so we expect that this five-year cycle will take place according to the rules of this municipal law, and we do not plan either to adopt significant rules amending the structure and structure of the local governments, the powers of the Metropolitan Assembly at all, nor to amend the constitution in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. One-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Bárándy, please.
u2014-11-03-135	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you, Secretary of State, for that? In an unusual way lately? at least he tried to answer the question I asked him. I am relieved to hear that for the next five years, the Metropolitan Assembly will operate in this way. However, the Secretary of State avoided asking whether it would continue to work this way in five years' time, i.e. the Ministry of Interior, the wallet, or even the Fidesz Group, had finally abandoned the plan to introduce such a new concept in five years' time, and that several elections would no longer take place, or whether the Secretary of State's reply concerned only these five years, and we can continue to wonder if you will have such a plan. I would like to see a clear answer from the Secretary of State, that is to say, that I have been permanently abandoned from this plan or not. The other, Mr. Secretary, I would like to remind you that the other half of my question was whether the mayor's veto rights were being planned. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] any changes. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-136	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-137	Thank you very much for the preliminary confidence that, in five years' time, I will be able to reflect on how the Metropolitan Assembly will be formed during the municipal elections and how the Budapest Assembly will continue its activities. As I just said, there's no Mötv on the table right now. changes in this direction. In the new system, municipalities have been elected for five years, the government cycle is four years, so in the way in which the municipal structure develops or develops after the end of the government cycle, I do not wish to respond to that. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? István Apáti: Wow!]]
u2014-11-03-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Let's talk about the victims of the failed war of freedom. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr.István Nagy State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission.
u2014-11-03-139	I'll take it.
u2014-11-03-140	The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-11-03-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We have already talked about one of the fallen freedom fights, since your poor law of land, it seems, must be rewritten and adapted to the needs of Brussels, so that it can become completely inadequate to protect the Hungarian soil. The other failed freedom fight came to light today, as four years ago you were announced here in the House in the midst of a huge ovation to liberate homemade brandy cooking, and it will be possible for the Hungarian people to re-eat this precious and ancient nerd legally. However, this war of freedom has lasted so long, as we can see that Brussels did not approve of this either. Let's just say that the pálinka is a hungaricum, and it is also the most famous and popular Hungaricum. For private cooking, you will levy a thousand-forint symbolic fee; this would not be burdensome yet, and you would not have a serious objection to it if we did not know what horror taxes you would expect from such primitive amounts during an annual increase. This thousand forints is supposed to serve nothing but to find out who has the cooking appliances, have the registration, have the data, and then be able to destroy and increase this rate. If that's not the case, please calm me down, Secretary of State. However, where the bigger problem is already apparent, it is the case of the farmers. We know of more than 700 such tenants, so hundreds of families, who, by the way, have taken on EU funds and subsidies to achieve their dream and to ensure the livelihood of the family, have committed themselves to five years of maintenance, and will not be able to keep their operation profitable. They are facing a major disaster, according to an estimate by the profession, one third of them will close in a year under such conditions, since you have raised their liters from zero to HUF 1670...? the transmitter on the schnapps. It's unmanageable, Mr. Secretary. What are you planning to do about it? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Nagy, State Secretary, is next to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-143	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Dear Parliament, Let us make one thing clear in advance: there is no failed freedom fight, and there are no casualties. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] 'Cause every freedom fight is respectable when we look back at it. All the goals that the Hungarian government has set for these two purposes, I believe, are identical to those of the Hungarian people and are consistent with the intentions that farmers and people in Hungary want to represent and implement. Let's look at the land first. Let me put it this way that both of us stick to our positions, and we will continue to defend both our positions. We consider that both the land law and the pálinka law are exactly EU-compliant, and we will be able to protect it, because there are subsidies behind it, and the land law has also been taken from samples that must stand up to the various criticism aspects of the European Union. And the good news about the Palinkatörgy is that Romania has just recently joined the same Hungarian initiative that we are fighting against Brussels' bureaucrats, and I very much hope that together? Both Hungary and Romania? We'll be able to protect the things of the brandy. I believe that both are of the utmost importance to the Hungarian government, with which it wishes to live, and that its protection will be kept most definitely, to the very last. [[16.00]] On 15 October 2014, the Commission received a formal request in the field, accusing us of breach of obligations and bringing proceedings against us. Hungary has two months to reply to this. These two months will be used to the fullest extent to put all of our argument systems, all of our reasons, into battle lines that will be able to successfully defend our struggle. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of the matter. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry that we haven't heard a word about the payrolls, but there will be a way for Mr. Secretary of State to explain this in a moment. I don't think this 1670 forints extraterrestrial can be taken seriously? And, of course, does the overhead and the use of the cooking itself come to light? That's something someone might think the majority would do, and in this way they'll want to make a legal potion. This will result in a significant increase in the proportion of the nooks. I was wondering if there was an impact assessment on this, if we could get to know this, because I'm afraid it's not. Who will take the risk, the risk of health, of what consequences if we unleash these nooks on the country? What about the 1500 jobs that are calculated to cease as a result of this measure, and who will compensate these Hungarian families, who may have invested decades of work in a brewery, and now they will be forced to close because they simply will not be profitable under such conditions? The unpredictable nature of your tax policy has led to this situation, so please resolve this unsustainable situation immediately. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-147	Dear fellow Member, It is very interesting to accuse us of tax policy being unpredictable, but let me ask you again: was Hungary not the pioneer in this? Wasn't Hungary the first to initiate this freedom for the first time in the world? I think it was precisely Hungary. That we must be able to incorporate this into the European legal order, that is the task of the coming period, and I ask you that before it is alarmed, frightened, so [[István Apáti's intervention.]] By introducing fears, you promote your speech, let me ask you to come back to this issue when we have this part of the tax laws before us, and we can talk about this step by step in particular. And give us a way for the Hungarian government to protect and finish that fight [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what's going on with the schnapps. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Member László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. What does the Government do to implement its decision? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Government adopted Decision No 1870 in November 2013, which contains the following. The Hungarian government has set itself three objectives for the maintenance and modernisation of the Hungarian mining profession with a long tradition, as well as for the development of domestic mining: to increase the national assets necessary for the exploitation of Hungarian mineral assets and to reduce the energy dependency of our country. He called on the Minister of Development to present the necessary measures for the development of domestic mining, the review of the legal environment of mining, as well as the launch of a check-out school in Komló. The latter began, though, not to be mined, but to form 12 mining heavy machinery operators and maintainers. But let's see what else has happened since you made this campaign decision. Since then, have they decided that no further mineral wealth needs to be produced and that it does not need to increase our national wealth, for example, from 31 December in Márkushegy? Don't you think about what families will do to lose their income? You will close the last underground mine in Hungary. According to press reports, White Horse Energy has shut down its uranium and coal projects in Hungary, which seeks to maintain its cash reserves by suspending the company's research. According to the company's annual report, the Hungarian uranium research license expires in March 2016. And what else happened? You have been offered to the government the glaze-south territories [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The right to exploit it, they didn't even answer it. Please answer: how do you intend to implement the decision? What are you going to do about it? Has there been a proposal? Have you negotiated with investors, and how do you intend to help them? Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-03-150	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-151	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In 2013 the government made a decision on certain tasks related to the future development of domestic mining in order to increase national wealth and reduce energy dependence. The main objective of the decision was to review the legal environment of mining, to define measures to assist mining contractors and to restart the training of mining and other mining professions. I ask you to consider in this government decision that 25 years ago, you have had a laugh haunting everyone who spoke of the fate of domestic mining and who has borne his fate. Accordingly, we have drawn up a comprehensive proposal to amend the Mining Act, which we have tabled to the Parliament, and I hope that we will accept it with your support this year. Further legislative amendments have also been prepared, in particular by helping companies wishing to invest in or engage in mining. The review of the legal environment for mining has therefore begun and is underway. The current energy mineral recovery and stock management action plan aims to serve the interests of domestic mining companies. Does the national energy strategy provide for this action plan to ensure the research of energy-enabled domestic mineral resources and the conditions for stock management? And that's very important? to maintain a domestic coal mining culture. Our goal remains to secure domestic mineral assets, the measures in this regard are gradual, the environment, the economy [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and taking into account the opportunities offered by the market. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When and how does the government plan to regulate the detailed provision of pre-school and primary school care for diabetic children? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is generally known that diabetes is a population disease, with the latest data showing that the number of diabetics exceeds 500,000 and will exceed 700,000 by 2025. Unfortunately, we are not doing well in the children's area either, because every year 200-250 children enter the kindergarten gates as diabetics, and those working there also need to think about their placement and care for them. This problem is also very important and very vital, since from 1 September, children from the age of 3 have to attend kindergarten education for at least 4 hours a day, and it seems that there are currently neither physical conditions nor legal conditions available, so they have shortcomings in order to provide adequate care for these children. Thus, for example, in the case of physical deficiencies, it can be said that blood glucose measurements or even insulin administration are not ensured, as this cannot be required by the kindergarten educator, and that, if their meals are provided, such children should be closely monitored to ensure that adequate blood glucose measurements and insulin administration are taken in relation to meals. In addition to the material conditions, there is a deficiency in the legislation that parents do not have the opportunity, unless we buy a notary loophole in which they exempt the child from preschool education until the age of 5, but in this case the parent falls out, the child falls out of the community, so essentially cuts the child away from the right community. Moreover, the legislation is incomplete in that it only says that it provides a healthy and safe environment in its upbringing. So the questions are obvious. By what time and how does the government intend to make sure that children with diabetes are trained and trained properly; and when do you intend to be there for appropriate doctors, teachers, nurses, and why do you want to exclude children with a population disease from kindergarten education with this system? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2014-11-03-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-155	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Public Education Act is a little more detailed than you said, Mr President, since it states that in the institutions, on the basis of the requirement of equal treatment, the child, the student, has the right to receive equal treatment and treatment under the same conditions. This basic principle includes the need to find a solution to specific situations. The Dietary Dietary Dietary Dietary Regulation is contained in the EMMI Regulation on Dietary Health Standards, according to which, after the entry into force of 1 January 2015, all persons in educational and educational establishments who require a diet meal certified by a specialist should be provided with a diet regimen appropriate to their condition. This also applies to the provision of kindergarten and school meals to diabetic children. The question of insulin administration is often raised in diabetic children. 26/1997 on school health care. A ministerial decree sets out the framework for the tasks relating to health care, under which children, pupils' health care is carried out by a school doctor and nurse who provides education, education and training, in a manner agreed with the head of kindergarten or school. It is the task of the school doctor, and I quote: to give a medical opinion in the event of an integrated education of these children among healthy people. So far, the quote from the regulation. And it is the job of the school teacher to help the lifestyle of chronic patients with behavioural disorders. School health services therefore support and support the life of chronically ill children, such as children with diabetes, in kindergartens and schools. Employees of the educational establishment shall be responsible for the detection of risk conditions... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you so much for listening to my answer. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-03-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy, who is good at bleeding out the cafeteria system? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-03-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Not a word is true of what Parliamentary Secretary András Tállai said about tax laws to encourage employment, to keep the tax on labour at a low level. It is not true that more people will be able to earn more money next year with this tax system. With the increased tax burden of the cafeteria, the government faces these objectives: it not only reduces the amount of benefits that can be paid outside the wage, but also significantly increases their tax burden by 43 percent. It does this by not consulting employers, employees' representatives in advance, by conducting any analysis or impact assessment of the impact of the tax increase on income and employment. Trade unions expect cafeteria frameworks to be reduced by 15 percent, as this is how most employers will react to the government's move, so that they do not increase their burden despite tax increases. And workers who are chosen by the employer to eliminate the benefits completely will suffer even worse, because this will result in a significant reduction in our search. It is clear that the government does not understand the meaning and social benefits of the cafeteria, which is why it has been working for years to bleed out the system. But cafeteria could be an excellent tool for economic development. This would require tax exemption, for example, from the former name holiday cheques, voluntary pension and health fund payments, local transport pass, internet subscription vouchers. For example, a new element could be the employer's housing allowance or the family card. Since all reasonable arguments are in favour of promoting and not cutting off benefits outside the wage, my question is why the government is going against this and why it is beating up all well-functioning systems. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-158	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, to reply. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-159	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can say that what I said in the tax law debate is still true today, because the tax law will encourage employers to increase employment, and indeed the taxes on work will not increase, so they will be kept low. Another issue is that we want to reduce it even further. And it is also true that more people will be able to work with the tax system next year. Think of the fact that now 4 million 182 thousand people have jobs, the number of unemployed has fallen by more than 100,000, and we claim that by encouraging the economy, with the targeted support of the European Union, this will continue to increase. What you have said about raising the tax on the cafeteria system does not contradict these expectations and statements, which are targeted by the tax law and budget. It is true that the cost of the cafeteria system, its public burden, will increase, which is also the government's aim to bring the burden of living labour closer to one another and of the benefits granted by the cafeteria. However, the burden of cafeteria is still very far from, let's say, the tax and contribution burden of a wage, since it barely reached half. Thus, the employer can decide what he is doing either to pass on the allowance to the employee with the increased public burden, or to switch it to housing employer support, which has no tax burden, will not be in the future, or what we would very much prefer not to reduce the cafeteria application. Of course, in the hope that the economic performance will be higher, we expect 2.5 percent, but hopefully it will be even more, and in support of this, as I have already said, with the EU's support, it will grow as well. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the performance of the economy and farmers, that they will be able to farm this and that their employees are valued, will continue to provide cafeteria benefits to their employees. Thank you. I'm sorry.
u2014-11-03-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: pace execution? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-11-03-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Győr is one of Hungary's most dynamically developing cities today, the volume of industrial production is constantly increasing year after year, contributing significantly to the performance of the national economy, and the number of companies moving in is increasing, with positive effects for both the city and the region. In parallel with the development of the economy, the development of the road network is inevitable. The biggest problem for transport in Győr for decades is the fact that the construction of the M1 motorway, which avoids the settlement from the south, has not been followed by the construction of the northern bypass road, so that the national highways will continue to run brightly from all directions. According to a declaration signed in October 2010 between the Government of Hungary and the Municipality of Győr County, the road away from the eastern direction of Győr will be built, the so-called main road No. 813. The new road runs from the M1 motorway, which is not in the south, or from the region of main road 81, to the northern direction of the city, to main road 14 leading to the border crossing of Customs Free, so it will be able to lead the major freight and passenger traffic in the north-south direction outside the city. Another important objective of its construction is to alleviate traffic problems caused by the expansion of the international industrial park in Győr and the Audi plant, to achieve them more easily and quickly, and to reduce traffic jams in the city. The new bypass road is planned to be built at three paces. The first phase, which is scheduled to end at the end of August 2015, starts from the junction of the M1 motorway in Győrszentiván and covers the section between the southern circular node of the industrial area of the Győr East, with a length of nearly 4400 metres. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether they will be finished. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Until the end of August 2015, the construction works of the first phase of the main road No. 813, which escapes Győr from the eastern direction, and after that, when the construction of the second phase begins. I look forward to your reply.
u2014-11-03-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[16.20]]
u2014-11-03-163	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government also considers it important to build the eastern bypass road Győr due to its network role and its positive impact on the economy of the city and the region. The transport of the city's industrial area was significantly improved by the so-called small bypass road, which provided the surrounding of the eastern industrial area of Győr in the context of a public investment in 2013. The implementation of Highway 813, also known as the East bypass Győr, is planned at three paces. In the case of the first stage, the business contract has already been concluded, and archaeological exploration is currently under way, so the completion of the project is expected by the end of August 2015. This deadline implies a tight pace; we expect it to be maintained. In the case of the second and third stages of implementation, planning and authorisation plans are being prepared. At present, the implementation of both phases is included in the draft project list to be presented to the government in 2014-2020. We urge that both the second and the third stages be achieved in the EU budget cycle that has just begun. By the way, the Ministry of Development has a new Secretary of State of Győr origin who has been calling for this project, together with Mayor Borkai. I hope that working together will lead to success. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-03-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. Public employment or minimum wage? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, the net value of the minimum wage is approximately HUF 66,500, the net value of the public employment wage is approximately HUF 50,500, so the difference between the two is roughly HUF 16,000. We are constantly hearing from the government that there is a need to distinguish between public employment wages and minimum wage workers. We also hear how public employment has a positive impact on the domestic labour market, that almost everyone now has a job. According to the statistics? Which, unfortunately, doesn't even have a thank-you relationship with reality? new jobs are already uncounted across the country. However, sobering reality shows otherwise. Are they signaling you from the Blurship? Where does Secretary of State come from and I come from? , and from Borsod, i.e. from East Hungary to small and medium-sized enterprises, from the agricultural sector to the light industry, to the manufacturing industry, that they are unable to hire workers to the extent necessary for them. And why not, the workers themselves answer this question, which is to say that they prefer to go to public workers, where there are no or little requirements than minimum wage employees, where their work is more accountable. So the government managed to get people to choose the easier way to make a living, rather than give up nearly HUF 16,000, but they refuse to work for a minimum wage. By increasing numbers of people opting for easier living, small and medium-sized enterprises are put at a competitive disadvantage. They cannot produce their products in time, in sufficient quantity and quality, and they cannot provide their services properly. It cannot be said that this decade has resulted from unsolved structural problems, a phenomenon which unfortunately is one of the bad results of current governance. With people not going to work for a minimum wage, a number of problems arise. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State when the uniform public employment and minimum wage will be introduced. When will the tax-free minimum wage be restored, which was abolished on their entry into the 2010 government? They have the opportunity to do so next year. What is being done to enable small and medium-sized enterprises in Borsodi to employ a sufficient number of employees? Thank you.
u2014-11-03-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Sándor Czomba. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, I would like to note that statistics do not lie, indeed, in the past four years there has been a significant increase in employment and unemployment. There is no doubt that public employment also plays an important role in this. But in your question, I think I'm discovering some oddness. On the one hand, he claims that because of the difference of HUF 16,000, the difference between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, people do not go to work, but at the same time he asks me when the public employment minimum wage and the minimum wage will finally be the same. You feel the difference, don't you? If we put it to the same level, it is in practice that the aid should be worth public employment and that public employment should be in the sphere of competition, and this structure could not be implemented in practice. So we would definitely like to maintain this stairwell in the next period. By the way, you are right, it is admittedly a fact that we also perceive that public employment in certain areas, to some extent, can be counterproductive, let us say, in connection with occasional work in agriculture, or even a poultry processor's owner recently complained to me that he feels that they are not elected because of public employment. That is why we plan to launch programmes in the next period that will help you to exit from public employment into the competition sector, mainly through EU funds, but also through domestic resources, and to carry forward the job-creating proposals and grants in which the most successful ones were the Szabolcsi, the Borsodi and the County Baranya, where micro, small and medium-sized enterprises were able to create jobs in the competition sector to a very significant extent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:.. Never seen improvements in the field of health? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The second Orbán government in 2012 eliminated obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in Körmend, and in Celldömölk active internal medicine and active surgery with a single pen stroke, based on a change of function and efficiency. Government propaganda is trying to distort reality, but people in the countryside, including Vas County, are constantly confronted with decisions that make their everyday life difficult. I find it extremely cynical that, after the measures mentioned above, you are making statements that unprecedented improvements are taking place in the area of health. In the opposition, you have strongly raised your voice against the devastating steps of the Gyurcsány and then the Bajnai government, but in recent years, they have taken measures that are integral to the line started by their predecessors of MSZP-SZDSZ. Before last year, Jobbik protested with every possible means against layoffs. In addition to my speeches in Parliament, we organised a demonstration for the hospital in Körmend and Celldömölk, and we also collected signatures in Körmend. The people in the region stood almost unanimously for the institution, 5 000 people signed the sheets in a very short time, but the government ignored their opinion. I do not dispute the forwardness of the ongoing investments, but the restoration of the terminated classes, especially obstetrics, would be essential in the hospital in Körmend, which is now the site of the Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely. Regrettably, we have recently read statements in the press which are contrary to this and which are based on incorrect data. The rescue station in Celldömölk has been promised ambulance for a long time, but it still has not arrived, but Szentgotthárd's rescue station would also need a new ambulance, even for a long distance from the county seat. Dear Secretary of State, Is there any hope that the third Orbán government will restore the abolished classes in order to provide adequate health care to people in Vas County? Can we count on their promises to make improvements to these rescue stations? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, On the basis of the Semmelweis plan, the government has, over the past four years, adapted the health care system to a large extent by taking into account the interests of patients and, at the same time, bearing in mind the professional and economic effectiveness of care. It has not ceased to be a supply institution, institutions have been transformed, hospitals have expanded with new functions or changed functions, supply facilities and service points have started to operate throughout the country, mainly in the countryside. In addition, the health care system has been developing and investing in hospital infrastructure of HUF 330 billion, which has not been seen in the last 50 years, and is underpinned by internal resources and external EU funding. From 2012 in the celldömölk hospital, as the site of Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely, obstetrics and gynecology operate and the chronic supply capacity remains unchanged. The hospital in Körmend has been operating as the site of the Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely since 2012, and the hospital continues to carry out chronic activities. Since a very significant part of the cases can be carried out within the framework of one-day interventions, the institution continued with the existing one-day, curative and daytime benefits and both institutions extended its overnight benefits. [[16.30]] The capacity reduction service providers have been given the opportunity to re-acquisition previously provided patients in other forms of care. Nearly HUF 15 billion of European Union funds are used to improve the supply, and improvements are also being made at the National Rescue Service. Does the development of emergency care also serve the expansion of the rescue station network? Save the flagship project. The National Rescue Service rescue station network is expanding with 22 new locations, thus increasing the number of rescue stations to 253. The goal, as you know, is to get the ambulances everywhere in 15 minutes. The development of emergency services is also supported by the deployment of 178 new ambulances. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question:, Will the matter of the Debrecen refugee camp not be resolved in this cycle? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Relieved the punishment of difficult refugees who attacked young girls with knives once again drew attention to the problem of the reception station in Debrecen. As you know, last May two Algerian campers attacked two young Hungarian girls, held a knife to their throats and robbed them. But it wasn't the only similar attack in the city. Debrecen are subject to constant harassment, rampage, thefts, and these crimes are committed by refugees moving freely in the city. In recent years, Jobbik has raised his voice many times and demanded that the reception centre be declared closed so that criminals with often unidentifiable personalities are not at their mercy. Unfortunately, our voices have fallen on deaf ears. People in Debrecen still cannot feel safe and, in addition to public safety issues, people's health is at risk, given the Ebola epidemic in Africa. A woman living near the camp experienced the following, and I quote: "I saw with my own eyes that everything in the store was being touched. One of them took the ice cream can out of the fridge, took the lid off, licked it, and then put it back. Such cases are commonplace, and the inhabitants of the area now fear not only their belongings but also their health, with all due respect. Dear Secretary of State, Will this cycle continue to rally on the ground, or will the refugee camp finally be declared closed? Is it true that they intend to open another reception station in or around Debrecen? Every Debrecen wants the institution to close its doors and live in peace. Please act before something tragic happens. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask for the answer, Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's firm position is that strict and consistent action against asylum abuses is justified. To this end, we have submitted to Parliament last year an amendment to the Asylum Act, through which we have established an asylum detention facility. This will enable asylum seekers to be detained, for example, in the interests of public order and public security. We regretted that you did not vote for this amendment to the Asylum Act, either personally, Congressman, or Jobbik's faction. So we do not understand this Pharisee attitude to take action to protect the Debrecen, but when in Parliament we have the opportunity to adopt laws concerning order, public security, the security of the Debrecen, they do not support it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I don't know, Congressman, you're asking the question, but I could ask you why you don't support it. Why is the security of the Debrecen not important to you, honourable Member? Because it seems that the failure to adopt the bill proves that. As for the security of the Debrecen and the question of whether we want to set up or open a new refugee camp in or around Debrecen, my answer is definitely no. We don't have that plan, we don't have that intention. Please don't scare me with this, Congressman. As far as security is concerned, I would like to say and reassure the Debrecen that the police continue to provide enhanced service around the camp, in cooperation with the vigilante and the public sector. From October 1st, the service was confirmed by dog service. As far as health issues are concerned, I would like to reassure the Debrecen that they are safe, because they will undergo a medical examination at the time of entry into the camp, or they will also undergo a medical examination in the event of asylum detention. So please support the security of the Debrecen. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the Act to be submitted. Pál Völner's own motion by our fellow Fidesz Member T/1561. On the parliamentary IT network, all of them could reach it. The Economic Committee's report on the detailed debate as a designated committee is T/1561/3. was given to them. The Commission's amendment, which concluded no detailed debate, was not submitted to the present proposal, nor was it initiated by the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Dear Parliament, I will now ask Mr Pál Völner if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Before I give the floor, Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total period of 10 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting the possible closing phrase. Once these terms are put forward, you have the floor.
u2014-11-03-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The Commission's report on the bill before us informs us that the proposal complies with the House Rule 44. §2 of the Act and the fact that no individual representatives or Commission amendments were tabled to it. However, let me give you a brief description of the main elements of the bill. The proposal is necessary because of the fact that on 3 August 2012 the area of expertise is 748.2012. The entry into force of a Commission regulation requires amendments for harmonisation purposes, which must be passed through the relevant Hungarian laws. Furthermore, national legislation needs to be reviewed due to the emergence of several Council Directives, as national legislation in these areas is no longer justified. The proposal repeals, on the one hand, the provisions on the quality and technical suitability of certain aircraft of EU regulatory competence under EU regulations and, on the other hand, the current regulation for aircraft not covered by the EU Regulation. In addition to the above, an amendment to the Aviation Safety Directive should be introduced into domestic legislation. We are talking about the transfer of dangerous goods by air, which is a complex activity which requires training and testing of relevant knowledge. In addition, more effective official supervision should be established, detailed rules for the transfer of dangerous goods by air should be established and these rules should be allowed to be settled at government level and not to be amended in all such cases. The proposal also empowers airlines transporting goods to third countries to handle the data of the regulated agent and the known supplier. CLXXXIV of 2005 on the peer review of air, rail and water transport accidents and other traffic incidents. Proposals for law contain substantially technical amendments. Since it is important to harmonise legislation to promote rail safety, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-178	Thank you very much. I thank Paul Völner for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, if there is a closing, you will have 7 minutes and 30 seconds at your disposal. I now ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. László Tasó, if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yes, please, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-179	Thank you very much. Just that the government agrees with the proposal, supports it and asks the Parliament to support the adoption of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. [[16.40]] I am asking if anyone would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representing Jobbik, asks for the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has already expressed its position in this regard in the general debate, in which we have also said that we are talking about legislation on harmonisation of laws, and that Hungarian legislation is being adapted to EU standards. This is usually not always supported by Jobbik Movement for Hungary, unless they are in line with Hungarian national interests. In this case, we support it because the safety of transport is certainly ahead in this area, and these changes in legislation, which are included in this amendment, will certainly move transport safety forward. For all these reasons, Jobbik Hungary's Movement supports this legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-182	Thank you, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Pál Völner if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The final vote shall take place between the decisions. Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Our fellow Members, Roland Mengyi and György Balla, have a separate motion T/1371. On the parliamentary IT network, all of them could reach it. The Economic Committee's report on the detailed debate as a designated committee is T/1371/5. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1371/7. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate T/1371/8. Available on the website. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee is T/1371 on 30 October 2014. XL 2008 on gas supply. It discussed a bill amending the law and submitted an amendment and a summary report summing up 27 yes and 8 abstentions. The summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee contains the amendment proposal of the Economic Committee, together with the legal correction of the Legislative Committee. As stated at the meeting, the Commission's amendment amends the legislation on the establishment of transport lines in order to ensure a longer-term security of supply so that the licensing authority, the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, can establish a transmission line by a gas company that is not authorised to operate a transmission system for a limited period of time. Hungary's basic goal is to improve security of supply by all possible means, as multi-wire, source diversification is a balanced natural gas portfolio for our country. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment only broadens the possibility of who is entitled to participate in the physical implementation of the natural gas transmission line, but this will make the future operational issues separate, and it will still require the acquisition of a permit to operate the transmission system. Accordingly, this new authorisation does not affect the competence of the Community institutions or the competent Hungarian authorities to certify and allow the transmission system operator to operate, and is therefore also in line with the legal requirements of the European Union. The same legal solution as the proposed amendment is in force in Bulgaria and the Czech Republic, where there is no need to obtain a system operator permit to build a pipeline, i.e. separate management of cable construction and system operation permits. Finally, I would like to note what the opposition has said with a fondness that the amendment can help the implementation of the South Stream, but the construction of its domestic section is, of course, largely dependent on the construction of the Bulgarian and Serbian pipelines. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now going to ask Mr Mengyi Roland if he wishes to take the floor on behalf of the rapporteur. I would also like to inform you that a period of ten minutes is available to speak in the debate and to close in any event. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The initials? as is the Commission's proposal to amend the detailed debate? It is only for the security of gas supply in Hungary, and given that it is in the interests of all of us, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have more than nine minutes at your disposal at any time. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks, that's gonna be tough.]] I am now asking Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, whether he wishes to take the opportunity to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. András Aradski's signal:]] Yes, he wants to live. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-187	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Government supports the adoption of a single proposal submitted by the Legislative Committee. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have been registered in writing; first, Mr Dénes Galambos, from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us is the 2008 XL on gas supply. it contains a legislative amendment aimed at facilitating the establishment of storage stocks in order to increase the security of domestic gas supply. In view of the Russian-Ukrainian situation, it is appropriate to establish a regulatory environment that encourages market participants to store in Hungarian storage facilities. This proposal also serves this purpose when, while maintaining the control activities of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, it clearly states that the transfer of ownership of natural gas in a storage facility operated as a public customs warehouse does not constitute a commercial activity under the law on the supply of natural gas, i.e. there is no need to carry out an authorisation procedure. The amendment will also make it clear to foreign gas companies that they can store natural gas in Hungary and sell the stock thus stored later. Is the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee to the bill? also in the same way as the amendment of the authorisation regulation with the legislative intention under the bill? to enhance the security of gas supply in Hungary. According to the existing sectoral rules, only companies authorised to operate a transmission system can invest in the construction of transmission lines in Hungary, but only those already equipped with a system operating licence could have received a system authorisation, thus creating a high entry barrier to infrastructure investments that significantly improve the supply of natural gas, which distort free competition at European level. Accordingly, due to its nature, the current domestic legislation is not in line with the EU energy directives. The Commission's amendment amends the 2008 XL on gas supply in order to ensure longer-term security of supply. Act No.3 that the regulation on the establishment of a transmission line is also allowed by the licensing authority, the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, to a natural gas company which is not authorised to operate a transmission system for a limited period of time. [[16.50]] Hungary's basic goal is to improve security of supply by all possible means, as the ability to create a balanced natural gas portfolio of several pipelines and resource diversification is important for the domestic economy. It is necessary to draw attention to the fact that the amendment only broadens the possibility of who is entitled to participate in the physical implementation of the natural gas transmission line, but this will make the future operational issues separate, and it will continue to require the acquisition of a permit for transport and system operation. Thank you very much for your attention, and I would like your support for this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-190	Thank you very much. Do I respectfully draw the attention of the members of the press behind me to their activities in such a way that the staff of the notaries and the Parliamentary Office are not disturbed? Okay? Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The next speaker was Ms Zsuzsanna Szelényi, from the independent Members, in a two-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-03-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The amendment before us is no longer the first in recent weeks, but a further step towards serving the interests of Russia in Putin. The Government of Viktor Orbán has been working for a long time to turn Hungary against Europe, and the entire Hungarian people joined it by referendum. It is particularly worrying that turning away from Europe and serving Russian interests are taking place at a time when a new Cold War is emerging in the world. Russia in Putin is expanding spectacularly, and the European Union and the United States are taking ever more decisive steps to stop this push. The interest of Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz government in sabotaging these efforts is incomprehensible. The government is making trouble by refusing to name its officials involved in corruption and clear themselves of the American charges. Russia is interested in bringing the Iron Curtain down again in Europe, and we Hungarians are facing the West. One of the tools for this is the development of energy dependency, such as the implementation of the South Stream. The amendment before us now does not simply allow Hungary to start building the South Stream that does not comply with EU rules, but Fidesz politicians are trying to accelerate this process explicitly, despite the fact that there are a number of open issues in this case and the EU is holding back this project as part of sanctions against Russia. I am amazed at the comments that speak about security of supply, while allowing companies that do not have appropriate permits to build. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It is incomprehensible why the Hungarian government thinks that later the Russians will not have their own interests in mind when setting the price of gas. [[They're shutting off his mike.]]
u2014-11-03-192	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, I've allowed 15 seconds further, but the time frame is so ugly, so I'm forced to have you finish it now. We will continue with the speeches. From the LMP Group, Mrs Bernadett Szél is next. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-03-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State and fellow Members, First of all, let me say that I find it amazing that in such an important decision, the representatives of the governing parties, with one sentence, and my fellow Member, Mr Pigambos, will take three minutes to justify this whole decision. I think that if at some point, you should now take advantage of the time frame of the Fidesz-KDNP and tell us what you are really asking the Hungarian Parliament for. Not so long ago, in 2008, when the Hungarian-Russian agreement on the construction of the Hungarian-Russian section of the South Stream gas pipeline was signed in the presence of the then Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány and Russian Head of State Vladimir Putin, then the Fidesz, which is here now, betrayed. You told those people they were traitors. And in fact, the project has not changed since then, the South Stream was still about and is now about Hungary's continuing dependence on Russian gas. Instead of what? Instead of alternative gas sources, or what we say is diversification of energy use, i.e. a little more diverse form of energy use. It's interesting to see what the current Prime Minister said back then. In European Voice, Viktor Orbán said: "The state-owned Russian Gazprom is not a real market player at all, it seems its main aim is to acquire geopolitical positions in European distribution systems, not to maintain extraction infrastructure. This quote also comes from the Prime Minister:. The goal of the new government must not be less than to create Hungary's energy independence in 20 years, as it is one of the most important elements of its sovereignty. One of the biggest challenges of the Hungarian national economy is the dependence on imported energy, which is also a serious vulnerability in financial terms. No country can be strong if its energy supply is completely vulnerable. It seems that Viktor Orbán, who worked in the opposition at that time, forgot to talk to Viktor Orbán, who is now in government, about what is energy security and what is the priorities of foreign policy. What's happened since then? I would like to remind you that not so long ago at the MVM headquarters, Csaba Baji, the state MVM Zrt. President-CEO and Deputy CEO of Russian Gazprom, Alexandr Medvedev signed the final investment decision on the Hungarian phase of the South Stream gas pipeline, and previously Viktor Orbán personally sat down with Aleksej Miller, CEO of Gazprom, and spoke about the implementation of the South Stream, stressing that this is in line with the interests of both countries, and also with the Union. As to what the Union thinks, Mr Orbán would have the opportunity to make sure that if, let us say, he looked a little west and read the Union's statements on this. This is particularly embarrassing because there is a European energy security strategy, which the Hungarian government also voted for, and in this strategy they call dependence on the Russian energy market the most important energy security challenge. The climate summit was not so long ago, we all know that there, starting from increasing cross-border capacities, much has come up through mutual assistance, precisely so that we can reduce dependence on Russian markets. What are you guys doing compared to that? Here is our fellow Member, Mr Mengyi Roland, who I was less aware was so keenly interested in energy policy, but now he unexpectedly pleased us with a proposal that practically allowed Gazprom to use the reservoirs in Hungary. Look, it's a complete irrationality. You long ago justified, not so long ago, that we have to buy these gas reservoirs at a price, that this will provide security for Hungarian people and that we have something to heat in winter. How's that gonna happen if we put gas in it for the Russians? I think that it will not be good for the Hungarian people, but for the Russians, but why the Hungarian people pay for this, and why with the authority of the Hungarian government, it is very difficult for me to understand this. And the other part: the amendment of the Economic Commission has arrived, who now has less reason to do so, and is, in practice, voted under the radar so that anyone can build this section of the South Stream here in Hungary. I believe that both proposals, both amendments, serve clear Russian interests and the interests of Gazprom, and I find it outrageous that this will in practice ensure that the construction of the South Stream in Hungary can be avoided from the control of the Hungarian authorities. You have spoken quite little, but I would like to give you an opportunity to speak more, so I will ask you a few questions. Now, when Russia is practically at war with Ukraine, and in the conflict gas and gas-related extortion have been used as a weapon, let me ask you why you want to give the Russians more influence on the Hungarian gas market than ever before. My second question is why it was necessary to buy the Russian-owned MOL shares and the gas storage companies on a rather overpriced basis. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If this is also a favor to the Russians, and I would also like to know how to continue the economic freedom fight against the Western world while continuing to serve Russian interests enthusiastically.
u2014-11-03-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Before I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, thank you for your work so far, I will give the chair to Vice-President István Hiller. [[17.00]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-11-03-195	Welcome back. We'll get back to work. Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács has applied for a statement. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-03-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Is this law specifically designed to facilitate gas supply, to ensure its technical and legal potential, compared to this? To our great surprise? the opposition speeches, I believe, were most like the classic joke, when everyone seemed to have the same idea; the joke is known to everyone. The point is, I think that, after all, this is not about President Putin, nor about the great Russian Empire, but about Hungary's gas supply. Consequently, when I am still listening to the speakers here, I have the silent belief that it is really true slowly that they are so convinced? By the way, do I respect your conviction? opposition politicians who do not want water energy, do not want nuclear energy, and they do not want gas energy, and they probably want to leave the fate of Hungary's energy supply to the winds. I believe that a responsible government must guarantee energy supply and guarantee energy supply from where this energy exists and from where it can reach Hungary. So, if there's something to investigate about this law? Because I didn't speak up because of what my fellow opposition politicians said? It should be examined whether this type of facilitation affects in some way the direct owners who are affected by the pipeline. Or does this affect mining rights at all, I think it is not, and this is very important; or does it affect their safety? I also don't. Consequently, the characteristics of this law that are now ahead of us serve a single purpose, this needs to be clarified, and this is the creation of simpler and faster gas supply conditions. I think if there was another way, if there was one? We've talked about this so much. ? places from which our gas supply could be guaranteed in a different direction, the government would obviously be informed in this direction. So far, the only thing that has been achieved is that there have been pipeline plans that will certainly not cost any gas. I believe that, when the government is trying to ensure a secure supply of energy, I believe that this is not an opposition and not a government issue, this is a national issue of the country, and this must be guaranteed, and I believe that this national issue can be supported by greens, browns, whites, all kinds of people, with a calm spirit in all colours. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-197	Thank you very much. Congressman Bertalan Tóth asked for the floor, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth looking at the background of an amendment proposal, a bill, and also a historical overview, since this proposal itself appears as a motion by its own representatives in the Parliament, and the Economic Committee makes an amendment to this proposal, which rewrites the Hungarian landline rules in very large volumes and details, and the law itself brings a completely new institution into the gas storage system in Hungary. It is very interesting how the government stays away from this story, as it does not come here as a government proposal to the Parliament, but as an individual representative in a motion. Another part of the historical overview is that? I would also like to refer to the words of my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács? It is somewhat nuanced that they talk about security of supply and hide this whole amendment behind the concept of security of supply. I'm just asking why you weren't interested in security of supply when in 2011 you reduced the level of saturation of the so-called strategic reservoir from 1.2 billion cubic metres to 615 million cubic metres, and then, for years, your minister, Mrs.László Németh, extended the deadline for reloading it, and thus managed to ensure that cheap gas imported through Austrian connection could be revalued by offshore companies. This gas did not enter the reservoirs in Hungary, but this offshore empire, István Garancsi, as we have already found out, Viktor Orbán's cashier made very good money over these three years for pushing back nearly HUF 100 billion. And you realize then that there is a problem with security of supply, as you put it, because you had to make a tax-paying capital increase of 100 billion at the Hungarian Electricity Company in order to buy gas and at least start charging gas reservoirs at some level. Obviously, you weren't interested when you bought the E.ON gas reservoirs at double or triple prices. We know the expert opinion on the risk of this purchase, and we know a 600 billion-dollar number that the press has aired here. And then you didn't care about the security of supply that these reservoirs contained very little gas, so when you negotiated, and when this great deal was done, you didn't deal with security of supply. Thus, by 1 October of this year, the level of gas storage capacity was barely higher than 50 per cent, while other EU countries or even in our immediate environment, if we look at it, exceeded 70-80 per cent or even 90 per cent. Yes, I know the example of how to imagine this, that more gas is coming to Hungary in larger reservoirs, but it is always the daily extraction, which is possible at this time, so these gas reservoirs at this level, at the 50 percent level, would not have been able to ensure absolute security of supply. The meeting of Viktor Orbán and Gazprom's CEO will take place on 22 September, and we will suddenly close the gas to Ukraine, citing that security of supply, we will bring in this gas law, which we still do not know how exactly it will function as a public customs warehouse, so that Gazprom can store the 700 million cubic meters of gas here; I indicate, tax-free, so since it does not need those permits, therefore it does not need to be taxed here, it will remain the property of this gas, and here it will actually do what it wants to do with it. Then the Economic Committee's proposal for an amendment will come in, which will allow the South Stream pipeline to start operating here by circumventing the European Union rules, and the preparation and construction of this pipeline can begin. And a few days later, as much as they deny it, the leadership of the Hungarian Electric Works itself announced that this would begin. You can refer to other countries here, but the head of Electricity said that this investment will begin. The MSZP, as I mentioned, does not have a problem with the increase in the utilisation of domestic reservoirs, as this is important, but by the fact that the government is dilettant, inaccessible, hasslesome, and is trying to compensate for the unnecessary risk of transferring the benefits of cheap gas to offshore companies, and this amount of gas has not entered the reservoirs. Gazprom shouldn't have made a special deal with Gazprom in September, and Gazprom shouldn't have been put in a position to allow it to use the reservoirs in Hungary as a public customs warehouse free of tax. And Hungary, as a Member State of the EU, should not seek to circumvent the common rules on the EU's single energy market, but this is precisely what the amendment to build the South Stream aims at. I'd like to ask if I can get an answer to that in the closing sentences, who will operate the pipeline built by Gazprom. Why does the government not settle this issue with the EU before promising anything to Gazprom? We still don't know how a public customs warehouse will be a storage facility, who will appoint the holder of the licence, how long he has to get the permit. We do not know who owns the gas stored in Gazpromé or the Hungarian Electric Works. And we don't even know how much tax revenue the state is losing by granting a discount. I hope that this will be answered in the context of the final debate. We will not support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-03-199	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli, the representative of Jobbik, asked for the floor. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2014-11-03-200	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, as has been the case so far, continues to consider during the negotiation of a bill how important or how important this bill is for Hungarian national interests and how useful or useless it is. It seems that Jobbik is once again acting as the only responsible opposition party [[Deficiencies and interventions in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] When, with Hungarian national interests in mind, rather than unilaterally committed in any direction, he judges a question, as all opposition parties, apart from us, do, because there is a completely obvious and unilateral Euroatlantic dependence on all other opposition parties, while Jobbik has always said that only and only Hungary's interests are important and that one-sided dependence must be balanced, and what is important for Hungary must always be borne in mind. That Gazprom can store 700 million cubic meters of gas in the Hungarian gas reservoirs? What's the technical implementation of this thing, we're just gonna let it go? It is obviously in Hungary's interest and the European Union's interest. For who did Gazprom use that gas, and whose gas it stores, is it true that it owns it, but in gas reservoirs in Hungary? It is obvious that it serves security of supply issues, because regardless of the situation in Ukraine, that gas is already in the reservoirs in Hungary and can be used and sold. It's also the South Stream pipeline. What a double game and what a two-faced policy the European Union is also pursuing on this issue, the Southern Stream gas pipeline seems to be more of an obstacle or obstacle to this project on the part of the European Union, even though the Germans have implemented their own small gas pipeline, which transports gas directly from Russia under the name of Nord Stream. What gas did Hungary and the surrounding countries return to Ukraine when the Russians closed the gas taps? It's obviously Russian gas. So this also shows the duality of this thing; and in other areas of energy policy, Hungary is forced to close its coal mines and coal power plants - obviously on environmental grounds? While in Germany coal power plants are being opened so that they can somehow replace energy by exiting the otherwise nuclear market. Or, for example, other countries of the European Union could be cited as examples. But staying in the gas market, it is clear and clear that Hungary would have an interest in the implementation of the South Stream gas pipeline. We are seeing the situation in Ukraine, and we do not know how it will turn out in the coming months. Winter is here, we can now say that there is enough gas in our gas reservoirs so that we can provide the Hungarian population with proper natural gas even in the event of a crisis. However, it took quite a few parliamentary speeches here too, and it seemed that the government had to be pushed around a little bit, because the uploading of gas reservoirs started very slowly. Months ago, there was a question of whether we would have enough gas in the reservoirs in the winter, from which the Hungarian population could be supplied; I would note this in brackets. So, in summary? And maybe I won't tell you a secret about it? Jobbik will support both the summarised amendment proposal and the original proposal on the basis of one reason: because it serves Hungary's security of supply and Hungary's national strategic interests. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Congressman András Aradszki has applied for a statement. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Is there a lot of sidelines to this bill that you're proposing? What did I tell you? The government supports me, even things you never really thought about. I was surprised to hear that this bill came to mind that South Stream and Gazprom. Please respectfully, in this House, for the first time a bill or a law on South Stream has been tabled by the MSZP [[Zoltán Grimlock: You said we were traitors!]] they have concluded an interstate agreement with the Russians aimed at establishing the South Stream. [[Intervention in the lines of the MSZP: What is the problem with this?]] And all that then? Shall I signal Congresswoman Bernadett Wind? When there was still a very good chance that the Nabucco pipeline would be built, it would have been built from an independent source and avoid Russian risky areas. Do I indicate that this step of the then Hungarian government, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai tandem, did not work to make Nabucco a pipeline, but to dissuade investors, doubt the return of Nabucco, create a competitive position in which? was Viktor Orbán right then? it is not possible to compete with a non-market operator, whereas Nabucco was a project compiled by market participants. So the fact that we do not now use Azerbaijani gas and no other gas from independent sources and it does not come to Hungary via an independent pipeline is due to the fact that in 2008 or 2009 the Soviet and Russian friendly MSZP [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Also.]] Or both, he stabbed the Nabucco in the back. And now, when, in this difficult situation, which has developed here in Central and Eastern Europe, we are trying to protect Hungarian interests, we are trying to find a solution that is best suited to Hungarian interests, they say that this is not necessary. I must be honest with you that this raises concerns in many ways, but I am not a fan of conspiracy theories, despite the fact that there may even be conspiracy. Mr Bertalan Tóth and Mrs Bernadett Szél, it has already been said in this House today that if accusations are made, please add the evidence. Find the law enforcement authorities according to the laws in force and file a complaint against any claims made here. Or do not erod this serious intention to ensure that Hungary's gas supply is secure in 2014-2015. I believe that this proposal, which lies ahead of us, will stand the test of time, because our gas supply has already increased significantly, we can already say that even if any irregularities occur in the Ukrainian transit, Hungary will survive the winter, the Hungarian economy will be able to produce, the gas supply and heating of Hungarian residents will be assured. I also have to say that a number of measures have been taken by the government over the last few years: it has facilitated the use of the system, provided financial conditions for the purchase of gas for commercial purposes, and we are going to continue to expand the possibilities, as we are going to create more favourable conditions for storage by requiring the natural gas system operator to provide uninterruptible capacity insurance in case the relevant gas trader wants to store it in storage. Let me shed some light on it professionally, although sometimes I see from the comment that these words are completely unnecessary, because the profession is not very important in this House, at least from part of the opposition, and I must reiterate that Jobbik is taking a responsible opposition attitude on this issue, as opposed to the LMP, the independent and the MSZP. So what we are talking about here is that the Hungarian gas storage capacity is less than or less charged than the other neighbouring countries. I told Congressman Bertalan Tóth the other day, but he might learn: if we put 4 litres of wine in a 10 litre jar, he has a 40 per cent charge, if he is 5 litres, 80 per cent. Hungary has 10 litres compared to the other neighbouring countries, and the quantity we have achieved so far is sufficient; if we translate the quantity stored for one person, it is much higher than the German, Austrian or Czech stored capacity. [[17.20]] Even a thought about this can be built from a pipeline in the absence of a permit to operate the transmission system. This, I ask, was a very strict regulation when it was adopted in 2009 by the government led by the MSZP. I don't even know why they made such strict regulations. [[István Tukacs: What do you think? ? Dr. István Józsa: For professional reasons!]] There is less regulation in Austria, the Czech Republic and Bulgaria. [[Dr. István Józsa: There is no pipeline!]] The regulation is similar, so we do not avoid authority authorisation, according to the bill, which was formulated by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee, and this transport pipeline building permit also requires the consent and permission of the Energy Office, and this is only for a limited period of time. I suppose the aim of the legislator, the aim of the author, is to speak for a period of time when this pipeline can be built. There may also be a debate, honourable Members, as to whether it makes sense to build a pipeline. They say there's no tourism in place of X. Why no tourism? [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Time!]] That's because there's no hotel. There is no other gas here, there is no gas from other sources because there is no good pipeline, there is no pipeline that avoids the risk of Ukraine, and in all respects it would be more beneficial for the safe availability of the gas supply in Hungary. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Time, time!]]
u2014-11-03-203	Secretary of State, please, respectfully, stop.
u2014-11-03-204	On this basis, Mr President, I request your support for the adoption of the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-03-205	Mr István Tukacs, member of the MSZP faction, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-206	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Don't distract me. Don't distract me, stop it! These are two tricks you can't explain. One trick is to rename a gas storage facility as a public customs warehouse, and the other trick is to subtract gas pipeline construction from strict regulation. That's it, that's it! Although I know there are a number of professions whose representatives like to fool the layman, don't do that. Because everyone understands what this is about. Don't tell me it's in the name of the profession that others don't understand. Secretary of State, we understand. We see what's going on, we know. I would like to state the following. First of all, if you wanted security, you'd be uploading commercial reservoirs in the summer. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right!]] It's that simple. Don't you have to spell out that this is why you have to resort to such a complicated solution, see the public customs warehouse? Hasn't the world ever heard anything like this before? 'Cause you need to recharge the reservoirs. It was supposed to be recharged in the summer, that's safety. What's happening now? The gas stored there at the public customs warehouse is not ours, that Gazprom is still on paper, it will be sold to someone who is a trader, not sure for us, but if we do, it may not be at a reasonable price. Have you done nothing but exclude this quantity from taxation? Because it doesn't pay taxes. Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, you know very well that the point of these rules, such as the rules on the construction of pipelines, was to harmonise professional and, by the way, territorial, regional and perhaps national interests. Now, to say that this was a mistake and to take it out, there is nothing more to suggest than that the reason for this change is facilitated and the facilitation is addressed. By the way, we know that you guys are happy to do custom-made legislation. All right, I just want to ask you what you were discussing on 22 September when the Prime Minister negotiated with the Chairman of the Gazprom Board of Directors. Is the information public, Mr. Secretary? If so, I'll ask you. Dear Secretary of State, Please, a little more modest. Okay? More modestly, more modestly, because these two changes that Roland Mengyi made as an anointed priest of the profession, let's say, and the Economic Commission has spammed with another, this is not about anything else. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] It's like a company ordered from our country, which I'm not proud of.
u2014-11-03-207	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[Lajos Kepli reporting.]] Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-208	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to add so much more because it was inexactly said, perhaps from the speaker of the Legislative Committee, that, as you said, the implementation of the South Stream is necessary because of resource diversification. Obviously, what is needed here is diversification of transport routes, because the same Russian gas is coming through Ukraine and the South Stream gas pipeline, which is again not a disadvantage, because we have to distinguish the two. Obviously, if the Nabucco project had any reality? By the way, I don't think he was born at the moment, given the foreign policy situation and other circumstances? It would have been a source diversification, because gas would have come from another source in Hungary. This means only diversification of transport routes, which is important, and I will say it again, as I said in my previous speech, especially now in the context of the fluidity of the situation in Ukraine, so that natural gas will always arrive safely through Hungary and Hungary to Europe. So it is in the interest of the European Union, too, if, in the face of various transatlantic pressures, they do not try to prevent them from thinking with their common sense, it is obvious that the European Union should also support the implementation of this project. If there were another source, if there were another realistic opportunity to obtain gas from other sources for Hungary, Jobbik would also support it. That's a good point. After all, we are not committed to the Russian natural gas source, but to Hungary's diversification and independence of energy as much as possible. If I did, for example, as natural gas arrives in southern Europe from Algeria or other sources, we would have such a source available and economically capable of developing, we would support it with all our means, as we will support in the future the proposals and solutions that serve Hungary's energy independence. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-03-209	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you again if you'd like to say something at the expense of the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I'll ask the authors if they'd like to speak. [[Dr. Roland Mengyi reporting.]] I can see that Congressman Mengyi is indicating that he is. Congressman, you have nine minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I continue to ask that everyone support this proposal in the interests of security of supply. However, I would like to respond to criticism in a few sentences. First, independent Congresswoman Szelényi has mixed up some conspiracy international systems with this simple amendment. I would like to indicate that Hungary is not characterised by turning away from the EU, we are full members, we are allies, we are culturally and politically part of the West, and this is not a bill representing the interests of Putin Russia, but it represents Hungary, the interests of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy. I would also like to continue here with Mrs Bernadett Wind. We represent Hungarian interests, not Russian interests, as this bill is about filling up Hungarian reservoirs and the possibility of uploading market players in Hungarian reservoirs, and given that this is the case, the gas is already in Hungary, so it is clearly in Hungary's interest. Similarly, the amendment made by the Economic Committee does not avoid the procedure or powers of the European Union or the Hungarian authorities to authorise the operation or operation of the building. With this only the relevant 2009/73. We can and want to comply with the EC Directive. I would also like to point out to Mr Tóth that his questions would typically be answered only after the adoption of the law and the implementing rules relating to the law. However, given that the amendment is not about the role of producers, suppliers or traders or operators, it is only partly encouraging market participants in the storage process, for a storage fee, so it is not about free of charge, and partly about a possible construction, so its questions are not timely at all. In view of this, I continue to ask the Parliament to support the amendment. Thank you very much. [[17 .30]]
u2014-11-03-211	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the votes will take place between the decisions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the proposal for an amendment. The submission was made in T/1507. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/1507/4. was given to them. T/1507/6. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate T/1507/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. You have 15 minutes tops, Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-212	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee on October 30, 2014 is T/1507. on Air Transport, 1995 XCVII. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport It discussed a bill amending the law and submitted a proposal for amendment, with 22 votes in favour and 7 abstentions, and a summary report. The summarised amendment contains the amendment proposal of the Economic Committee, which was purely legal, so there was no debate at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, just as the proposed bill was not at the centre of political battles. This is no wonder, since the proposal contained nothing more than the entry into force of Commission Regulation (EU) No 748/2012 of 3 August 2012 laying down implementing rules for the airworthiness and environmental certification of vehicles and related products, parts and appliances and certification of design and production organisations, requiring amendments for harmonisation purposes, which need to be implemented through the relevant Hungarian laws. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support T/1507. a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-213	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State László Tasó. Before I give the floor to you, Mr Secretary of State, I must draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of ten minutes to speak in the debate and to present a possible closing phrase. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-214	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, All I would like to add to today is that the Government supports what is contained in the proposal, because, as has been said, it is technical amendments and conceptualization. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-215	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Economic Committee does not wish to present a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to tell you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First, I would like to give the floor to Member Paul Völner, Fidesz, as the speaker who had spoken in advance. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: He is not here.]] He's got little to say for the reason that he's not in the room. So I call on Congressman Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, as a representative asking for a normal word. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-216	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Is this about one of those laws? Has this been clarified in the general debate and mentioned several times? , which needs to be amended due to harmonisation of laws. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has expressed its position in many discussions that in these cases we always take national interests into account, and if the EU rules may conflict with national interests, we always put national interests first, and we do not support the EU rules on harmonisation which conflict with the Hungarian national interests. In this case, however, we have seen in this draft legislation that there is no such collision here. We consider the safety of transport to be very important, in particular, the bill deals mostly with aviation safety. These legislative amendments, which are included in this document, are essentially conducive to air traffic, air transport and should therefore be supported. In general, when we look at passenger traffic and traffic safety? and the safety of air traffic traffic? In general, two principles conflict with each other: on the one hand, the restriction of personal freedoms and, on the other, the safety of passenger traffic. So, obviously, we need to find the right medium and harmonisation here so that they do not conflict too much. In order to ensure the safety of passenger traffic, personal leave should not be excessively restricted, but the total safety of passenger traffic is also necessary. In the present case, this regulation does not contain any restrictions on personal freedoms, in particular those relating to passenger traffic safety, or a very large part to professional standards that are clearly extremely important to comply with. On this basis, since there is no political relevance to this, there are only technical and technical requirements, and we consider it acceptable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-217	Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'm gonna ask if there's anyone else who wants to talk to you about the remaining time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] No. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State says no. In this case, the votes will take place between the decisions, I indicate. Dear Parliament, We now have a motion to negotiate a series of requests for inclusion. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/18 initiating a change in law Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who, on behalf of the authors, would like to speak within a five-minute time frame. Mr President Novak, from the Jobbik Group, points out. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-03-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Already on the day of the Parliament's inaugural session, Jobbik presented a bill against political crime, the last proposal of which is here for you to make a decision after all of them have been swept off. The final phase of this last proposal can now be decided, because indeed, the Fidesz majority of the Justice Committee and even the opposition representatives have swept down the proposal to clear the dual citizenship of Members. For example, MSZP MEPs voted against it despite the fact that earlier on the Simon Gábor case, in connection with his famous passport to the Banana Republic, Zsolt Molnár himself, the MSZP chairman of the National Security Committee, proposed that this issue should indeed be clarified. He said that all Members of Parliament should make it public whether they have a nationality other than Hungarian. Well, here is this proposal, which, unfortunately, after his statement, initiative, and bathe in the media, was voted down by the representatives of the MSZP. And we have this proposal before us, in a somewhat house-breaking way, late, because even though we submitted it on the day of the inaugural session, and even though the Justice Committee should have judged it within 30 days, let alone not judging it within 30 days, it did not judge it in a quarter. This happened after more than four months, so you were forced to make our proposal, our complaint? writing a little parliamentary press history? The Judicial Committee shall condemn itself. This, according to the Assembly Information Centre, has never been in the history of the National Assembly to be condemned by a committee. The Justice Committee was able to do this because it had failed. [[17.40]] Unfortunately, he could have done this without consequences, just as unfortunately Members could have done the failure to comply with the law, which, unfortunately, is also without consequences. This is nothing more than a declaration of possible dual citizenship. After all, it has been almost two years since I wrote a letter to all Members of Parliament in the previous term, in which I asked them to be informed whether they have any nationality other than Hungarian and, if so, what they have. Dr. Attila Péterfalvi, President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, confirmed Dr. András Jóri's previous statement by letter to the Members of the time that he was responsible for data protection? And now listen, because it's short? data relating to the dual nationality of Members of Parliament are public personal data in the public interest. This means that the Members themselves are obliged to provide information on the dual citizenship of Members as public service holders to anyone. So I also recently confirmed the data protection commissioner's position by sending out this official resolution, and yet the vast majority of the Members of Parliament are ignoring his legal obligations, Viktor Orbán himself, László Kövér himself, leading the lead in breaking the law and breaking the law without consequences, as, unfortunately, there was no sanction in favour of this legal obligation in the event of failure to comply with it, which is why, unfortunately, it seems that the Members of Parliament, who should be at the forefront of complying with the law, themselves, are destroying the law they themselves have made. We therefore have to, because unfortunately, only Jobbik representatives have responded to my request for data in the public interest, so we are now forced to propose a legal sanction. Not too serious, don't be alarmed, we are merely suggesting, as with the obligation to make a declaration of assets, that if they fail to do so, they should not exercise the rights of the Member or receive remuneration. So add to the obligation to make a declaration of property with a question that has many international examples, otherwise with even more serious sanctions, so that they have to declare, not just, let's say, school education or language skills, as we currently know, that it can be found on the National Assembly's website, but that they have to declare any other nationality. Indeed, when Jobbik appeared here at the National Assembly, and on the day of the inaugural session of the previous term, some people set the Israeli pin at this festive session, or when they voted in favour of the Israeli Association Treaty...? but we could say many other international examples, the saleability of the Hungarian land as an inexplicable decision that you voted for, unfortunately, honourable pro-government representatives, in a way that is synonymous with treason, we will find no other explanation but to serve foreign interests for some other reason. That is why we want the Hungarian people to see clearly at last, so we propose that it should be mandatory and sanctionable if a Member does not comment on any other nationality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-219	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I would like to give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP, who had predicted her intention to speak. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-220	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The background and motivation of this law is inconclusive, and this makes it impossible to consider its support in substance, therefore the proposal is not supported by the MSZP fraction. On the one hand, he wants to solve a problem that does not exist, because targeted knowledge is still public today, as the author acknowledges. At the same time, it reflects and strengthens a preconceived thinking that pulls back and blocks Hungary. The foreign instigation, I see, is a point in which Jobbik and Fidesz seem to understand each other quite well, they should probably have a conversation between themselves about this highly expired record. There is a particularly strong proposal from Jobbik, including Mr Gyöngyösi, who, two years ago, specifically proposed the listing of Jewish origin between the walls of this House. By the way, while we are at it, Jobbik could actually have a reason to clarify its own involvement in the interests of other countries. For example, Mr Gyöngyösi, who took part in the control of the so-called elections in East Ukraine the other day as an election observer, could start by surprisingly finding everything very well, not to mention Béla Kovács. Of course, our Fraction does not support any ideas other than strengthening prejudices. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-11-03-221	Thank you very much. Congressman Adam Mirkóczki has applied to speak, Jobbik. You have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now that I am responding to my professional two minutes of terror, all I would ask my fellow Member of Kunhalm is that he should answer one thing, even through the press, that they are now lying a great deal, or Attila Mesterházy and Zsolt Molnár lied a great deal in the spring of 2014, when his flagmen wanted to be the flagmen in terms of the publicity of information on the citizenship of Members of Parliament. However, I would also like to address the Fidesz and pro-government representatives that not only the MSZP tried to be the lead in a scandal on this issue, but roughly a year ago, when I addressed an immediate question to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, he himself took the view that there was nothing wrong with this issue, and in part he supported it himself and asked his faction to support the birth of this proposal. Once again, this bill is not sanctioned, it has no consequences, it provides information. If our CV, our studies and practically all information about us is public and available, then ask why our supposed or real citizenships are secret. If we are accused of what country we are committed to, then it is not strange that we have been the ones for years who want to be public information for each Member of Parliament, regardless of party standing. I believe that there would be uncomfortable moments, or there would be talkative information, I don't know, I assume that there would be such a thing, after which it would be very difficult to accuse a party or, where appropriate, us of what country we are committed to outside Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-223	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to answer. [[For signal:]] Congressman Novak is signaling. Congressman, we have two minutes to respond. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-224	Dear Parliament, I confess to you that there is a somewhat too modest proposal before us here, at least as far as my personal opinion is concerned, because in a very modest way this proposal does not make, let us say, incompatible with the nationality of any nation that opposes Hungary, but this proposal merely says that the issue of citizenship is nothing more uninteresting than an autobiography, a school education or a declaration of assets. Therefore, our amendment does not prohibit us, but only makes the data on citizenship available to anyone publicly available, which, in principle, they would have had an obligation to reply to, according to the earlier opinion of the Data Protection Supervisor. Unfortunately, the vast majority of Members of Parliament have failed to comply with the law, and unfortunately they can do so. It is no exaggeration to call the majority of the Parliament a political criminal, when at such a level you can ignore a very short, simple question as well, and even though the hat is off to, say, Répássy Robert, Secretary of State, who has already responded to my question within a few minutes of my question, he would have set a good example for his fellow Members, but the vast majority, both the Fidesz and the MSZP, all other opposition party representatives, unfortunately, have failed to comply with these obligations. I am glad that Agnes Kunhalmi felt that he had to speak, because he has to explain in some way how they may have suggested this earlier, but they are now preparing, as they have already done in the committee, to vote against this proposal. On the other hand, we better men never look at who's proposing something, but what's the subject of the proposal, because we have sworn to it. We look at what is good for Hungarian people, what serves transparency in this case, for example, and yes, it was the Simon Gábor case, which also led you to see that this issue needs to be clarified, because if we find out here some other representatives who have a passport in other banana republics, there may be a clear reason for it: they have something to hide and have to flee. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! ? Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[17.50]]
u2014-11-03-225	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place later after the hearing. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Members of the Council of the European Union, Members of the Council of the Take your seats, which means mostly sitting on their chairs, keeping quiet, checking their cards so that everyone can decide and vote. If they've done that, we'll start the decision. [[It's constant noise.]] Calm down, you can express your opinion later. Dear Parliament, In its presentation on 30 October 2014, the House Committee proposed that the Parliament ask the negotiating committee to decide on certain reports. The house rules are 85. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on this without debate. At the beginning of the meeting, we decided to derogate from the house rules, but no motion for a separate vote was received either from the factions or from the independent Members. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the House Committee's proposal, with one decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it invites the negotiating committees to decide on these reports. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the negotiating committees to take decisions by 152 votes in favour, 7 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, A legislative proposal between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland to initiate the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of classified information follows. The submission was made in T/53. was given to them. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate and the initiative of the Legislative Committee did not take place, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/53 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision of the bill initiating the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Austrian Federal Government on border crossing points and border crossing points at the common border and cooperation in road and water transport in border traffic control. The submission was submitted in T/929. was given to them. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate and the initiative of the Legislative Committee did not take place, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/929. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, A legislative proposal between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to initiate the publication of the Convention on International Carriage of Passenger Transport and Freight by Road will follow. The submission was submitted in T/1126. was given to them. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate and the initiative of the Legislative Committee did not take place, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1126. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport Final vote of the bill amending the law. Pál Völner, Fidesz, Member of Parliament's own motion T/1561. was given to them. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate and the initiative of the Legislative Committee did not take place, the decision is now to be taken. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1561. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 162 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2008 XL on gas supply. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. Congressmen Roland Mengyi and György Balla, Fidesz, a separate motion by T/1371. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1371/7. T/1371/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group has proposed the T/1371/3. Amendment No 1 to the proposal for amendment No 1 to be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. T/1371/3. In Amendment 3, Mr Bertalan Tóth put forward legislation on storage of natural gas as a public customs warehouse by supplementing and amending the bill. The Economic Committee shall not support it. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the T/1371/3 at the request of the MSZP. Amendment No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 111 against and 24 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1371/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 131 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1371/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 132 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1995 XCVII on aviation. Act CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/1507. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. T/1507/6. T/1507/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1507/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 143 votes to none, with 24 abstentions. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1507/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, following the request of the Jobbik Group, the Parliament has already conducted the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. T/18 initiating a change in law The debate on the inclusion of Bill No. 1 in the series of articles. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you if you will be included in a series of questions by Congressman Gábor Vona and other Members, Jobbik, T/18. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 23 votes in favour, 137 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We're about to discuss the immunity and the decision. The immunity committee is H/1811. In its proposal No.2 the Parliament shall not suspend the immunity of Mr Simon Miklós, MP, in the matter concerned by the request of the District Court of Nyíregyháza. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President, who wishes to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Mr. President, you have five minutes. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-226	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Nyíregyháza District Court 38B1291/2014/5. In his transcript No.1, Dr. Miklós Simon applied for the suspension of his immunity for defamation on the basis of the indictment of Zoltán Orosz Mihály. According to Dr. Miklós Simon's indictment, Dr. Miklós Simon, dated 8 May 2013, in a letter addressed and sent to the population of Verpatak, signed by his own hand, said and in his view that he used the following expressions of honour. 1. For the situation that has occurred, in order for those in need not to receive social benefits, all responsibility lies with Zoltán Mihály Russian, mayor of Vérpatak. 2. All Hungarian citizens must comply with the laws, and this is true of the mayor, Dr. Zoltán Orosz Mihály's irresponsible behaviour has caused damage to the population, endangering hundreds of families by preventing the payment of social aid, endangering their livelihood. According to the additional indictment, Miklós Simon's above statements are false statements capable of defaming honor. On the grounds of the grounds that the Central Detective Attorney General's Office could not be prosecuted, the investigation was terminated, which was approved by the High Representative and Military Affairs Department. After that, Zoltán Orosz Mihály acted as a substitute private prosecutor on behalf of his lawyer. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the absence of jurisdiction, the immunity committee has not dealt with the criminal prosecution of the case. According to the pro-government representatives, in this case, too, the continuous practice of the immunity committee in cases of defamation, which ensures the purpose of immunity, i.e. the smooth working of Parliament and Members, must be followed. In view of this, three non-voting votes were cast on the motion for the waiver of immunity. The opposition representatives cast 2 votes in favour and 1 abstentions on the suspension of immunity. By rejecting the motion for the waiver of immunity with the stated voting rate, the proposal of the immunity committee to the Parliament is that Dr. Miklós Simon does not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-03-227	You've heard the committee's proposal. Thank you, Mr President. I will ask Mr Simon Miklós if he wishes to speak within a five-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] He won't say anything, he'll signal. Dear Parliament, In that case, it shall be decided. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it suspends the immunity of MP Miklós Simon. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not suspend Mr Simon Miklós' immunity by 22 votes in favour, 136 against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We are now continuing our work with general debates. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the establishment of a central register and the amendment of certain administrative laws will follow until closure. The submission was made in T/1709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[It's a lot of noise.]] I would ask the honourable Members, if they have something to do and it is not related to the bill, to do so outside the hall. Secretary of State will put his microphone on. You have the floor, please.
u2014-11-03-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The legislative package before us mainly contains amendments that are necessary to create a new state register, the central title register. This is a master register that would contain all the addresses in Hungary in itself without linking these address data to the name of the property owner or to the registered tenant. For this address data register, the personal data and address records, as well as the real estate register, are planned to be connected and their address data will be updated only from the central address register. This will ensure that the identity and address records and the address data of the property register are the same, that there is no conflict between them and, on the other hand, these addresses will always remain up-to-date in both registers related to the address register. We plan to start the operation of the central register on 1 January 2015 and the necessary technical improvements are available for this purpose. Pre-cleaning of currently registered address data is required for the establishment of the database. This task is carried out by the notaries in the settlements at the moment, and according to all preliminary indications, this work will be completed in time to enable it to operate on a regular schedule, uploaded with data from next year on the central register. If the function of the title register starts and we see that it works in accordance with our preliminary expectations, eliminating the redundancy of the recorded data, it can also be considered what other state or municipal records may still be connected to this system. The development will therefore not stop at this result. This bill sets out the following proposals to achieve the objective. The personal data and address records, as well as the real estate records, will be kept up-to-date following the start of the central address register, from the home address data recorded in the KCR. This requires amendments to the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses and to the Real Estate Registration Act. The bill complements the former law with the definition of the central address register, clarifies the list of sources of personal data and address records in view of the fact that, after 1 January 2015, the source of the address data will be the central address register only and complements the data content of the register with the address coordinates. [[18.10]] Address data are entered in the registers by automatic data transmission, which may result in frequent changes in the registration address data. The bill therefore amends the real estate registration law in order not to have to carry out a real estate registration procedure after each data synchronization, i.e. automatic data change. In addition, the bill proposes to supplement the rules of the local government law on the names of public areas in order to give a more uniform picture of public areas at national level in the future. Since the legislative proposal contains only a few basic provisions, it does not restrict the right of local authorities to name public areas, and these rules only apply in public areas named after 1 January 2015, so there will be no need to rename public areas simply because of the change of legislation. The legislative package also contains proposals for amendments which are not directly related to the central register, but which are subject to other administrative provisions. They are included in this package because, to a large extent, it is also proposed to amend the local government law. It is proposed to amend the municipal law in order to allow public area supervision to provide a waiting public service, i.e. public parking. With this amendment, a more efficient provision of the public service is expected, since there is no need to operate a separate economic company for this purpose, but an existing organisation can carry out the activity. Since the Road Transport Act states that parking is a civil legal relationship between the local government or the service provider and the holder of the waiting area, it is appropriate to exclude public authority in the case of public area supervisors in respect of this task. In addition to carrying out the task, public area supervision should be ensured in order to verify the legality of parking and to impose a surcharge in order to be entitled to handle the necessary data. This requires a public area supervision law 10. Completion of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to We propose supplementing the municipal law with the rules on free transfer of assets, as the current legislation does not cover the case where the local government intends to transfer a property element free of charge to the State or other local government. The possibility of free delivery is not unlimited. The ownership of unfit property cannot be transferred and the transfer must serve some kind of public service mission. The bill also proposes to amend the municipal law by simplifying the rules on the establishment of joint municipal offices, the possibility of replacing agreements between settlements setting up a common municipal office by a government office, and by making the exercise of the powers of judicial supervision over local authorities more effective. Since 1 January 2013, the Act provides for the establishment of joint municipal offices for municipal municipalities within the district whose administrative territory is separated from each other by an administrative area of no more than one municipality, and the population of the municipalities does not exceed 2 thousand. The notaries were thus gradually replaced by the establishment of joint municipal offices. Agreements on the establishment of joint municipal offices had to be concluded for the first time within 60 days of 1 January 2013, which was also fulfilled by a significant proportion of the municipalities. [[Attila Móring József takes over his notary seat.]] However, there were settlements for which the conclusion of a compromise agreement was a problem, and this made it difficult, and in many cases it was impossible to perform the basic functions of day-to-day administration. The law provided for this problem to be resolved so that, if the common municipal office is not established within the specified deadline or if a settlement cannot join it, the head of the government office shall designate the municipalities belonging to the common municipal office on the first day of the month following the expiry of the deadline. An agreement on the common municipal office shall be concluded within 30 days of the appointment. In several cases, even after the appointment of the government office, the municipalities concerned could not agree and the agreement establishing the joint municipal office was not concluded despite the designation. If the agreement is not concluded, on 1 January 2014 the administrative and labour courts could replace the agreement in an out-of-court procedure at the initiative of the Governmental Office, but on the basis of practical experience, it is necessary to develop a simpler solution to deal with the problems that arise more quickly in order to avoid the inability to operate in the municipality. On the one hand, the draft seeks to address this problem by referring the decision to designate the municipalities of the common municipal office and to replace the establishment agreement to the head of the government office in the event of the failure to conclude the agreement, taking into account that the lack of agreement of the municipal representative bodies should not prevent the continuous implementation of tasks related to local public affairs, make it difficult or impossible to operate on a daily basis. The amendment is also necessary because the Mötv. According to him, the establishment or termination of the joint municipal offices would be agreed by the representative bodies of the local authorities concerned within 60 days of the day of the general municipal elections. The agreement will enter into force on 1 January 2015 following the year following the general municipal elections in 2014, i.e. after the general municipal elections in 2014. The purpose of the amendment is to avoid the re-emergence of previous problematic situations, while maintaining the possibility to challenge the decision to replace the agreement before the administrative and labour court. Dear House, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-229	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-230	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Please allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss further in the general debate on the legislative proposal before us the creation of a special central title register, which is also highlighted in the title of the proposal, as it is an important step forward in the field of Hungarian administration. The creation of a central directory is not a novelty. The need to implement a public, complete and up-to-date address database has already been formulated in the head of the legislator, taking into account EU standards and the situation in Hungary. Accordingly, Hungary fulfils, on the one hand, the title management requirements of the Directive establishing an infrastructure for spatial information within the European Community and the related implementing rules. On the other hand, we can see that the public administration does not yet have a database covering all the addresses of the country. Addresses, changes in different address registers and related processes have so far not been drawn up in a uniform spirit. Due to the lack of registration and the duplication of tasks carried out in different organisations, an additional burden is thus placed on both public administration and citizens. In order to solve this problem, it is therefore necessary to implement the uniform legal environment, administrative tasks and a full public-credited address register for managing the title in Hungary, which removes the additional burden from the public administration. The proposal for a bill establishing and implementing a register providing a credible source of data for public and municipal registers is the result of a multi-stage process. In 2013, the National Assembly adopted the 2013 CCXX on the general rules for the cooperation of state and municipal registers. Law. 14 of this act. According to Article 4 of the Act, until the entry into force of the Act, i.e. until 1 January 2015, the central address register should be established, which is a central register for cooperation between registers which provides a credible data source for address data by means of data link services. The details of the register of addresses, the address, the post code and the coordinate of addresses will therefore be directly or indirectly accessible to the public administrations and will gradually become reference data for each register. [[18.20]] In addition, it provides a uniform interface for the input of data and, on the basis of the draft, at the time of its departure on 1 January 2015, the personal data and address register and the real estate register will be attached to it. The sustainability of data quality will be ensured by standardising the management of titles strengthened by legislation. I therefore think that with this regulation, with a regulated framework, better functioning of the public administration can be expected, better quality public services for citizens, and thus better management of resources can be improved. In addition, it is important to note that the submitted bill does not affect the competence of local authorities to designate public areas in a way that cannot be transferred from the competence of the body of representatives. However, if the bill is adopted, a government decree will lay down the rules for uniform title training, which means that the addresses established in the named public areas will be in uniform format. In addition to the possibility of creating a single title and address management, the submitted bill contains amendments to certain other administrative laws, each in a small extent. They shall, on the one hand, make the necessary amendments to the above mentioned register and, on the other hand, resolve a number of problems that need to be resolved. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal in order to achieve the overall administrative objectives set out in the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-231	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The bill on the creation of a central register and the amendment of certain administrative laws that we are now looking at can be called a mix with great respect. The bill amends 13 laws, and only a part of them corresponds to the justification? The aim is to create the possibility of a single title and address management. The bill also includes legislative amendments which are not at all relevant to each other. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on the fact that the bill is not included in the Government's autumn 2014 legislative programme, as there are many others, before the content issues. At the time of the legislative programme, the government did not know, therefore, that in the autumn session it was necessary to re-enter the new law establishing the central register from 1 January 2015. He didn't know that the municipal law had to be amended many times. He didn't know that he had to go back into the real estate records and I could still list the areas. The government has submitted a bill that may have the greatest virtue of trying not to push it through Parliament in a rush. Can we say in good faith that the government has learned from past mistakes? Which I'm going to mention later, by the way? And now you're leaving the floor for the parliamentary debate. However, we cannot fully welcome this because the government acted against the law when preparing the bill. We could also highlight this in a number of legislative proposals, but that is what we are discussing here. Was the bill not issued for social consultation, the result of a preliminary impact assessment of the expected effects of the law, if any? will the Secretary of State report on this in a further speech? So it's not known. Only a draft government regulation is included on the government's website as a draft in consultation on the title register. As far as we know, there was no other history of this law. I should like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government to the fact that the law on legislation provides that the preparatory of the legislation, as defined in the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws, must ensure that the draft legislation is accessible and can be expressed. Under the provisions of the Act on participation in society in the preparation of legislation, a draft and justification of the law should be provided for, inter alia, for social consultation. Social consultation can only be excluded under the law if there is a particular social interest in the urgent adoption of the draft. I note that we criticized this clause quite often in the debate of that law at the time, since it is incomprehensible when this area can be enforced. In the case of this bill, is there an urgent motion for a parliamentary hearing, as I said? Is that right, by the way? It won't happen. On the basis of the preparation, it can be concluded that the Government and the Minister of Preparatory have repeatedly violated the legal provisions on the publicity of draft legislation, laws which have already been passed under the government of Fidesz. Dear Parliament, The non-negotiation obligation is also important because, because of the protection of personal data, the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information also has the right to comment. On the NAIH website, the President of the Office only gave an opinion on the Government Decree on the title register, which was also issued for social consultation, and did not issue an opinion on the bill, i.e. he probably did not have an opinion on the bill. I ask you, Secretary of State, if this is any different, to deny what I just said. If not, please comply with the provisions of the legislative law voted by you in the event of at least one next bill. Returning to the fact that this fact is of particular importance in the case of the bill, I will also mention this further. Ladies and gentlemen, From a content point of view, the bill should, in particular, be about the character of lettuce. Not only because the subject matter of the amended laws is not related to each other, but also because the amendments point to the untenable practice that the government does not change certain laws in a thoughtful way, but does so in accordance with its daily interests and daily ideas. Why should it be realized now that it is essential that the builder of the water facility also be considered a builder? Why is that, Mr. Secretary? Why is it now necessary to realise that it is necessary to regulate the transfer by the State of water service charges for the use of irrigation, rice production and farm water? Why did you just find out now, why you're only now discovering that you've created regulations without legal authority? I suppose you've noticed that before. What is the reason why public area supervisors and municipal auxiliary supervisors should be given a public parking mission now? And if this were the right time, then what is the real reason for this, Mr. Secretary of State? We would also like to hear the real legislative intention, not just what is written. The bill also provides that the government, not the Minister of the Interior, should be entitled to set the minimum cost for property protection. This may seem to be a simple and technical amendment at first glance, but this amendment will be brought to a whole different conclusion if we look at how painfully it is going to be for this very important regulation to be put in place. As may be remembered by my fellow Members, last October my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó demanded in Parliament the minimum hourly rate for property protection services. This could prevent systemic black employment in the private security sector. At that time, the government withdrew from this suggestion, but two months before the parliamentary elections, they promised to introduce the law on which it was passed. However, so far, the regulation regulating minimum overhead charges has been in vain. Although the Ministry of Interior published the draft regulation in summer, under our urgency and pressure from trade unions in the sector, it has not yet been published. [[18.30]] Meanwhile, it was quite slowly over in 2014, and now at the end of the year, they come up with this idea that the government would rather create the decree. And with that, you can start over with your time-consuming tactics over the last few months. This procedure, Mr Secretary of State, further strengthens the suspicion that all they wanted to do was win votes with this action, and in fact they have no intention of taking any action to whiten the private security sector and to alleviate the vulnerability of property guards. If that is not the case, Mr State Secretary, then do so in a reasonable way to deny what I have just said here. [[Erzsébet Schmuck takes the notary seat.]] Dear Parliament, Now let us look at the bill from the side of the regulation's stated purpose in the explanatory statement. From 1 January 2013 and from 1 March 2013 respectively, the rules of the address register for the addresses of citizens have significantly changed by amending the law on the registration of personal data and addresses of citizens. Following this, the 2013 CCXX on the general rules for the cooperation of state and municipal registers. By 1 January 2015, Act No. 5 established a central title register, which is different from the address register, mutatis mutandis. The central address register is more than the address register, a central register that facilitates cooperation between registers, which provides a credible source of data for address data through data link services for public and municipal address registers containing address data. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, In the light of the foregoing, it can be said that the regulation did not go too well, as the data traffic between the two registers has not been collated and the data link has not been properly sorted. The mistakes had to be first recognized by Congressman Font. The law on the modification of individual land laws? which is T/357. Mr Font was the author of our fellow Member Alexander Font? has already attempted to establish a link between the address register and the address register. The bill was discussed in an exceptional procedure, i.e. it seems that it was very urgent at the time. The comments of the Data Protection Authority were then tried ex post in the Legislative Committee, as I said in the debate at the time. This bill also shows that Sándor Font has not been able to fix the rules, now new provisions are needed to ensure that the title register, which has been ready since 1 January 2015, is operational. The question arises immediately whether, on the one hand, they can be prepared by 1 January, as the extension of the data content of a register requires primarily and mutatis mutandis IT development and, on the other hand, are they sure that they are actually ready now. Dear Secretary of State, I'd be happy if you could at least give us some answers to that in your locker. The next question is whether the real estate register can be prepared for all of this in the rest of the time. The provisions of the Real Estate Registration Act, which enter into force on the 8th day following the publication of the adopted law, intervene again in the process of keeping the real estate register. It is well known that the land offices are still the new Ptk. Nor did they recover from its entry into force, the case law is in the least uniform and the series of changes cannot be followed. And that's what our clients are suffering from. Unfortunately, for several reasons, but also in connection with the register of companies, the law on the local governments of Hungary is amended. This law will change many times before it comes into force, even after that. This, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, is not legal certainty. That's not it! The rules on the name of public areas are only partially linked to the limitations of the name of the public domain. To say good things after all this bad, we are relieved by the new rule that public property cannot be named for a living person. We can only welcome this provision. However, we do not see the rules for implementing it, how will citizens comply with the legal obligation that has not been in this municipal law so far, according to which? The owner must indicate the number of the house on each building with a house number. Interesting. But let's continue with the other amendments to the title register. CCXX of 2013 on the general rules for the cooperation of state and municipal registers. The current text of the Act states that the detailed rules of procedure for the management, operation and uniform management of the central register are laid down in a Government Decree issued under the authority of this Act. The law is now supplemented by provisions governing the processing of personal data, obviously because, when preparing the government decree, some rules necessarily require a level of law. This is it, ladies and gentlemen, which should have been discussed with the Data Protection Authority in every detail, and then perhaps such bloopers do not occur in the legislative process. I can see it when the Legislative Committee is forced to correct it again. It should be noted here that there is very little time left until 1 January. I am not sure at all whether there is sufficient preparation time for the enforcement bodies. Dear Parliament, It has already been proven several times that the hasty, thoughtless legislative attacks of government and government representatives have destroyed the large parts of the Hungarian legal system. They cannot correct the exceptional, urgent laws adopted in extraordinary procedures without social coordination. And law-abiding citizens and law enforcement agencies do not rush their heads, as the applicable law is changing almost day by day, interfering with large IT systems at the last minute. Could the MSZP even support a provision of the bill if the benefits of these would not be undermined by further harsh intervention in the operation of the municipalities? as other speakers in our group will say? or the government itself would show that it is unsuitable for coherent legislation and that it complies with the requirements of the norm. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, unless something almost miraculous happens with regard to the amendments, we will not be able to support this law. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-11-03-233	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the KDNP Group if someone would like to present the group's position. [[For signal:]] No. In this case, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-234	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When I first took this bill into my hands and read it thoroughly, I remembered that it was a fabrication, they said that in our area, and then I realized that they tried to force a large part of the topics onto a line, the KCR, so they tried to force it on the subject of the public register. Then someone might have remembered that there are still a lot of issues that need to be regulated that should be included in this bill, which you have done. It was terrible to listen to what was said, but at least it was just as terrible to read what was in it. But here we are, and the bill must be discussed and addressed in such a way as to make it feel constructive criticism, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to feel the otherwise devastating criticism that the Jobbik Group will put to you. In order to go in series and to see some of the important amendments hidden in the bill, the first may not even belong to the mainstream, the amendment on road transport, where the only interesting thing is perhaps that Magyar közút Zrt. Next to him and the other building company. Next to the actual builder, he places himself in the same status as the builder of the roads in which Magyar Közút Zrt. I liked him, too. In essence, this is important because it will also be subject to obligations such as the companies mentioned above. What was more interesting, however, is that my fellow Member, Barándy, has already said a few things in this regard: the KCR, which is also a central part of the bill, was, if you will, a background material, which can be learned with little follow-up. And we can clearly see that the social debate or, where appropriate, the debate between the authorities or bodies that would have revealed the impact and consequences of this amendment could not continue. [[18.40]] The Internet itself was also very narrow in the search, so it had to go much deeper, and the previous legislation had to be examined and the comments made to show what the point was. Can the real meaning be summarized in that? And maybe I'm trying to be clear here, precisely because if you're looking at civilians and less competent people, you understand what this central title register is all about. In this case, the actors were the four ministries and three implementing bodies for the negotiation and for the establishment of themselves, and the records involved were: personal data, address, property register, postal records, and notaries' records, and, moreover, any other legislative amendments contained therein, as well as proposals amending certain other legislation, concerned these areas. By the way, maybe the government didn't make a mistake as to what the need for it was. Perhaps there is no doubt about the necessity, because it was very important to create it, and it is very important to have a first standard register that contains those data and includes all the data that presents a confident and transparent database for all public bodies that use it, but even for civilians. In this regard, it is perhaps to be praised that it will eliminate the divergences or eliminate the differences that have been registered either by post or by public bodies, and it will create an interoperable system, so it will be practically data transfer among themselves, but it will also be a simpler way to obtain data. On the other hand, you can serve public administrations and civilians effectively, which is very important for a very simple, lifelike example: because as a practicing lawyer, I have often met with the fact that the addresses in the real estate register did not fit at all, and they showed nothing of the street and number property in their physical reality, of which neither the authority nor anyone else had any problem, the residents were the only ones who had a continuous problem, and the sales contracts had to be constantly different data. However, the same was the case with the company's registered office or, where applicable, other records: they were never correct, many times the problem was caused by the lawyers alone, in this case by the court of business or by the clients. So it is certainly forward-looking that such a central title register will be created, since this will dissipate everyone's uncertainty. By the way, I have noticed that the post office has done a great deal of work in this and in creating this, since it was possible to meet the subject that was processed by them and the presentations that were prepared by them, perhaps to give their appreciation for what they have done. Further to the legislation, Jobbik has already pointed out that, when amending water management, it is not only possible for the State to accept the service fee for watering and rice production and management water use, but also has to accept it. So we can go a little further on this and say that not only does the legislation leave an option, but instead impose an obligation, which is much more useful and much better for the needs of those involved. What's interesting and very technical is the modification of the real estate register. A very narrow section and a very short section will deal with the real estate register, and what will be changed will perhaps be one of the most plastic ones: who has already held a deed in his hand, will there indeed be sections on the ownership sheet or parts of it? What if someone's familiar with this? they will be completely erased, you can get used to adding new data, but if it happens on the altar of this, that otherwise we meet with a more authentic or more integrated data line and finally be united, then you can still say amen to that. The other thing that's interesting, perhaps, is the clarification of the task of public sector supervisors. Here, the government went on its earlier journey, and after all, the change of the central register will have an impact on both municipal tasks and, by the way, public area supervision, but will the amendment of the public area supervision also go through the municipal law, which, in turn, gives little reason for it? And here we have converted straight to Mötv. change your passwords? We are faced with another proposal, which shows that the government, who knows what its concept of self-governments is, what it wants to expect from local authorities, and always adapts it to the current mood, but my fellow Member will also speak more about it in more detail during the debate. What is also interesting, and an earlier expectation of the profession, was in the area of property protection, establishing the cost of property protection. The premium will be extended and extended here in terms of the possibility for the government to set this premium not only for public procurement, but also the possibility of setting the premium for this activity, which is very good, since it leads to the cleaning, cleaning and bleaching of the sector on the one hand. So it was absolutely necessary, and that is what the professional organisations themselves said, and they have been saying it all along during previous debates. The question to be rethinked and considered alone is why the government is taking the opportunity to establish in its decree, when it might have been in a perfectly good place with the Ministry of the Interior and, by the way, with the authorities responsible for ordering. Perhaps it is that the government says an amen or a final word in this; we understand the purpose of the initiative, or that the government has as much authority as possible in this area, but I think it would have been possible to think a little more closely about it. And that's the really important question, isn't it? And this has come up before? That all this stuff had to be so horribly compressed into it. Where was the meeting after all? Where was the professional background work? Can't you see it in there? Not in your justification, or in your own text of the law? the references or references to which these changes go through. Who were those with whom this was professionally agreed? What were the impact assessments? Does it even lack the criteria to which one could say? In our country? That she'd go with, like, water and soda. I think that this bill, if we look at it first, contains good insights, good start-ups, can go in the right direction, but does it have such nasty details? For example, the further confusion of the local government? which are very damaging to the overall picture, so from now on this bill is not an acceptable bill. So I'm guessing you've had it a lot? And that's me, though I'm starting to see it? That it would be worth many times to bring in such a large proposal to amend certain laws, let us say, in salads, we always use that word, but we take the time to go through each and every one of them, to have a professional debate everywhere, and to be able to see, wherever possible, who the government has consulted, what its intention is, and what the public authorities or, where appropriate, civilians have said. So for my part, I cannot support either the content or the formal part of it, and I think that it will not surprise Jobbik's central position and the position of Jobbik's representatives. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-235	Thank you very much. I will ask if someone from the LMP Group wishes to present the group's position. [[For signal:]] No. In this case, Honourable Parliament, we have reached the end of the speeches of the Prime Minister. I am now asking if there is anyone on the part of the independent Members who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No one wants to say anything. In this case, two-minute speeches are possible. I'm asking if anyone wants a word in two minutes. [[No signal coming through.]] He doesn't want any. If you do not request, we will continue the work of the Parliament with the speakers announced in advance. I give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-236	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to pick up where my fellow Member has just left off, namely that the fundamental question of this package of legislative proposals is what the government really wants with the municipalities. The most significant and the most significant part of the proposal, I think, is what the Mötv is. This is what I would like to talk about, especially the amendments to the establishment of joint municipal offices. The Secretary of State was also a mayor and Member of Parliament at the time in the work of the committee in which I was involved, and can he remember how big the debates were? have even pro-government representatives questioned the government's position or idea regarding the limitation of the number of employees, namely that a self-government office cannot be set up under 2 000 people? This is an idea of what kind of debates have been triggered. [[18.50]] And indeed, we must say, going back to the basic question, that this new Mötv. is one of the most spurious and hardest acceptable points for us, because we believe that there is an independent office in a settlement, that is not luxury, and that the accusations or the images the government intended to suggest are not true, that in these offices there are idle people who do nothing. No, in these offices at the time public services were organised, public service was organised, and, yes, they were places for community building. Unfortunately, we know it's the Mötv. With its entry into force, hundreds of independent offices have ceased, and many people, many of them, have lost their jobs. Therefore, since we knew and predicted what would happen to this proposal, the impact of the then proposal, Jobbik did not support the Mötv. This part of it. Now, however, you want to tighten up the formation of the common municipal office. By the way, it is typical that this proposal will be submitted right after the municipal elections. If you had a problem with the section that was in force since 1 January 2013, you could have done this a long time ago, but no, you waited for the municipal elections to go down and then submitted it to the House. This is not a recent problem, which you are describing here, and what you are setting out in general and in detail, are not recent events, they are events after 2 March 2013 to which you refer. Why now? Why does this need to be amended, since we know that those debates, by the way, all those debates at the time, were successful, we can say that it is closed, if this can be described as a success, that joint municipal offices have been established. Probably because more and more places can be heard that they want to increase the number limit for the establishment of joint municipal offices from 2 000 people. You could hear the idea of this being raised to 5,000 people, but the most amazing thing is that you could hear 10,000 people. If this limit of 10,000 people were to enter into force, then exactly what Bajnai said in the election campaign would happen, that is enough two hundred municipalities for Hungary. So, indeed, the local government, let's say, wouldn't end from one moment to the next the fact that it doesn't have an independent office, but that first, serious, significant step in that direction, we could be quite sure. And yes, there are currently about 200 municipalities in Hungary over 10,000 people. I very much hope that this nightmare will not happen, and that you have not brought this proposal in precisely because you want to go in this direction. And I ask the Secretary of State to rebut, in his reply, that he declare here, in front of the country-world, that these rumours, that you want to significantly increase the limitation of the joint municipal office, are not true, and even if the original limit of 2 thousand people was wrong, but at least you do not want to make it worse. And the other is why these unreasonable restrictions are going into Mötv. right now. The House voted now, a few minutes ago or a half an hour ago, on whether it intends to suspend the immunity of MP Miklós Simon in a case concerning the fact that he wrote a seriously defamatory leaflet against Mayor Zoltán Orosz Mihály of Vérpataki, objecting in this leaflet why the Municipality of Verpatak is finally refusing to conclude an agreement on the common municipal office with the City of Nagykálló or settlement designated by the Government Office. I'll tell you why they refused to tie it. Please, they refused to tie me up because the citizens would have been able to make it from, say, from Verpatak to Nagykálló, only by crossing Nyíregyháza would they have been able to do so every time it would have meant several hours of transport. So, if they wanted to settle a case in the common municipal office, they would have had to take a day's leave in order to get to the common municipal office, and then either manage to do their job or not. If they didn't make it, they sent them back, they had to go again, they should've taken more vacation days. And what was not liked by the representative body of Verpatak in the agreement on the common municipal office was that they could not have interfered with the work of the notary of the common municipal office, could not have asked him in any way, could not have been criticized by the body of representatives in any way, since his employer was, by law, the mayor of the settlement of the seat of the common municipal office, but the right to at least agree on the job of the notary is a legitimate expectation. The other is that they would not have been able to interfere with the budget of the common municipal office. I think that this is one of the things that we can safely call a gross deterioration of the local government, if the settlement in question cannot, in fact, have any such relationship with its own office, or have any influence on the budget of the office. And they couldn't have defined the terms of the joint office. They couldn't have said anything about it. These were the three points for which they were asked to be reviewed, and they did not sign that agreement until these three points were resolved soothingly. The fact that this long-term, because, by the way, Nagykálló's body of representatives was not a partner, therefore, the long-distance had other effects, no doubt. However, let us not dispute the right of any body of representatives to sign such a far-reaching treaty with extraordinary effect for the future and refuse to accept it without debate. Yes, I think so, and if anyone takes the local government seriously, then you have to tell me the truth, that you have the right to a council, a mayor, to interfere in the substance of such a contract. But in the end, they managed to conclude this contract, and now the system is working, just like it does everywhere else. Therefore, this alone would not justify the need for the Mötv. to amend it, especially without any government approval, the head of the government office will tell us what the content of this contract should be. Then, of course, if you don't like it, you can go to court, where sooner or later, but eventually, you can get the right settlement. I think that, therefore, the bill before us cannot be supported in any way, and I very much ask the honourable Secretary of State, please, and tell us why this is really necessary, because I say that what has happened in the past has already been settled. It is feared that because such debates will continue to be expected in the future, you need to amend this urgently. To go further, I believe that this is the same issue as the further strengthening of the role of judicial oversight of government agencies. That's 35. §, in which the following is indicated, I will read out to you:. The statutory supervisory penalty may be imposed several times or in case of repeated infringement of the same obligation in the course of the judicial supervision procedure. What's new about that? 'Cause it's clear that in case of the same breach it can be imposed again, has it been so far? That's more than once in the course of legal proceedings. So, if the same situation exists and, say, the settlement refuses to change, because time, let's say, is required to make a decision, it cannot be from one moment to the next, let's say, to negotiate and establish such an agreement, to sign it, then every time you have to, you can punish that settlement every day. Is that fair? Is that fair? Is that legal? I don't think the government should use this kind of weapon to force its will on the municipalities. In principle, local government is a fundamental right. Then, I ask you with all due respect to the government, that they respect this fundamental right, which, for the time being, the settlements still have. [[19.00]] Finally, would you like to answer the question of the transfer of assets, which also alters Mötv.? I wonder why it was necessary. It's the Mitzvah. 108. the amendment to Section 31 of the Act, which is Article 31 of the Act of Accession. The law has already given us the opportunity to make a free transfer of assets between the municipality and the municipality, the municipality and the state. Not to mention, even if you hadn't given me the opportunity, you've made a law that simply by the power of the law transferred certain assets, let's say, from a government to a state. You do remember, for example, the fate of the county government's assets or even its properties to municipal authorities, which were transferred from one moment to the next by the power of the law; and many times, the burden remained there, if it was loaded property, on the neck of the settlements. So, you've solved this problem so far, I ask you with respect, why is this really necessary? Because what's written in the detailed explanation is nothing, we know that's not the real reason? Why is this really necessary, please do so by giving us a reasonable and detailed explanation. Just because there are events that arise from not so long ago, such as the City Park, where several municipalities and the state were interested, and perhaps certain disputes could be closed there, for example. I ask the Secretary of State: is this the case? What's the real reason? Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-237	Thank you very much. We are now continuing our work with the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP. [[Impressive Dezső: Two minutes!]]
u2014-11-03-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the law, I would also like to focus on the law on the local governments of Hungary. Indeed, this bill contains 13 laws, and that is what I would like to say in the first place. But before I do that, I cannot go beyond what my fellow Member, Mr Gergő Bárándy, and several of my opposition colleagues have already said, and it happens that the preparation of this law leaves something to be desired. Indeed, as my fellow Member said, this bill was not planned for the autumn 2014 legislative programme, and indeed this law was not preceded in advance by any social consultation. Is it the result of a preliminary impact assessment of the expected effects of the law, if any? Is there a possibility that there's no such thing? Not known. The impact of the proposed legislation which is considered significant is unknown, its socio-economic, budgetary impact, its environmental and health consequences, its impact on administrative burdens, the need to draft legislation, the likely consequences of non-legislative action, and I might add. In conclusion, can it be concluded that the Government and the Minister for Preparatory Affairs itself are the legal provisions on the publicity of draft legislation? By the way, are we talking about the laws that you have already made, my honourable Members? He broke it several times. But then, to say a few words to the law on local authorities: one of the objectives of the bill is indeed that public sector supervisors can in the future provide the entrepreneurship public service that could also be called a parking service. This is not a mandatory task, but can be taken on the basis of a decision, but perhaps I can say that this is not a bad initiative, since many cities have transport companies, where there are different divisions or businesses, and it could really mean efficiency if public area supervisors could provide this service. The bill also amends a number of provisions on the relationship between local government assets. The bill complements the list of tasks falling within the non-transferable competence of the body of representatives with its decision to transfer the municipality's assets free of charge to the State, as well as other rules on the free transfer of assets. This is indeed what has been lacking in previous legislation so far. If the local government wished to transfer a property element free of charge to the State or to other local authorities, it could not have done so before. In the future, the law states that there is a condition for this transfer, quite rightly, that it must serve as a public service. My only question to me is that in my opinion, it is also a good direction, only why it was left out of the previous Mötv., and if it was left out of the previous Mötv., then what is the reason why the author has now inserted it into the bill in such a hurry. However, it is also worth noting that the Mötv. and the property law does not deal with situations in which the possibility of a non-trafficable transfer of property would be essential. Just as it is interesting that the draft is changing the relationship between government agencies and the municipality, and the main reason for this is that the regulation was not clear before. In the justification for the rules clarifying the essential provisions of the content of judicial supervision over local authorities, we see that, on the one hand, the proposal repeals clear and unnecessary explanatory concepts, but I have to say that it does not basically facilitate the application of the law. I am afraid, and I hope that this will not be the case, that there will be no drastic intervention by government agencies in the judicial supervision procedure of the municipalities, and that government offices will not expand beyond their respective competences, limiting the legal scope of the municipalities in the future. Should a common municipal office be established? Has my opposition fellow Member also mentioned this? the municipal municipalities within the district whose administrative territory is separated from each other by the administrative territory of no more than one municipality and the population of the municipalities does not exceed 2 thousand inhabitants. There was already a deadline for this, the first legal deadline was 1 January 2013, which was not fulfilled at the time, the amendment of the law did not come together, and according to the text in force, the establishment of the common municipal office should take place within 60 days of the local elections and the entry into force would be 1 January 2015. It can already be seen, if there has been such an initiative before, and it has not been possible to achieve this, that this new deadline cannot be met, and another reason for government agencies to intervene in the operation of municipalities. According to the bill, is it not the case that if the joint municipal office is not established within this deadline, instead of the municipalities concerned? In quotes? The government office solves it, it happens to be very simple to designate the settlements and establish this agreement. We are of the opinion that, in this context, we are not sure that we should intervene in the operation of the municipalities in such a harsh way, but rather that we should act as an incentive. Overall, there are indeed parts of the salad law containing 13 laws that might even be eligible, but because it intervenes very harshly in the everyday life of the municipalities, and it has not been preceded by any kind of social consultation, and if I look at the deadline for the entry into force of the various laws, they are also not appropriate for the law to be feasible. So in this form, this bill cannot be supported. Thank you.
u2014-11-03-239	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, What I understand, of course, is that the ideas that the government's unthinkable legislative attacks have destroyed the large parts of the Hungarian legal system and that they cannot correct, correct and correct the laws that they have conducted in exceptional and urgent procedures, in exceptional procedures and without social consultation, of course, I think it is irrefutable facts, this is one part of the matter and the other part obviously belongs to the category of political opinion. [[19.10]] Dear Secretary of State, I don't think it's okay that you, I don't know what you're doing on your iPad, but you certainly don't listen to the speeches. Any points that are specifically technical or specific procedural or substantive parts of the bill on the part of the Members? I mentioned this myself, and I counted to ten, and then I didn't think it was necessary, but also my fellow Members, my fellow MSZP, raised such things, which, say, concern the private security sector or the obligation to consult with the President of the Data Protection Authority, or are they going to be able to ensure that the title register is operational by 1 January? I think it would be appropriate to answer, and not in the usual way in the closing, but in a way that there could still be a debate about it. Is that what I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State? I do not know if you have written the closing with the usual pro-government, clichéd answers, thanking you for your active participation in the debate and for considering the support for the amendments. Do so by responding substantially to the points raised during the debate. [[Happy István: It will be worth it, in the end.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-241	Thank you very much. Now it's time for Congressman Dezső Believing, MSZP. Here you go. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What are you yelling? ? Happy Stephen: We believe it! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Push the button!]]
u2014-11-03-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Then, then, Mr Secretary of State will not be involved in the debate, so there will certainly not be a debate, because we say ours, and he will probably say something at the end. I'm sure this will make it harder for us to talk about it. This highly riddledled bill, which lies in front of us, is a sign that is difficult to use, as this could probably have been prepared very quickly, in my opinion, for fire-fighting. My experience is that legislation is usually needed when we want to strengthen legal certainty or social conditions that have not previously been resolved in some way. That's not what this bill is about. Is this bill about you creating me earlier? Is it made in one way or another? For some reason, the laws need to be amended, on the basis of the proposals before us, it becomes clear that they were adopted in the past during some faulty preparatory work. It can also be said that this is a proposal for a widely amended legislation, and I think that it may not even be the right word, because, if we look at it, we have 13 very different and unrelated legislative amendments in our hands on road transport, the register of citizens' personal data, address, water management, taxes, property registration, public domain supervision, electronic signatures, personal and property protection activities. I am also sure that this does not serve legal certainty in the coming period. The other is that I am also sure that the driving force behind the preparatory work was not to bring here an extremely mature and well-lit bill, but to bring it here? As I mentioned earlier? This could probably be some kind of fire-fighting, because this bill is screaming unprepared, that they are not coherent with each other, and in my view this is forecasting the chances of an upcoming amendment. I would also like to say a few words about the preparation, although this has been done earlier, as I see it, by the representatives of almost all parties in their comments. The way and method of preparing a law tells us a great deal. Can it be prepared knowingly, in a planned manner, as a result of long preparatory work, to consult various groups of society, with the institutional system? are there very important offices that can be consulted on this issue? After that, we will have a mature amendment of the law. It's one of the ways. And the other way is when someone somewhere thinks that the Philosopher's Stone is in his pocket, sits down and such a law is born. Though we've heard of this before? Maybe even our most important law? That such legislation can be written on a laptop between Brussels and Budapest; this is probably made between Budapest and Cegléd, because it is not so prepared. So I think it says a lot about how this material was made. To my knowledge, this was not planned, it was not included in the legislative plan, it was born with some sudden idea. I have thoughts about what these sudden ideas could have been. I'm sure that's unfortunate, although we've seen this before in Fidesz legislation. These things that we have said are usually formal, but among the formal questions there is something extremely serious. In my opinion, it is a serious mistake that there has not been so-called social consultation and that, in my knowledge, no impact assessment has been carried out. It is a serious mistake because in 2010 Fidesz created a law that laid down how and in what way these laws should be prepared. This law, which is about legislation, includes the need for social consultation. It certainly wasn't, because I didn't hear of a social group or institutions, anyone else who could have expressed an opinion on this matter, at least during the preparatory phase, because it didn't have a preparatory phase. The other is the impact assessment. The impact assessment is supposed to be here if there is. There are two options: either there has been no impact assessment or there has been a negative impact assessment, so we cannot see it. Either way, none of them are lucky in my opinion. I believe that this preparation should not be avoided, and therefore, in my view, this proposal is therefore against the law. After all, we could also say that it is a pity to continue to waste a word on this, because a law that is in itself illegal is illegal, I think it is a legal nonsense. But let's look at some substantive issues because I have no illusions that this will be accepted by the pro-government representatives. The first is the question of the data and address records of civilians. It is an important question, because it is about us and about us and about the voters. I sense that this is the case of the veterinary horse in this legislative package, since this issue was already dealt with in 2013, even then without preparation, even without the same impact assessments and social consultation, it was found that it was unsuccessful that year. One of their fellow Members, I understand, has tried to correct this in some way. Today's presentation proves that this was also a failure. That's why I said it was a veterinary horse. So the regulation that has not been resolved since 2013 and that has not been implemented in practice, I think, in a word, can be described as a failure. Coming up next with the government doing better and drawing a line up, I think it's a bold statement. I think this bill does more harm than good. However, I also feel that the period that has passed is ten times more than the period that the municipalities are now planning to leave for implementation. Ten times more! I'm sorry for your loss. I have spent more than a decade with the municipalities, I know exactly what this will be for them simply because, in preparing the law, they simply did not think that some people would have to implement it at some point. This, as it is, will be unenforceable, and we will meet again here, within the walls of Parliament, with this bill. [[19.20]] Especially if we consider the deadline for local authorities to implement this case. This bill is full of mistakes. Think about it, if you make so many mistakes in other areas of life, say, a bus driver, what the consequences are. The following proposal, which I would like to touch on, concerns the real estate register. It's not the first intervention in the real estate register. Technically, we're there now, including the new Ptk., that there's almost chaos in the field of case law. We should have given time to develop a good, good practice and then thought about where to change it. Today, it can be said that the legislation that has been implemented in the area of property registration is unfollowable. We're getting to the point where we need a law degree to get or study a deed of property. At the same time, I also see that there is already a proposal here on how to deal with the prize, i.e. the fees for these procedures. Unfortunately, once again, the fact that the work of the municipalities could be helped by making such procedures free of charge for them has been omitted. Most of these procedures take place in the municipalities. Who, on the other hand, have been granted no charge? The state, and to a great surprise, is the church, the one who probably deals with it once every leap year. And the person who does the real work has to pay. Interesting approach. In the area of protection of persons and property: here the proposal deals with the definition of minimum rates. If you think about everything and think about what happened and look at yourself a little bit, I think you'll be a little surprised. Imagine that there is a country where the hourly rate for the work of certain people is determined by the government. That's what it says here. If you met this in another country, I think you'd be laughing, too; we in Hungary are in pain. The only thing that comes next is that the wages of bakers and ski instructors have to be determined by the government. By the way, I think this is a totally wrong approach, but it says a lot about the current governance structure. With regard to the amendment of the municipal law: I think that another unfulfilled bill is being proposed, because what has not been implemented by the municipalities since 2013, namely, the implementation of the new offices or common offices, is now being granted to the newly elected municipal representative bodies for 60 days. In the meantime, they should coordinate with the municipalities with which they should establish such an office. They won't know, it's pre-envelopable, but Congresswoman has already said so. It's unsolvable! And there will be a typical Orbán solution: then the government will decide. I am convinced that this should not be done in this way. But it says a lot about your thinking, the way this whole issue is regulated. Overall, do I think that this bill, which lies before us, is a frivolous, hasty, thoughtless and legislative nonsense? It's illegal, by the way. On the whole, it may be said that the government, at least on the basis of this bill, is unfit to provide for normal legislation in a European way. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-243	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, As my fellow Members have already said, this bill contains 13 amendments to the law, and the sage stone mentioned by my fellow Member Dezső, is absolutely not in the government. This was thrown far away in 2010 and has not been found since then, it is clear. But what happens in the meantime? From these 13 legislative amendments, I would like to talk more about the amendment of the 2005 Act on the Rules of Protection of Persons and Property and Private Investigators. In this regard, the establishment of the property protection service fees in the regulation will not be the Minister of the Interior, but an activity falling within the competence of the Government. At the same time, the Government also provides for the fixing of the minimum fee for property protection services for the year in question. I don't know what happened, that we had to intervene in this process. Let's look at the history of this situation for a while. It is well known that employees in the asset protection sector are one of the most vulnerable groups of workers. Because what characterizes their employment conditions? High rates of unpaid overtime, pay below the minimum wage, unpaid leave and undeclared employment. It is known that according to the Chamber's calculations, the cost of employment of a property keeper is at least HUF 1186 per hour if all requirements are met. Compared to this, the average purchase price in this sector is 650 HUF. By the way, we are talking about a very important regulation, a regulation the need of which my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó drew attention to in October 2013 and has done so several times, and the government, surprisingly, before the elections in April, I recall in February, provided for a minimum fee for the hours, but the regulations needed to implement it have not been published since. They were published on the BM website in July, and nothing happened in the world from now on. The Prime Minister has not been able to keep his signature on these regulations since then. And the beauty of it is that with the amendment that lies before us now, the whole process can start all over again. So it's what they haven't been able to solve over the years? By the way, are we talking about 150,000 people, so this could affect 150,000 families? It is now being postponed again, because the government can now start again with the creation and production of these regulations, and it is a question of when the Prime Minister will give his signature. I would add that the Prime Minister has not always been so stingy with his signature, for example, the Director-General of the National Security Service has been so quickly appointed with his signature and has managed to publish this in the Hungarian Gazette that even the Commission's hearing of the candidate for Director-General could not take place. At this moment, Viktor Orbán can sign. However, no results have been achieved since July and early this year in order to enable the government to resolve the unblessed situation of workers in the protection of persons and property, their terrible working conditions and extremely low wages, and black employment. I think that these issues should be dealt with in substance, and that we should finally take responsibility for those who do such work and not always brag about public works, but also for the future of those who work many hours a day hard in such unblessed circumstances. So I suggest that you create the necessary regulations quickly and finally address this issue with substance. Thank you.
u2014-11-03-245	Thank you very much. Mr László Kiss, from the group of MSZP, will be heard. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-246	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Basically, I'd like to deal with three things. One is the question of municipal property. In this regard, legislation is a bit cynical when it talks about the obligation to place the range of assets that can be transferred free of charge under the authority of the body of representatives of the local government, while, by the way, you have amended the laws in such a way that simply a parliamentary amendment can take away any property of any municipality without any municipality being able to obtain compensation on the basis of this property. So while you're making a rule about a difficult legal situation, you've made it possible for any of the local government's assets to be stolen without compensation. To see how well this works in practice, allow me to recall Annex III. the example of a district government, where a solution to the Roman-coastal dam could not be found that was consistent with the Metropolitan Municipality or the government. Neither the local government nor local civilians were willing to comply with the dictatorships with which the government and the Metropolitan Government bombed them, and therefore practically the Roman-coastal area, which was simply expropriated by the capital without any compensation. [[19.30]] These are the situations that are untenable. But we can also consider the case of the expropriation of Margaret Island, to which another district government, the XIII. He was the victim of a district council. In this case, when it comes to the fact that the government can steal anything from any municipality with practically a simple amendment of law, talk about the rules on how and how the free transfer of property works, perhaps a little cynical. I must be in a similar way to those who protect rural self-governments in the context of joint offices. When we talk about what the Socialist Party's philosophy in this area is, we can say that before 2010, the MSZP and the MSZP governments were in favour of voluntary associations. Because we think it's the municipalities that know what they want, what's good for them. In comparison, you have now forced the municipalities to maintain common offices, which in many cases are even geographical nonsense. In many cases, they connect settlements that, although it sounds good to be in the same district, but if we remember where the word "walking" comes from, they called the administrative units which could be walked in one day, if we recall that, this is certainly the case at the current district position, let us say that it would not be possible. It would not happen for a reason, because in many cases it has been possible to establish districts whose settlements are difficult to reach each other. From now on, it is therefore difficult to talk about the fact that this joint establishment often extends the opportunities of people living in small towns. But what is it about in practice? For example, because of the deconcentralisation, i.e. because you have withdrawn powers from the municipalities and have been deployed to state or district offices, it has happened that in some small settlements, for example, where you have had custody of the small settlement, and the civil servant who did this obviously knew the people involved and had sufficient local knowledge, well, this civil servant has been dismissed, but even in the same settlement, but up to 30 kilometres away, people who are not competent have been appointed for tasks that require a great deal of local knowledge. We don't think anyone from this system wants to think. No one is asking, so it is necessary to give the municipalities who think they have the power to maintain their offices, that they have the right to do so. Obviously, we do not dispute anyone's claim, legitimate claim, that if any of the municipalities think that they want to operate within the framework, whether they want to operate with joint offices or with coordinated institution maintenance, which they consider to be good, then obviously the solution is to cooperate with these municipalities. But getting off this road after 2010 and obliging local governments to cooperate where cooperation is euphemism, it is ridiculous, because we are talking more about forced marriage, well, it is neither beginning nor end if we want to list the mistakes of this. The third issue, which has been pushed here by many of my fellow opposition Members. We would like to hear from the rapporteur, and not only in relation to this law, but also in general from the authors, why you do not comply with the legislative law that you have adopted in almost any of the laws that you propose. What's the reason? Is there any particular explanation to this story that in almost one case, you cannot or do not want to comply with the rules on legislation that you have made? Not in any case. During the previous term, they were cunning, and at the beginning of this cycle, we saw such cases when they wanted to circumvent their own laws by submitting them by means of one of the Members, and obviously, the Member could not read very much what he himself had acquired at times, with a performance that was at times foolish. And so they avoided this law, because the law on legislation is obviously less effective on individual amendment proposals, individual legislative proposals. They don't even give me that look anymore. Before us, there are laws that are born in government proposals, and although there is a law on how and how they should be born, a law that you have, by the way, made, so as a layman, it could be said that this difficult legislation has not been justified by the opposition shackles, but that you have undertaken to do so, and yet we see that you do not comply with it. But what is it about? It is about the pass of this law, which requires you to see exactly what effect legislation will have, well, this pass, I think, is not from the devil. Well, it's not the devil's wish for this law, which is that if the government wants to create legislation, then there should be an impact assessment, which, by the way, is public, which tells exactly what it wants to achieve and what it thinks will happen on the basis of legislation. This is not the desire of the devil for this law. Then it is not the desire of the devil that this law is about at least dealing with those involved. In addition, this is a very simple rubber rule, as the person concerned can be anyone, even with the fake civil society organisations you maintain, or with fake professional organisations, but they do not even take the liberty, let us say, to bring these laws to your disguise civilians. That doesn't even happen. An excellent example of this is the case of the National Faculty of Pedagogism, which you have grudged, which is an excellently filtered body, guaranteed to sit in it with your nods, and in no case has taken a position on the legislation affecting teachers since this body exists. But similarly, in virtually any legislation prepared by the government, it can be said that it is clear to the contrary that you do not wish to negotiate with anyone, and you do not have the faintest idea of what will be the result of the legislation. Or if there is, they don't share it with the House, they don't share it with anyone. Neither in this legislation nor in the previous legislation. This is a problem because, for example, in the event that you fail to fulfill the hopes that you intend to make legislation, you could indeed face this in the country-world, that at least the needs that you have set have not been achieved. There's not a word about that. We would therefore like you to tell us the reason why you almost never comply with this law, and you almost never wish to make legislation the way it is in the law that you have passed. Finally, I can say that this is also, you know, a salad that has elements that you like, there are elements that you consider to be good, which you welcome. And it's a salad that has elements that she doesn't like, that she doesn't like. And you know, when you look at a food that has many ingredients, there are elements that you love and you don't like, the end is that you don't eat it. The opposition does not wish to eat this salad. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-03-247	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply now. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Tell me when. ? Mrs. Loránt Violin: There is no answer to anything.]] Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on European Territorial Association until closure. The submission was made in T/1708. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Committee on European Affairs as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Magyar Levente, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go. [[19.40]]
u2014-11-03-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is XCIX of 2007 on European cooperation partnerships. By repealing the Act, an element of the European Union's new cohesion policy regulation package for the 2014-2020 programming period is particularly relevant to us, in Hungarian, including its regulation on European territorial associations in the domestic legal system. As a result, we have made some changes in the bill that point towards simplification and rationalisation. Dear Parliament, European territorial associations are of particular importance to Hungary. In this way, it is of particular importance that European territorial associations operate smoothly and effectively, in this spirit we have drawn up this bill, to which I would like to win the support of this House with respect. Dear Parliament, The legal institution of the European territorial association was originally established by an EU regulation in 2006 with the aim of enabling effective cross-border cooperation between two or more Member States and their regions and local authorities. The Member States wanted to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion and the more efficient use of EU funds at regional level on a cross-border basis. The most important added value of European territorial associations is that they have legal personality on both sides of the border and thus have full legal capacity in all Member States. The association shall perform the objectives and tasks defined by its members as non-profit-making entities. Accordingly, associations are primarily active in transport, environmental protection, education, training, health, culture, employment, tourism, sport and agriculture. Do they have a great advantage that they are also well suited to the implementation of European territorial cooperation projects, as they do all at the same time? I would like to quote.., joint planning, joint implementation and cross-border impact conditioning. Dear Parliament, Hungary, we can say, is a border country, if you look at the fact that 14 of the 19 counties are border counties, and our border section is extremely long compared to the total territory of Hungary, due to its over-average breakdown. In addition, about one fifth of the Hungarian population lives in the 15 km border zone of Hungary, about 2 million people and over 900 settlements are located in this border zone. If we add the border zone, which is 15 kilometers wide to the border with Hungary, we will see that 6 million people in nearly 3,000 settlements are affected by this issue. In this way border cooperation is of particular economic importance and relevance to Hungary. As far as Hungary is concerned, has Hungary been extremely rarely provided with border crossing opportunities? Compared to the average between Germany and France, for example, three to four kilometers? On average, we can cross our borders every 20 kilometres in Hungary, with which we are one of the last in the European Union, even more so in the Schengen area, and in some relations directly in the last places. To improve this, and to overcome this situation, the government has launched a comprehensive infrastructure development programme aimed at doubling the number of 94 currently available cross-border routes to nearly the year 2018 and to cover EU funds 2014-2020. This preparatory work is already under way and has partly achieved concrete results. Only Slovakia and I will start building 15 new border crossing points next year. The Slovak Government has already formally decided on this, and soon the Hungarian Government will accept the same operational programme in which these developments are foreseen. In the same way, our plan is to increase the number of border crossing points to Romania and Croatia as well as Serbia, but, to the surprise of many, we also have an excellent cooperation with Austria, including the Province of Burgenland, which will also start building a new cross-border transport link in ten places next year. Of course, in relations outside the EU, such as Ukraine and Serbia, this is a more difficult issue, because there must be full international border crossing points, but this does not prevent us from conducting intensive negotiations with our partners in Belgrade and Kiev on how to resolve the importance of the border wall at these particularly difficult border sections, which today basically hinders virtually all cross-border daily contacts and intensive back and forth travel opportunities. Thus, the disadvantages arising from border protection affect Hungary more than once, above average. For this reason, we must strive to take advantage of borderism and turn the historical disadvantages we have suffered into an advantage, in Hungarian, so that we do not view the border as a line, a wall that separates us from our neighbours, but an opportunity that connects us to our neighbours on a large surface. To this end, we are trying to seize all the means to improve the interoperability of these borders, in line with the fundamental objective of the European Union to break down the dividing nature of the borders as much as possible. Border developments are of strategic importance to us, since living on the border is not a separating factor, but must carry the potential for development. In this way, integration between border regions, strengthening economic and social relations are crucial for our economic development, and this is true equally for all seven border sections of Hungary. This also has direct national policy implications along most of our borders, it is enough to think that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian native speakers live directly in areas joining Hungary's borders, which we can address in this way, and we can achieve if we increase the intensity of cross-border contact through the tool system offered by European territorial associations. In this way, the instrument of European territorial association is able to reduce the dividing effect of the border and to stimulate the economy. In addition, the government is committed to developing transport infrastructure across the border, as I mentioned. The development of the transport network is also expected to be accompanied by the recovery of socio-economic relations, the coordination and management of which can also provide an appropriate institutional framework for European territorial associations, and this is where it is linked, at first sight, to our concrete efforts to create as many new cross-border infrastructure links as possible between Hungary and its neighbours, once again, in all seven directions. For this reason, European territorial associations are of particular importance in Hungary. This is demonstrated by the fact that the 2007-13. The majority of European territorial associations have been established within the EU during the EU budget period, with Hungarian participation, with a total of 19 of which 14 associations have their headquarters in Hungary. This also shows, Honourable Parliament, that Hungary has given priority to this instrument, and we are also at the forefront at EU level in terms of the intensity of the establishment of European territorial associations and the number of newly established associations. During the 2007-13 programming period, a number of improvements were made to their names, such as the reconstruction of the international road and bridge linking Karost and Bodrogszerdahely in Košice county or the construction of the bicycle route between South Komárom and Gúta and the implementation of tourist programs. This is tangible evidence that we are not talking about an empty instrument, a beautiful principle, a European idea, but that these partnerships are very practical. At the time of the EU Presidency of Hungary, a review of the EU regulation of European territorial associations began with the motto of simplification, transparency and improvement. Hungary has been active and successful in the review process. Most of our amendments have been included in the text of the new regulation. In particular, it contains more transparent procedural rules concerning the purpose and functioning of the European Territorial Association, the content of the Convention and the Statutes of the Association, the accession of third States and communication, bearing in mind the principles of continuity, flexibility and transparency. In this way Hungary and the Hungarian Government have played a meaningful role in the fact that the regulation that is now being adopted has been created with the same content and which best serves our national economy efforts, which I have just presented. [[19.50]] It is necessary for Member States to adapt their national implementing rules to the revised Regulation, due to their membership of the EU, and therefore we must also carry out a renewal of the existing legislative framework for national implementation. It was therefore a good opportunity to streamline old regulation with new legislation, using experience, good practices and international trends gained in recent years beyond the obligation to comply with the EU. Under the Regulation on the tasks and powers of the members of the Government, the tasks and powers of the European Territorial Associations have been transferred from the Minister of Public Administration and Justice to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. These amendments have, of course, been transposed in the new legislation. In addition to the formalities, we wanted to allow the institution of the European Territorial Association to be used in the easiest, fastest and widest possible way, so we simplified the procedure for approval and registration. In other words, we will terminate the previous two-step procedure, which has so far placed the approval of the establishment under ministerial authority, while the registration of the European territorial association based in Hungary is under the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan Tribunal. On the basis of the bill, so far, separate procedures at ministerial and judicial level will focus on the task and competence of the Minister responsible for foreign policy, thus simplifying the process of establishing a European territorial association and improving its effectiveness. In the spirit of simplification, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will also take over legal supervision, thereby ensuring more decisive action against the functioning of a European territorial association in which members do not carry out real activities. The new legislative framework will be complemented by a ministerial regulation laying down detailed rules for the approval and registration procedure. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, I therefore call for your support now for the adoption of a bill on European territorial associations, which are of particular importance for the economic development of the border region, partly in compliance with our EU obligations and partly in order to promote even more effective regulation. Once again, we are talking about the harmonisation of an EU regulation in Hungary, which at the same time gave us the opportunity to make some corrections in the previous law in order to simplify and improve efficiency. The honourable Members and Members who come from the border region, who represent border areas, are certainly aware of the importance of this instrument; they themselves are, in many cases, proactive or active parties to the creation of these associations. In this way, my request is to consider supporting this bill and I would like to thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I now give the floor to Mr Alpár Gyopáros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have 15 minutes tops. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Although many have been trying to prove otherwise these days, Hungary, as we have seen in previous years, is still committed to European values, standards and the European institutions. This commitment is also reflected in the strong stand for initiatives such as support for European territorial associations. The EGTC is the first legal instrument of the European Union to provide legal personality and a framework for cooperation between European authorities and regions, for the effective use of EU funds. The EGTC shall involve at least two Member States or third States, local governments, regional authorities or the State in a joint organisation. A European territorial association is a non-profit-making entity whose greatest advantage is that it has legal personality and full legal capacity on both sides of the border, thereby giving local actors the same opportunities in the countries concerned. Cross-border transnational and interregional cooperation strengthens economic and social cohesion, enhances competitiveness and facilitates more efficient use of EU funds; this has also been seen in recent years in the case of existing EGTCs, formerly known as Hungary. The previous regulatory regulation was reviewed by the European Parliament and the Council in 2013. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 on the amendment introduced significant changes and facilitations in several parts of the regulation. Increasing transparency and reducing administrative burdens are of paramount importance for the functioning of the EGTCs, particularly in order to make better use of the resources of the new cycle 14-20. This is what we see in terms of transparency as regards the regulation of the approval procedure in the Member States, the regulation of non-conventions or, in fact, the promotion of the use of instruments other than cohesion policy, and, in other respects, transparency with regard to the statutes, the provisions on the content of the conventions and their publicity. Dear Parliament, If I started with the commitment to the EU institutions and European initiatives, I would also like to end with this. The partnership is this commitment, and this is demonstrated by, let's say, the micro-level of all the previously functioning EGTCs, the cross-border cooperation between previously operating interregional authorities and other actors that are still functioning, and, at the macro-level, the amendment of the 2013 EU regulation, mentioned by the Secretary of State, which demonstrates the acceptance of the Hungarian amendments. In view of this, I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-03-251	Thank you very much. We now have a speech from Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-11-03-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Parliament and the European Council, by Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 on a European grouping of territorial cooperation, have established a legal institution for European territorial associations with a view to enabling effective cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation between regions and local authorities of two or more Member States and thereby strengthening economic and social cohesion in the areas concerned. This is the European Union's first legal institution and legal instrument, as has already been said here, which provides a legal personality and a framework for cooperation between European authorities and regions, for the effective use of EU funds. The main advantage of having legal personality and full legal capacity on both sides of the border is the implementation of the objectives and tasks set by the European Territorial Association Members. Its competence is derived, i.e. it cannot extend beyond the powers of its members, but cannot exercise authority. These are non-profit organisations, which cannot be based primarily on economic activity. I would like to highlight the importance of these organisations, which have already been established, because, as has already been said, all the regions of Hungary are affected by the national borders, and these regions are sometimes more fortunate and sometimes less fortunate. For example, I would like to highlight the South-Transdanubian region, the city of Pécs, where local actors, local authorities, such as Western Hungary, are not in such a fortunate position, where traditional economic relations have been established and developed that will draw on the economic performance of the whole region. You can also see from the data in Hungary that Western Hungary belongs to the most advanced region, while the less fortunate situation of South Transdanubia is due to the fact that its neighbours are not economically as strong as the neighbours of the Western Hungary region. Thus, these organisations are of particular importance for regions which may have an outbreak point in cross-border cooperation, with cross-border activities that can provide mutual economic benefits for both neighbouring and obviously domestic regions. The European Union has adopted an amending proposal for the simplification and improvement of the Regulation on European groupings of territorial cooperation in the EU Regulation of 1303/2013, which has obviously made it necessary to adapt the national implementing rules to the amended regulation, so that this law is born. The bill, together with the repeal of the 2007 Law on a European grouping of territorial cooperation, is now creating a new legislation on European territorial associations. [[20.00]] The provisions for the approval and registration of the legislation currently in force are consolidated by this bill which is now before us. Allow me to express the criticism of this bill in this respect. The registration procedure for European territorial associations has so far been carried out by the Metropolitan Tribunal with exclusive competence, under the new law it is now the responsibility of the so-called authority, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. This can, of course, be called simplification, it can be described as an important step in terms of efficiency, but we believe that this is a step towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, i.e. the Government, taking even closer supervision of these organisations, thereby undermining the right of local communities to exercise their association activities as freely as possible, as is the case with civil society organisations, here too? It's not county, it's exclusive jurisdiction. they have acquired their legal personality by means of a registration procedure by the Metropolitan Tribunal. Obviously, the approval procedure has so far been under government control. In addition, with this new regulation, legal oversight of these associations will be changed, and this will be out of the power of the prosecutor's office. So the legal supervision of the prosecution will no longer apply to the associations, and this will also be carried out by the authority, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, so in fact, from approval to registration and legal supervision, the fate of these associations will be in the hands of the Ministry. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In addition, the new law introduces a provision which also regulates that such associations can be terminated. So far, the termination has been regulated by the legislation, and now the termination will also be formulated, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will also be entitled to terminate these associations from an application or ex officio. We believe that this is a centralization, a centralizing effort once again by the Fidesz government, which characterized the transformation of the municipal system, characterized the deterioration of the rights of local communities, in fact, all administrative tools are concentrated here in the hands of the Ministry, in fact supplying these associations to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs, eliminating, as I said, the registration of the local government, and the legal oversight of the prosecutor's office. In addition, I would like to draw attention to a legislative problem, since the bill is the 21st. §2 of the Act provides that it shall enter into force on the 15th day following the publication of the law, while Article 22 thereof shall enter into force on the 15th day following the publication of the law. Pursuant to Section 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the registration data and documents of European territorial associations registered by the Metropolitan Court shall be transmitted on paper to the authority, i.e. the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, by the date of entry into force. It is unacceptable for us to have an obligation to carry out an act by law that has not yet entered into force. In view of the amendment of the rules of registration, the amendment of the rule of judicial supervision, the introduction of termination as a legal institution and, in particular, the contradictions of the provisions of entry into force, the party of the Hungarian Socialist Party abstains from the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-03-253	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I will ask if someone from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party wishes to present the group's position. [[For signal:]] Yes, press the button, please. [[It's a short break.]] We can't see him.
u2014-11-03-254	[[Matthias Firtl's microphone doesn't work, so they put a manual microphone in front of him.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The leading speakers before me have already spoken in detail about the issues on which the current bill on European territorial association is being proposed, which, in fact, has come before the Hungarian Parliament as part of the European legislative harmonisation, as already said, and what the Secretary of State has said is also important for the Christian Democratic People's Party to make some kind of efficiency progress at the moment. It has also been said here from the Secretary of State and from the Member before me that we can make significant progress in the possibility of bordering, in the relations between border settlements and regions. Indeed, I have been active in a border region for many years, and it has also been said that the Secretary of State has indicated that a kind of good relationship with the Province of Burgenland will also be established. Here I would just like to make a brief reference to the solo before me, that when, in territorial cooperation, he fears the actors in the region that they are unable to act in their own way, there are cross-border relations systems, such as the Burgenland relations system mentioned by the Secretary of State, which, in his view, only implements cooperation agreements with county presidents with governmental factors which he has not been able to implement over the past period. So we welcome the opportunity, precisely that through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these relations in our region can be achieved to a great extent. And what the previous speaker has also said, I myself say, is that it serves territorial cohesion and social equalization. He set the South-Hungarian issue as an example, and I can say from the Western border region that it is just as important for us, and the differences are just as big for us. So when we relate ourselves to a province in Burgenland, we are also trying to work to ensure that those border crossings are realised because they also provide the best opportunities for those living there, they create opportunities for businesses living there by giving them greater opportunities in the coming days. On the part of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we are proposing the adoption of the bill and the fears that have suggested that they now gain power in a central place, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, we can actually only welcome it, because there is finally a place, an important place where these issues will be addressed. So we support and propose the adoption of the draft legislation on territorial association. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-03-255	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. I'll see if your card's in there. [[Mátyás Firtl: Yes.]] Then it's either the other way around or there's been some technical error. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-03-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik supports the bill on European Territorial Association, as we welcome the effort to make the system of European Territorial Associations more transparent and support the creation of a new law in this area. However, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that much remains to be done in this area. I am thinking, for example, that if we look at the EGTC or, if you like, Egtc.kormany.hu and look at the list of European territorial associations, we can see that the data is often incomplete and we can find several associations about which we cannot find any information, there is no news there, and there is, let us say, no website address to look into what kind of activity it has done. This is a problem, in my view, because in this way it is only quite circumstantial to find out what projects an association has participated in over the past years and on which proposals it has received funds. [[20.10]] I therefore call on the Government, Mr Secretary of State, to take steps to ensure that these data are available, since cross-border cooperation has a strong impact on the country's assessment, so at the same time as adopting the bill, it would be important to update and update this website so that we can easily access these necessary data. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, of course, considers the various cross-border cooperation to be a forward-looking step, for several reasons. On the one hand, from a national political point of view, because, for historical reasons, we all know that it is extremely important to take advantage of these opportunities in order to promote relations with the torn Hungarian people, and on the other hand, of course, the aims of boosting the economy are not negligible in this respect, and so I join the previous speakers in this respect as a representative in the border region of Western Hungary. And I can certainly trust that in the seven-year planning period ahead of us, in the 2014-2020 multi-annual cycle, we will be able to seize the opportunities that can strengthen these cross-border cooperations in order to improve the situation of both our torn Hungarian brothers and those living in the truncated country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-03-257	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if someone from the LMP Group wishes to present the group's position. [[Dr. András Schiffer says no.]] The faction leader says no. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I am asking if there is anyone on the part of the independent Members who would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] They're signaling no. There's not a two-minute window. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2014-11-03-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Let me begin by congratulating the pro-government representatives that so many people are present. This is a great pleasure for me, this is a step up from last week's tax dispute. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] We very much hope that this will be the next step, that they may speak to him in later debates, and that they may argue for certain laws, so it is a pleasure to see that there are more. Mr. Secretary of State said not to build walls on our borders. The problem is that it is the last four years of the Orbán government's foreign policy that has built walls for our borders. If these are to be broken down or started, this is very commendable, and, of course, we can only support this kind of isolation policy that they are following, suspending and turning in a different direction. I would like to point out with regard to the bill that this is a transfer of an EU amendment, and in this connection there was a need to change, amend or create a new law on the 2007 legislation already adopted on European groupings of territorial cooperation. Here, basically, only EU changes should be introduced. In the whole of the law, the outrageous thing is that, by the way, the government is carrying out a series of other rights and not just passing through these amendments. I think that the changes in the EU are fundamentally eligible, and this is a very commendable thing. These must, of course, always be updated, but what kind of assassination the government is committing in this bill, taking away the positives or at least weakening them, I think is outrageous. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, also pointed out that the registration procedure for European territorial associations was transferred from the Metropolitan Court to the authority designated by the Government, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. So far, it has been the Metropolitan Court that has exercised legal oversight, and otherwise, it can be included in the legal oversight of accounts. Well, that's what's going to be transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. I would like to point out here that this will be transferred to a ministry where, by the way, 220 people have already been promised a downsizing, and we know that, since Friday, it has been possible to lay off 107 people. So here, too, is the question of how the government would even want to do this. A State Department and a foreign minister like the authority would be involved in this whole case, which we know you've known about since October 6th about the U.S. disbarment case. Since 6 October, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not been able to comment on who is affected by this case, what he is doing to remedy it and to clarify those corruption cases; what he knows about these cases where he might otherwise have been banned. So we give such an organization, such a ministry and such a minister certain additional rights? And he's been drinking for you? Which I think is outrageous, and here I would ask you in my heart...? We remember how Antal Rogán reacted to the American ban scandal. He asked if this was a joke. Now I'd like to ask you, isn't it, a joke, that to such a credible Ministry of Foreign Affairs, such a trusted foreign minister, who hasn't been able to clarify this since 6 October, would order such rights. I think that this is not going towards transparency again, although it has been highlighted by the Secretary of State, and we are fully in favour of everything that makes transactions transparent, which makes them smooth, and we can see that the various international steps that reach the country are all pointing in the direction that there is no proper transparency in Hungary. So the part of this law that introduces EU amendments is absolutely eligible, but the kind of centralization, the fact that such rights are assigned to an institution which is now decredited by the steps of the government, is unacceptable. Thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-03-259	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Magyar Levente, whether he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Hungarian Levente nod.]] He's getting ready to say yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-260	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to say that most of the speakers did not have conceptual objections to the substance of the bill. I think that we can agree, as Mr Tóth said, that the development of border regions, in this way the exploration and opening up of border regions to the outside world, is in our highest common interest for the development of the entire country. The congressman mentioned South Transdanubia. Let me tell you that you can cross Croatia every 70 kilometres on average on the Croatian border of Zala, Somogy and Baranya County. Is this an anachronistic and unacceptable situation in the middle of the European Union in 2014, with this figure? So it's an average of 70 kilometers per kilometer? in particular, we are the last in the whole European Union in this regard. So the South-Transdanubian region is typically a corner of the country where it is also of great importance for everyday life that cross-border relations be intensified. Let me give you another number: in Western Europe, the average between two border crossing points? I'm talking about road border crossings- 2-3 kilometers. We can watch the French-Belgian, watch the Belgian-Dutch, watch the border between the German-French or any other Western European, so to speak, old EU Member States. In Hungary, as I mentioned, is the national average above 20 kilometers, but towards Croatia? Like I said? There is a section where there is no possibility of crossing for 70 kilometres, but unfortunately the situation towards Romania, Serbia and Ukraine is not much more rosy. The congressman mentioned Burgenland. On the way to Burgenland? [[For signal:]] Of course? It is possible to cross every 15 kilometers, but this figure is also far below the EU average, which is once again 2-3 kilometers, so even the most advanced Slovenian and Austrian border sections in this respect are far below the Western European average, and I think that this is also an unacceptable factor in Hungary's economic situation, Hungary's history and relations with our neighbours. [[20.20]] Overall, I think that we can also talk about a success story with regard to cross-border developments. If we look at the numbers, and I suggest that we look at the numbers, the figures broadly support this statement, because I think, Madam honourable, in the light of the figures, that in the last year alone, there has been more in the area of improving cross-border relations than in your 8-year governance. When the Mária Valéria bridge was handed over between Esztergom and Párkány in the early 2000s, the road traffic between Hungary and Slovakia was 30 thousand a year, in the absence of a ferry bridge. Five years later, five years after the first Orbán government handed over this development, this figure went up to 1.5 million a year, so the number of crossings practically increased by fifty. This shows that the development that started in this area in the early 2000s has practically stopped for years afterwards. In the last year alone, we have quantified more cross-border developments than you have in eight years. So I think, Madam honourable Member, that the criticism in this regard is not fully supported by the facts. As regards criticisms of supervision, Madam President, we were driven by the intention to make the system more efficient and smoother, of course we are doing so in a manner that is fully compliant with the relevant EU and domestic legislation. So if there's any legal objection, we'll be happy to see it. At the same time, we believe that, partly due to the problem of many ETTs being created and after which it does not carry out any meaningful activity, it will practically only take government support into operation and it will not bring any added value, therefore it is justified and necessary to have closer government supervision; at the same time, which is fully open and constructive in that we will in no way terminate a European territorial association without, of course, consulting the stakeholders and even asking the political players concerned to take their views into consideration. So this right is only to be used if, indeed, an ETT does not operate in the right way and takes the subsidies in bad faith, but this has not happened so far, and I hope, on the basis of experience, that it will not happen in the future either. As far as the walls surrounding Hungary are concerned, honourable Member, let me once again turn back to what you said that Hungary is isolated. Let me say again that at the end of your governance, so in 2010? Is that what I'm saying? Hungarian-Slovak relations were at a historic low point. I think that's hard to argue. Today there has been virtually an intensive day-to-day cooperation between the two governments and between the different departments and experts of the two governments, as a result of which only four new cross-border transport links were transferred to Slovakia last year. We have undertaken to build two new motorway connections to Slovakia by 2018, take the M30 to the border, start construction in a few weeks; and build the missing part of the Rajka-Pozsony border section. In addition, a new Danube bridge in Komárom is being prepared, an Esztergom-Dragon freight ferry is being built, a new Hernád bridge is being built, and, as I said, we are starting to build on 15 new points with Slovaks next year. I think that Hungarian-Slovak relations have not been so fruitful since the change of regime. We took over practically a heap of ruins in 2010 in this respect, and we had to build where we are today with the Slovaks. But, of course, I could also mention other examples. On each border section, we work intensively to compress the border crossing points. Serbia will double the number of existing border crossing points. The relevant bilateral and internal legal decisions have been taken. At present, work is being done in two places towards Serbia to create a new border crossing point, which is only a relevant and important development because it is a country outside the EU, where it is of particular importance for Hungarians living along the border if they can connect to Hungary at as many physical points as possible. But the same is the case with Ukraine living in extremely difficult times. A new border crossing point is being built towards Ukraine, and we are also continuing to expand existing capacities, so we would also like to facilitate the relations of Transcarpathian Hungarians with the mother country in this way, even at the level of everyday life. As far as the legal inconsistencies in the bill are concerned, we will, of course, look at this, which was raised by Congressman Tóth. If that is the case, we will naturally correct this. As regards the lack of information, honourable Member, we will, of course, ensure that an up-to-date database provides information to all citizens seeking information on which EGTCs are operating, which are under registration, what projects are carried by these EGTCs. We would also like to complete the task with the reduced capacity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, as mentioned by Congresswoman. What I can tell you for sure is that we're going to have the ability to rationalize this weight loss. The dismissal of these 107 people is also part of our efforts to significantly reduce the unacceptably large number of functional staff in the Ministry, but we can provide such substantive and significant issues of Hungarian national policy and national economy to the same standard as we have done so far, and we are constantly raising them. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/804. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Committee on Budgets as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr. Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-03-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. The amendment of the 2014 Finance Act is essentially required by government decisions taken during the year and by the need for clarification in the application of the Act. I would like to point out that this is the first amendment to the 2014 Budget Act, which indicates that the budget adopted is credible and can be implemented well. The amendment is justified primarily because of the fiscal coverage of strategic corporate shareholding purchases approved by the Government. Antenna Hungária Zrt., Főgáz Zrt., Magyar Gas Tranzit Zrt. and AVE Magyarország Kft. The proposed bill together provides for the creation of expenditure appropriations of HUF 152 billion in the context of the public interest and the purchase of the bill. The proposed acquisitions result in relatively significant expenditure, but they do not increase the deficit under the EU methodology and the acquisition of all assets is of strategic importance. Let's see the details. Antenna Hungária Zrt. was it purchased in agreement with the national infocommunication strategy or with the government's decision to state that the national strategy is a key asset, including public utility assets, including digital public works? form part of the utility assets. The purchase brought back the strategically important radio and TV infrastructure, distribution and satellite transmission. [[20.30]] The purchase of the broadcasting company was also justified by the fact that the company also has infrastructure assets which determine the essential functioning of a number of services. Antenna Hungária Zrt. the acquisition is not only a financial investment, but also an investment of national strategic importance, which is intended to ensure the smoothness of the basic services provided to citizens. With the involvement of the company in public utility assets, the State has taken over and operates a unique new broadcasting technology and service in Europe. The share is originally owned by the State-owned National Infocommunications Services Ltd. bought it, but the ultimate goal is Antenna Hungária Zrt. direct ownership by the State. On the basis of the national energy strategy, it is crucial to rebuild state positions that were given up in previous years. Főgáz Zrt. took place as the next step of this process already started. Involvement in the public interest. Almost 50 percent of the company's share in private hands and the majority's share was owned by the Municipality of Budapest. The acquisition of these shares for both strategic and business purposes is the most important state-owned company in the energy sector, Magyar Város Művek Zrt. It was done with his cooperation. Thanks to the government's responsible asset policy, in recent years the role of the Hungarian state has been strengthened in strategic sectors that have a significant impact on the economy, especially in the field of energy. These market-based acquisitions have increased national wealth, helped to increase energy security, and the introduction of public utility companies in the Community will enable the sustainability and expansion of the policy of reducing costs. The Hungarian-Slovak border gas pipeline project aims at the effective integration of the Hungarian gas market into the regional gas market, thus the Hungarian Gas Tranzit Zrt., which implemented and operated the project. It also serves strategic purposes in the public interest. The relevant Directive of the European Union and, consequently, domestic legislation require the effective separation of natural gas trading and production activities from the operation of the network, which makes it necessary for the gas supply and trading company to be removed from the MVM group. According to the provisions of the Waste Act, from 1 January 2014 the provision of a public waste management service was organised by the State. Remondis Magyarország Kft., which was owned by the state last year? currently known as National Waste Management Services Ltd.? The proposal expands its scope and service area by purchasing the AVE Hungary Group. It is important to point out that the State is able to provide resources to finance the purchase of companies to be carried out by these state-owned companies by amending the 2014 Finance Act. It should also be stressed that, although some of the changes listed entail an increase in the cash flow deficit, they do not affect the sustainability of the deficit target under the 2.9 percent EU methodology and the reduction of public debt. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition, the bill contains changes in the following areas. The proposal provides the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre with the possibility of redeployment from the National Employment Fund resources to carry out vocational training tasks, given that these tasks are mainly carried out by the State's maintainer. In addition, the amendment proposes the further development of the end-of-year method of accounting for aid to established churches, in consultation with the representatives of established churches. The amendments to Annex 2 to the Budget Act on support for the general operation of local authorities and their sectoral tasks include clarification of the general operating and cultural support of municipalities in the task-based financing system and the timetable for the payment of a centralised appropriation in order to ensure coherence. Finally, the proposal contains a series of changes to the law on listing the ministries of Hungary and to the role of the Minister of Public Finance in relation to certain climate policy tasks. Dear Parliament, The draft amending budget law before you was discussed and delivered on 20 June 2014 by the Fiscal Council. In its opinion, the Council pointed out that it did not have any fundamental objections to the proposed amendments which would justify disagreement on the document submitted for its opinion. Based on all of this, I ask you to support and accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-263	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Gyula Vantara, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-264	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, CXXX 2013 on Hungary's central budget for 2014 We are discussing a proposal to amend the law. The amendment? As said in the Secretary of State's exposé? is the reason why the government has taken measures during the year, the source of which must be created now, and also? As it was said? Some need for clarification has also been raised. I'd like to stress that? As the Secretary of State said? this is the first budget amendment this year. The bill submitted contains the budgetary impact and accounting of strategic decisions concerning the previously adopted infocommunications and energy industry. Like you said before? And I'd like to confirm that right now? , the government wanted to acquire and acquire shares in strategic companies, which is intended to recapture former State positions. This will make it possible to guarantee that consumers have affordable energy supply and that energy supply will be provided at all. About buying shares, allow me to say a few words. Antenna Hungária Zrt.? As it was said? the implementation of the national infocommunications strategy and national broadcasting, once again, is subject to 100% national ownership. Főgáz Zrt.: the purchase took place in two steps, about 50 percent of a private company was purchased earlier by the state and the rest by the Municipality of Budapest. Hungarian Gas Tranzit Zrt.: in connection with the cross-border gas pipeline project of the Hungarian-Slovak Republic, the purchase became an effective means of integration into the regional gas market. Indeed, from the point of view of waste management, the provision of a public waste management service is significant under the adopted law as of 1 January 2014. This was the purpose of the National Waste Management Services Ltd. expand and purchase from the AVE Group. The aforementioned acquisitions by way of a capital increase increase increase the budget expenditure by HUF 152 billion, which calls for the current amendment of the law. The cash flow deficit increases by 0.5 percentage points in proportion to GDP, but, as explained in the bill, does not jeopardise the achievement of the result-based 2.9 percent deficit target according to the EU methodology. Besides? As it was said in the Secretary of State's Expo? in a number of priority areas - in the field of public education, child feeding and child feeding? wishes to carry out a redeployment and clarify the needs of the law. One of these? Without the need for completeness? I would like to draw attention to a few of them. The Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre is the main provider of vocational training, and a task and financial sharing can be found here: the National Employment Fund should also bear the burden of the tasks carried out by the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre. [[20.40]] It proposes to further develop the end-of-year accounting, so-called method of balance-setting, of grants to ecclesiastical public education institutions, in Annex 2 to the bill providing clarification of general cultural operating grants on local authorities based on the experience of previous years and a centralised appropriation in order to establish coherence. As has been said, the legislative proposal brings consistency with regard to the names of ministries and, finally, clarifies the rules for the use of gambling tax. I would like to confirm what the Secretary of State said: according to the law, according to the law on stability, the Government sent the draft budget proposal to the Fiscal Council on 11 June 2014 and the Council discussed, expressed its opinion on 20 June 2014 and, as has been said, did not find any indications of disagreement. On the basis of the above, I would ask my fellow Members to support and vote in favour of the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-265	Thank you very much, Congressman Vantara. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-03-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, let me clarify what we have heard from both the author and the lead speaker of Fidesz. Indeed, the Fiscal Council has not identified any circumstances that should have required it to express its disagreement with the adoption of the bill, yet, even considering that these acquisitions increase the cash flow gap by half a percentage of GDP, it draws attention to the fact that a full risk of a part of transactions increasing the deficit under the European methodology can not be ruled out, so that acquisitions of shares make the strict implementation of the budget in other areas even more important in order to ensure that the target of the deficit in accordance with the EU general government deficit target is kept safe. We do not agree that these are necessary in this way on the one hand, although I am pleased that this is only the first amendment to this legislation, and not the eighth, as it was in the debate on the closing accounts for the 2013 budget in stone. This has been done a little more successfully, but I'll come back to that later. There were also minor amendments to this proposal. First of all, I would like to mention one, above all the two speakers before me missed: this is the correction of the name of the Friends of Hungary Foundation. Do we think it's very important to highlight this because it is? Do I remember this line of HUF 642 million? In July 2013, it was my fellow Member, Vilmos Szabó, who asked Zsolt Semjén, who replied in writing that this foundation was founded in America, of which April Foley and George Pataki are the co-chairs of the Board, although if we look for this on the Internet, then Vizi E. Szilveszter is also the president of a foundation with the same name, which is registered in Hungary. Here, it is certainly necessary to explain, or at least clarify, how and which foundation has been supported and why there are two foundations with the same name, which may otherwise receive support from the budget. The second is the use of CO-quota revenues. Of course, we can see that this is a technical thing, that 50-50 percent of one and the other ministries carry out the tasks in most and all. Here I would like to draw attention to one thing that has been raised in recent debates: we are not just accountants here in Parliament, and we must not only pay attention to the balance of the numeral columns? There's an expense, there's a revenue side to the budget, should they be balanced? , it is possible to implement it, but we must also be responsible for the content. The CO quota is usually used by states to make green investments and energy-saving investments that we do not make with this money. Up to HUF 3-4 billion or HUF 2-4 billion? Considering the last few years? There is green investment, increased energy efficiency, and the implementation of calls for proposals, and the rest is simply run by the state and not used in the same way. But while we were talking about energy at the time, we had a proposal at the time; we had a proposal about using the CO quota in full, complementing it with EU funds? which has been consulted with the European Union Commissioner for Energy? , complemented by a state loan guarantee and credit, we consume less energy. It is the cheapest energy we do not consume or produce, but here we are buying energy suppliers in order to see if energy will cost less. This gives rise to short-term thinking, and here we are again asking content questions.The government now increases the budget expenditure side by HUF 152 billion, in fact it increases the deficit and spends money on purchasing service providers that should not actually be spent on. The state must provide services that no one else can provide: such is the issue of public security, such is the issue of health care, such is the issue of education, such is the question of social benefits. We see that every single forint we spent buying utility companies must be taken from it. I understand the argument put forward by the Secretary of State that by buying public utility companies from the state, they can continue with the policy of reducing the costs. We welcome every single forint that Hungarian taxpayers get back, but, Mr. State Secretary, this sentence is so complete: we buy those companies with taxpayers' money, we collect it in taxes, we spend it, and we now increase the expenditure page by 152 billion HUF. I understand that this is just a cash flow deficit, and other experts, of course, have a different opinion on this. Of course, we are also concerned about gross public debt. Are we worried because you already said so? If I remember correctly, was it still Louis Kósa? That keeping the general government deficit target could not be a national issue, and it turned out that it could be a national case when the euro and the Swiss franc were lost, and we have been struggling with it ever since. There is also a limit that we do not want to cross, but it should go from 85.1 percent to 76.9 percent at the end of 2014. Mr Secretary, in the light of our last debate in committee, I would like to remind you once again that I hope not by a trick which was also carried out in December 2013 that, at one point, the State Debt Management Centre has withdrawn a debt of HUF 729 million, which is necessary to achieve the right percentage; not for a long time, two or three weeks, so, of course, the deficit target has been reduced on paper, because, gentlemen, the paper can handle a lot of things. At that time, the general government deficit was suddenly below 78 percent of the Hungarian GDP, and then, two months later, it peaked at 84 percent. Self-deception has far cheaper ways than that. [[20.50]] We believe that the quality of public services is unlikely to be improved by the fact that these companies are owned by the state, and we are not sure that the state can and should not be able to keep up with development policy and development competition. As I said, and once again, the state must serve where no one else does. Where others provide for them, they must be regulated and checked. By regulation and control, by enforcing them, I think we can keep far ahead of those matters, rather than handing over very little to people who pay the bills, we will then collect them again in taxes. Where they can no longer raise taxes, the government will collect a product charge next year, but where it can still raise taxes, the government will give itself and the municipalities the opportunity to raise taxes. The tax package that has been submitted is important because there we see that they are seeking the balance again, so that expenditure and revenue are in balance. What we see is that the state will probably want to spend more money on this, and it will want to collect more taxes. If you pay less money, but you can buy less at the store, will you be able to buy less at the store with the 27 percent tax product fee? I'm sorry, did I just say it wrong, you can't pay less, you can buy less? Then believe me, it's not gonna turn the economy on. As we can see, sometimes numbers require an explanation. This is how Főgáz Zrt. tries to be very, very polite. 77 billion in capital increase related to its purchase, as RWE's minority package has already been paid HUF 41 billion. I think we need to explain in any way why we need to raise the MVM's capital by 77 billion. I believe that the MVM paid this out of credit earlier, and it must be repaid to the Hungarian State as owner. Obviously, the state is in a decision-making position, the board of directors of MVM is in a decision-making position, yet one still believes that there is some HUF 36 billion among them that can work. Today, we have also heard a debate that might suggest that the same money may need to be charged now, so as winter approaches, gas storage facilities and storage facilities. We can think of a lot of things about this. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to take part in the debate today in a very formal manner, and I am sorry, in a formal manner to the other State Secretarys and other representatives of the Government, to take part in the debate today and try to find out. In terms of the purchase price of HUF 41.8 billion for the share package of the Main Gas, it can be read in press reports that it will not cost that much, it will be much more expensive. That's what you can read in there. The question is, what does the government expect to see if this package needs to be changed again afterwards. In addition to maintaining our view of worrying about the general government deficit of GDP, concerned about that subconsciously silenced sentence? We shouldn't be doing this here, should we at least talk about everything? What the Fiscal Council has added to what both the Secretary of State and the lead speaker of Fidesz have said is worth reading, and then one finds such things in it. We believe that it may be worth changing policy in this regard, providing services in health care, education, the social sphere, where no one will do so instead of the state. It is worth looking at the KLIK and it is worth looking at the overdue debt of health care, and it is not worth noticing that it is not going to recover by spending 152 billion forints, that we are going to buy companies out of it. Regulators must be created and regulators must be respected and enforced. As this current bill unnecessarily increases the budget deficit and endangers compliance with the deficit target, our group will not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-03-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask whether someone from the KDNP Group wishes to present the group's position. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2014-11-03-268	Mr President, Dear House, The package before us is finally something worth discussing and arguing about, because it is not something that reminds us of last week's overhead tax package, which basically took people's reliefs all in one piece and in all, but it is finally a strategic goal, a vision that seems to emerge from the whole, where only the financial tricks should be examined, and whether, for example, in the case of purchases related to previous gas storage companies, when two or three times the difference between valuation and real value, this could have happened, whether the errors at that time were transferred to this bill and its implications, and whether they could be similar in Hungary, before which, by the way, the responsible opposition members of the then Court of Auditors and Budget Committee did not understand. We haven't been given an explanation since then to separate a certain amount by binko vote, and then you will applaud something that has an assessment available, which we either believe or not, and which is either the value of a company or not. Unfortunately, time has proven us, even though it is an extremely important area. What is the starting point of all this? Practically as early as 1995-96, the Horn government, which said to the socialist, decided to hand over electricity and gas suppliers abroad, under amazing circumstances. We know that the companies were mainly purchased by German and French companies, which were otherwise in the hands of the state, for a total of HUF 485 billion, which may seem to be a large sum at first, but even at that time it was only 9 percent of GDP. So it can be said that a small dwarf received a lousy amount of money for Hungary's investment from the other side and then paid these foreigners back in four to five years. It could also be repaid because it guaranteed investors an 8 percent return on assets by the government, which was then called Hungarian, in an amazing and impertinent way. The joke has also happened in the future that, as a result, foreign companies have been able to show an amazing profit rate, and as their efficiency has increased due to economies of scale, this guaranteed asset-proportional profit has increased even further, reaching a level above 20 per cent in some companies. Could that have happened? By the way, are you in the category of jokes? that the power was cut off at a government agency at the time, at the Office for Rural Development's office in Kaposvár, and that the power company's people gave five minutes to save data for the organization with a high national security priority. Such impertinent and amazing situations may have occurred. This is the result of the fact that strategic Hungarian companies came into the hands of the worst possible farmers, and the end result is that Hungary had to face a situation in which its wasted, sold-out, wasted and wasted assets should now be reclaimed by such laws. I claim that this goal, the goal of recovery, is correct, but the way in which it is done does not matter at all. There is no reprivatisation strategy on the part of the government. What we see every year is an assessment of what can be recovered relatively easily or relatively cheaply, so they isolate about a stadium-reconstruction amount and then buy something they know. The fact is that this is not a strategy, it is perfectly possible, and in the long term it may not lead to the achievement of our strategic objectives. However, we can also see that the amazing disproportionateness that exists between valuations, actual purchase prices and segregations would at least require that a uniform rating system should be developed in Hungary, at least in terms of valuations, to see, on the basis of objective standards, that such an asset, which, by the way, must be Hungarian strategic property, is worth what it is worth, when it is worth and in what way it is worth to be taken back. But I'll keep going. I mentioned the utility companies that were shoveling and wheelbarrowing the money from Hungary. There were governments that signed these treaties. Who's on the other side? ? if the current government thinks in accountability, as it does not think, but we will not give up; we will do so at the latest when we are given the opportunity and the authority to do so. [[21.00]] On the other hand, so those who have received a guaranteed asset-proportional profit once again, hundreds of billions of wheelbarrows have been driven out of the country, with existing state companies, state officials, government and political actors there, leaders, and therefore accountable persons and individuals. This whole process could be reviewed, and then it is not certain that we should argue, as my fellow Member Enikő Hegedűs said on numerous occasions, in a fitting manner, that we should not argue about how many hundreds of billions of dollars we buy back Hungarian national assets from impertinent investors, but, in the context of a fair accountability process, we might be able to make a new balance sheet possible. I am not saying that I am sure that we would still be owed the group of companies called investors that robbed Hungary, it is qualified, declared, and should only be enforced in the courts, but I do say that much more favourable strategic positions could be taken up. Companies that are important strategic firms will be listed in the proposal before us. In the case of Antenna Hungaria, I do not believe that this can be debated, nor in the case of Main Gas. At the same time, I would encourage the government to come up with a real reprivatisation strategy. I'll give you an example. 75 percent of the Channel Works, 50 percent of the Gasworks, 50 percent of the public lighting works, are owned by the ELME, which is of foreign interest. I'm not saying this right now, that's what we said before you introduced the first so-called reduction package. However, we have drawn attention to strategic companies where previous consumer maladministration also exists. It would also be worth reviewing the previous contracts, either at the capital or at national level, and in this respect it would be possible to re-install many of these companies and groups of companies into Hungarian ownership. So I'm not sure you're going in the direction that you're going to go in, the most effective, the fastest, the most effective. It is possible to take over companies and positions that could be rightfully, legally and through the revision of earlier contracts, which were born in otherwise interesting circumstances, back into Hungarian hands. So it is possible, an iconic example, the privatisation of the Metropolitan Waterworks and the Metropolitan Channel Works, and Parliament has not discussed this either, since the first round of so-called overhead cuts. It's good if it came up once a year. As you know, here too, in 97 a French-German consortium purchased a quarter of the shares in Waterworks for a total of HUF 17 billion. That's the top of the joke! In all these years, have governments called accountants not been able to deal with this amazing matter? And what else was in the contract? Foreign owners can delegate the managers to the management and withdraw their profits from the company annually. In the same way and at a value, they also sold most of the Channeling Works in 97, so it can be seen that they are not individual cases that we are talking about. Indeed, this separation of HUF 152 billion in the package before us requires at least reflection on what kind of companies could have been raisinsed, what market positions could have been occupied. This would require a national inventory of assets, where not only some of the state's assets are registered, as they did in the middle of the previous cycle, but someone should finally assess what remains of our family silver, what companies need to be recovered, what can and what is worth considering as strategic Hungarian companies. You are sabotaging this work for much more than a cycle now. Without a national inventory, we simply don't know what to cook from, we don't know what to increase in the future, we don't know what to preserve. And even more importantly, if there's no inventory of assets and there's no responsibility for preservation, then we can't account for the miscarriage. So it is quite impertinent that, in all these years, we have failed to move forward in this area. But we could go further than this bill and this package. After all, if we look at the fact that utility service providers should and can be transformed into non-profit companies, then we are talking about a fundamentally supportive goal, one that maybe 99 out of 100 people in the street are supporting. But we also need to look at the fact that a company called a nonprofit can also produce artificially structured revenue and expenditure pages. So this alone is not a guarantee that the Hungarian people will benefit better. The only guarantee in itself is that we can exercise at least control rights over our strategic companies. I'll give you an example. It could help to legislate that, in the event of a recession period, when supported by different economic indicators, a Ressisttop will automatically enter into force. This would be a completely justified step and similar methods are used in many parts of the world. In Hungary, in addition to the current ownership structure, this is virtually impossible. This is precisely why we should move, the first point of which could be a detailed accountability process with previous contracts and finally filling the defendant's bench in terms of the rightful punishment for those who have helped to play the Hungarian strategic assets into foreign hands. We could continue the line in terms of eliminating huge differences in quality and price between the capital city and the countryside, or even the need for a series of consumer raids on the billing systems, interest rates and administrative surfaces of large service providers. So there's plenty to do. At this point, I feel that I have drawn attention to the most important shortcomings and omissions, in addition to the fact that the recovery of national wealth and strategic positions will always be supported by Jobbik if it is done in a fair, thought-out way, with a measured value system, at a normal value for money. Therefore, it should not happen again, as in the previous cycle, when multiples of the amount required were tried to be separated and there were huge differences between the purchase price and the framework to be used. This HUF 152 billion, by the way, is a huge sum, let's declare it. But if strategic Hungarian corporate parts are saved from this, they will be returned, then I feel that Hungary is spending this money more intelligently than if it had spent it on countless other government luxury investments or expenditures. But without a well-thought-out strategy, without a national inventory, you do not cure the disease, you only use symptomatic treatment. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-269	Thank you very much. [[To L. Simon László and Dr. Rózsa Hoffmann talking at the edge of the benches:]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to step out into the corridor. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-03-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The bill before us contains several amendments. The most important is the 152 billion-dollar adjustment due to the purchase of public companies. We would point out that, in principle, LMP is not opposed to increasing Community ownership in the strategic sectors, in sectors that provide basic needs. However, this must be done with responsibility for taxpayers and sound professional background work. In Hungarian, it is only possible to support a takeover or purchase that is not carried out at a disproportionate purchase price, and there is an idea of what role and how the company will play, and these plans are public. None of these conditions have been met. In addition, according to the government, nationalisation, which consumes 152 billion HUF, does not increase the budget deficit because it has the same amount of wealth. That's not true for many reasons. With good reason, once we spend more than we have income, we increase the deficit. Buying assets is not a decisive argument, because, as found out at MOL or E.ON gas, the Fidesz government buys at double, triple price, which, if necessary, can be sold at half- and a third price, so the deficit would increase. On the other hand, other investments from the budget are not deducted from the deficit, even if they create value. Therefore, there is no basis in principle for these investments to be subject to a different assessment. And if that were not enough, even the Budget Council, which issued an opinion on the amendment, did not take the view that this would leave the deficit and debt intact. We believe that the cash flow deficit will rise by 0.5 percent, and therefore it is unlikely that the government debt will decrease this year, to a negligible extent. This increases the risks associated with the maintenance of deficits and public debt. The proposal also addresses the redistribution of revenues from trade in CO2 allowances. At this point, we see signs of panic and haste on the steering side, not unduly. Public energy efficiency proposals issued by the government have just recently drowned in chaos. [[21.10]] The fact that the number of applicants was too large or the amount of aid available has proved ridiculously small is irrelevant from the point of view of the outcome. This is the number one government meltdown in the green energy sector. We are talking about a sector that is a sector that is a driving sector for job creation throughout Western Europe and an engine for economic growth. In Hungary, however, the government has been keeping the sector in an artificial coma since 2010, which is only being reported in connection with a major corruption scandal or other anomaly. Wind power plants have not been built since the entry into office of the Orbán Cabinet, solar applications have been withdrawn due to obvious corruption, and the price of a quarter of a stadium has not been allocated to the energy modernisation of family homes in four years. This unique series was crowned by the drowning of the current boiler, window and household machine replacement applications. The government, which secretly tests society's tolerance before any political decision, is now supposed to be unprepared for much more people than the system can serve in technical or financial terms. However, Hungary does not seem to achieve so much better that state aid does not mean much to tens of thousands. For this reason, and in terms of the environmental and social objectives pursued, government austerity is incomprehensible, as a real, sustainable reduction in household energy would be precisely the help of the state to help families reduce the use of energy at home. Now, as usual, at the last minute, they are trying to rescue the salvageable by law, releasing some of the quota revenues for the purpose for which these revenues would inherently serve, reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the energy modernisation of homes. Last year, LMP pointed out that 100 percent of quota revenues should actually serve this purpose, instead of patching the budget holes, compared to 50 percent and 25 percent, which are generously authorised in the current legislative amendment. If the government had listened to the warning in time, it would not have had to ridicule itself in front of the whole country, without the appropriate resources, with energy efficiency proposals with insufficient IT infrastructure, and not to embarrass the budget of that year in the second-to-last month of 2014, making budget planning and parliamentary control of public spending illusory. And speaking of the so-called reduction in overhead costs, we have seen that the government is extremely interested in the use of the billing and the use of the accounts for energy accounts, and we recommend that the following inscriptions be put into law on the energy accounts: Dear Citizens! The reason why we still have to pay so much for the energy bill is because the government does not support a reduction in domestic energy consumption. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-03-271	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we are going to have further speeches. First, I give the floor to the first candidate, Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-11-03-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to address two issues. One of the things we have discussed before is whether Community-owned public services are cheaper or more expensive; I think it is possible to argue whether this is necessary or not to nationalise these service providers or not. By the way, I think that the direction that the government has chosen to make a community-owned public service can be effective, but this particular proposal, which is before us, is not. This thing costs a lot, and we lose sight of the real goal, and the real goal is to make sure that these bills do not go through the roof. We think the government is wasting money. It is a waste because it spends on this area without actually buying efficiency or meaningful services. As we analyze this waste, I have to come up with a third example, and I have to say, this is the other thing I'd like to talk about right now. It's been a long time since I've been unsolved. in the district, the situation of the Gas Factory housing estate. In fact, many of us have talked about this here in the House, in a previous comment, and in my speech I spoke about the impossible situation of the now 100-year-old gas plant. This is the housing estate that was previously in the hands of the Metropolitan Gasworks, which was built a hundred years ago, and this is the housing estate which, when the capital itself was transferred to the hands of the housing estate, still has unorganized relations. They don't spend enough money to keep you safe, but if I just give you the most professional example, for example, renters get checks where they have to figure out the amount they're going to put in here themselves. Perhaps it would be a box of honor if, by the way, the rent increases that happen would inform the tenants; this often does not happen. In many cases, the bills also arrive late, with tenants in debt that they have not actually received the check yet. Similarly, did it occur to you that when the capital was quoted? To this day, he managed to settle the situation of the tenants, so that some who had to pay a rent of HUF 120,000 for an apartment in which he lived and was born, and in which his father and mother were born. Is that how it was arranged? In quotes? the situation of the Gas Factory housing estate and the situation of its inhabitants, that in many cases, the housing estates of one family have a different one, while the other family has a new contract. Some have been given a contract with the citational sign to get the lease for their eternal life, but some people just get the lease as long as you work at the Gas Factory, the Metropolitan Gas Works. Once again, we're talking about tenants who were born in this property, or whose father or grandfather lived in this property and grew up in it. When the Metropolitan Gasworks were put into the state's hands, I asked the competent minister a written question asking whether the fate of the Gas Factory would now be settled, whether the gas plant would be removed from its stepchild status, and whether it would now be settled that the people living here would be in worthy circumstances. I was told that this was not covered by reprivatisation, and that these conditions are still in the hands of the capital, since the fate of the Gas Works estate remained in the hands of the capital. I would simply like to say here that, in relation to a historic building, the takeover from the capital property, which could have been thought of and should have been considered, has not been a solution for a community. To date, this remains an unresolved issue in Article III. in the district. Of course, many jokes were made when one of the mayor's candidates held a press conference in front of the renovated factory building behind the Gas Factory, when he drew attention to the disorder of the housing estate, but the real thing is that the gas plant itself has actually been renovated by the government, but the housing site itself, where people live, has not been eliminated. In fact, people who live there don't care who they're dealing with, and they honestly don't care if the capital is its owner, the district government is its owner, or the state is its owner, but do they care if these problems have been present since the privatisation of the Main Gas? So it's not current problems? , they have a bearing on the solution; this has not happened. It didn't happen now when the government would have had the opportunity to focus on this community or this housing site; I consider this to be a serious mistake. I also think it is a serious mistake that the government has quite simply forgotten to settle the issue of the gas plant in relation to the recovery of the Main Gas, which, in effect, can be said to have a serious negative impact on the locals. [[21.20]] I have already drawn attention to the fact that we are talking about a building complex that was built a hundred years ago, a building complex that has been hosting a community that has been workers and employees of the Gas Factory for a hundred years, a community that has been united for almost a hundred years and that has been in this situation for a hundred years. I would like to ask the government in this place, too, and I know that this is not strictly part of this agenda, but if we can talk about it, we may have a shot at it, but please let the government monitor closely the situation of this community as well. And if it has not been possible to reach a solution with this community that the community itself deserves, then it will be examined later whether there is a legislative possibility to resolve these problems. Is there a legislative possibility for the deterioration of the conditions of a 100-year-old housing community of incredible architectural value and the deterioration of buildings itself to stop? Is there any legal possibility for this community to receive that kind? By the way, are you insured for everyone? right to create leases that clearly and reassuringly settle everyone's fate? You can imagine how ridiculous it is to have a lease today that if you lose your job, you will also lose your place of residence, once again, in a house in which you are not only born, but also your father, mother, or grandparents. Is it possible for the government to examine the situation of the gas plant housing site, and if it has not already taken place in this state recovery, what can we do to resolve these problems? Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-03-273	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-11-03-274	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on two points in the bill amending the 2014 budget. One of these concerns the tax revenues, the revenue from the gaming tax and the sports betting tax, the modification of their use, the re-allocation of their use, which, by the way, goes back to the Prime Minister's favourite sport, and will deal with MLSZ, training for replacements. We hope that in the future the quality of Hungarian football will be improved, and that the money that is actually put into certain sports will be refunded in this way and will enhance the reputation and past of our country in these sports. In any case, it is strange that when more than 500 000 children live in circumstances where they do not eat hot food every day, this is the most important aspect, and from this source of income, such goals must be financed, not those who live in the most difficult situation in Hungary today; among other things, because they introduced single-key 16 percent personal income tax, which is extremely unfair and puts a lot of people in a difficult situation. But there is another point in this bill, a HUF 152 billion increase in the budget budget budget, which is due to the purchase of shares in companies that are considered strategically important. Here at Főgáz Zrt. I would like to point out that we are talking about an MVM capital increase here. That's 77 billion forints. But let's see what an MVM is, by the way, and what kind of transactions he's involved in, which, by the way, the government is just pushing the money around. We remember, and in the press several times, the government's been playing gas for years for fidesz offshore companies. They brought cheap gas from Austria into the country via MVM by using it to replenish strategic supplies. However, this quantity was transferred to MET Zrt. owned by the Fidesz offshore companies instead of the tanks, which sold the cheap gas with a significant profit. By the way, these transactions provided these companies with a profit of more than HUF 100 billion a year with these tricks. And by the way, I must add that this is no different for the energy sector. And while we are at the gas reservoirs, it would be good to know what the exact ratio is right now, if these gas reservoirs are uploaded, because, by the way, we have managed to close the reverse gas transport to Ukraine with the reference to the fact that it is necessary to upload the domestic gas reservoirs and to train strategic stocks here with the coming of winter; which, in the opinion of experts, is a very good goal; it is also due to such information that this quantity, which we have transported to Ukraine, would not have been significantly reduced and would not have affected the uploading of gas reservoirs. So the safety of the Hungarian people would not have been compromised in any way. So it's a question of who, by the way, has hundreds of billions in their pockets for such transactions. And, by the way, it's precisely because of these opaque cases that we've come to the point that we're experiencing such strong diplomatic action as the US ban action. And by the way, here's the question of how much money you want to put in the MVM, especially under these circumstances, and when you're going to start a responsible policy. In addition, I would like to conclude that it seems that we are not only talking about a barrel that absorbs bottomless money when we are talking about MVM, but also about the escape route of fallen Fidesz Vice Mayors. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-11-03-275	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll see if anyone else wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. It says yes. You have the floor, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő.
u2014-11-03-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. If I may, I would like to respond briefly to what has been said in this debate. In summary, I am pleased to note that most of the speakers agreed that purchasing strategically important companies is a state task and agreed with the main directions of the bill tabled by the government in this sense. I can reassure everyone that the government's deficit reduction and debt reduction will also be achieved if the proposal is adopted. With this, I have moved on to the points raised by Mr László Szakács, and I can confirm once again that the proposal submitted does not affect the deficit under the European Union methodology, as the purchase of assets at market prices is based on an valuation, thus increasing the state's wealth. Therefore, according to the Union accounting rules, the deficit under the Union methodology is not increasing. As regards public debt, without any tricks, based on Eurostat's public data, and thus on the basis of the public data of the statistical body of the Union, the Hungarian government debt has continuously decreased over the last three years. Based on public data for 28 countries, only three countries were able to do this: Latvia, Austria and report: Hungary. So, given the practice of recent years, I think that the experience is positive, and the government has tabled an amendment to the budget law before you in such a way that it intends to continue to reduce public debt this year. I must add that, after 2010, the new Parliament created a legislative environment which, by a two-thirds majority, ensures that the current government prepares and implements a budget proposal that leads to a reduction in public debt. [[21.30]] This strict rule must be followed until the debt-to-GDP ratio reaches 50 per cent. I stress that we are talking about two-thirds legislative provisions on the economic stability of Hungary. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned that this is the first amendment, and it is a happy thing that, compared to 2013, we can only talk about the first amendment. Let me recall, then, that in 2013 the first two amendments were also strategically important in the purchase of E.ON, and the other legislative amendments, I think, have made changes that included both in terms of the expansion of state assets and, for example, in terms of educator wage increases, positive changes for the state as a whole. Returning to the specific points, Mr President, he asked about the use of the CO2 quota, and that is what Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck pointed out. I would like to reassure everyone that Hungary is financing green investment expenditure from the revenues of the CO2 quota to the extent set out in Community rules in accordance with Community rules. Of course, these green investments can also be financed from other sources, so I would remind everyone that the environmental and energy operational programme or the energy efficiency operational programme within the EU programmes, as far as the new period is concerned, also allocates significant resources for green investment purposes. Mr President, the dilemma is that prices should be controlled by regulation or property. I believe that through regulation and property. Can you recall that a number of strategic companies, even in the gas sector, were sold during the previous period? in the case of Main Gas in 1997? where strategic companies were purchased by other state companies. So for me, a logical question is why it is worth it, why it is logical that another country holds state-owned companies. I think that the answer is clear: these strategic firms have local or absolute monopolies, and it is therefore of national strategic importance that these companies be state-owned, and, as Dániel Z. Karpát said, the owner should not be able to turn off a button, endangering the task of the state as a whole, citizens, businesses and municipalities in strategic areas. So I think that the government is following the path that we can see as a good example in many European countries: by regulation and property it wants to stop energy prices. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr My answer is lower prices and energy efficiency. In both areas, the government, I think, has taken a number of steps. The figures for the reductions are well known and the use of energy efficiency sources can be monitored, for example, in the planned use of these EU funds for 2014-2020. With regard to numerical issues, the proposal submitted clearly outlines why and for what purposes resources will be allocated. There's no contradiction in numbers. The purchase of the shares in Főgáz took place at two paces, from the former German owner, on the one hand, and from the capital, on the other hand, the purchase of these shares, and the absolute amount is corrected by the fact that Gas Tranzit Zrt. Some of its shares in MVM will be transferred directly to the State, as stated in the general statement of reasons for the bill submitted, for compliance with EU legal requirements. Magyar Gas Tranzit Zrt. has passed since the submission of the bill. a minor correction was required for the purchase of its share. I am already here telling this House that an amendment to the proposal is expected to be tabled in this respect. Mr President, Mr President, you have pointed out that the resources that the amending proposal would like to devote to the use of strategic firms could be used to reduce debt. Here I would like to highlight the bill for next year's budget before the Honourable Parliament, which allocates HUF 60 billion for this purpose in the event that the financial sustainability management of the institutions concerned improves, so there will be changes that will prevent the increase in public debt or debt. Here, as an example, it should be noted that the debt relief in the municipal area, which was carried out in several stages, ensured the responsible management of local authorities by introducing rules to prevent debt from being re-produced, in addition to taking over the debt. The point is therefore: I can reassure Mr President that, in order to reduce the debt of budgetary bodies, the Government intends to provide concrete measures and the necessary resources for this in the budget next year. With regard to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's comments, it is important to point out that next year's budget proposal does not take away the savings in households as a result of the reduction in overhead costs, ensuring that these will continue to apply next year. However, with regard to the substantive issues of the proposal submitted, I repeat: there is a meaningful valuation behind all purchasing decisions, these valuations ensure that the shares are purchased at an actual market price and not above that. As regards economic policy orientation, property policy orientation: the Parliament elected in 2010 also adopted new legislation in the area of asset management. I believe that this new legislation must be the basis for more responsible public asset management than before. And economic policy, I think, is uniform in terms of the fact that in recent years a significant consolidation of public finances has been achieved and Hungary has come out of the excessive deficit procedure after 9 years, and the debt reduction, based on the figures of international organisations, is achieved by means of a debt reduction that is not achieved by expending state assets, the state has money not by selling out family silver, but by providing the opposite process. So I think that the reduction of debt and the reduction of deficit could have been achieved with the expansion of public wealth, and this is an unparalleled value in Europe. This is the economic policy that the governments that have been elected since 2010 intend to follow, and we can see the impression of this in the budget proposal that we are looking at right now. With regard to the proposals made by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, I must confirm that not only the CO2 quota's revenues are available for energy efficiency purposes, but, as we can see in the Finance Act or the Final Act, there are a number of additional resources available for energy efficiency purposes. With regard to Mr László Kiss, allow me to quote the words of the Member. Congressman also said that the direction the government proposes can be effective. This is where I see that the representative of all the political groups who have contributed to the debate has basically agreed with the proposal. Allow me, Congressman, to try to quote what you said: shopping can cost a lot of money, because the aim is to make the amount of services available at affordable prices, to ensure that services are available at affordable prices, and not to move prices to the sky. I think that if we look at statistical figures, the government's aim after 2010 was to avoid price rises, to avoid price increases such as those we saw in the previous period, and this proposal, Főgas, or the public ownership of other companies, also reflects this intention. [[21.40]] Mr President, Mr President, you also mentioned that the problems of the gas plant have existed since the privatisation of the Main Gas. I think that this is the root of the problem or this could be one of the root causes of the problem. If this strategic company had not been sold in 1997, perhaps this problem would not have been raised. I agree with the Member that both the government and the capital must use all means necessary to ensure that the maintenance of the housing estate of high importance mentioned by you can be achieved. Finally, allow me to respond to Mrs Márta Demeter's voice. As regards the clarification of the use of toy tax revenues, here the amendment to the sports law adopted by the Honourable Parliament brings the proposed amendment in line with the use of toy tax revenues. I think the goal is noble, to support replacement education. I stress that this is a proposal for legal coherence. The congresswoman mentioned that perhaps more should be spent on the food for children. In this regard, too, I would like to quote next year's budget bill on the table of the Honourable Parliament, where the government intends to substantially increase the resources for child feeding. If this is accepted by the honourable Parliament, more resources will be available in substance for the purpose mentioned by the Member. As regards the operation of offshore companies, it should be recalled once again that, after 2010, the Government submitted new laws to the Honourable Parliament in this respect, and they were accepted by the Parliament. So today there are much stricter rules for relations with offshore companies, state aid cannot be granted to them... [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: But they get it!]] State aid cannot be granted to them. And if someone has specific information on the violation of the law, I think that this violation needs to be specifically indicated and that the infringement must be rectified. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: We'll signal it!]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to express my confidence in seeing the general support of the factions in addition to the government's economic policy in this regard? in particular, the continuation of acquisitions of assets, the expansion of public assets, and the reduction of public debt and the general government deficit? I should like to express my hope that the honourable Parliament will accept the proposal tabled. Thank you so much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-03-277	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 16 o'clock on Thursday. [[Noise from Jobbik's benches. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on scientific research, development and innovation will follow up until closure. The submission is T/1768. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2014-11-03-278	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, 189 years ago, on 3 November, István Széchenyi offered a year's income for the foundation of the Hungarian Society of Sciences. Is this day, November 3rd, the National Assembly of 2003? Do I have to do the math? XCIII. by law he declared it a festival of Hungarian science. Can we be more committed to the noble gesture of the great predecessors at the celebration of Hungarian science than to the creation of a bill on scientific research, development and innovation? Ladies and gentlemen, For a long time this law has been waiting for itself, which shows government science policy efforts in a unified institutional and financing system, even though we have long known that Hungarian science is a resource, a point of breakout of the development mind, and competitive innovation is an investment. In the years following the change of regime, the management of Hungarian research, development and innovation was trapped between the state and the undeveloped market, and this situation was necessarily bad for both science and research funding. The system of strategic planning, coordination and implementation of science and research governance has been characterised by continuous restructuring since 1990. The financial resources and institutional systems of research, development and innovation have been partly created, partly revived, and the funding mechanisms that have also ensured the transfer of financial resources to researchers have not developed a stable system. The academic and university research community and market players have started to work together more and more promisingly. One of the spectacular elements of this process is the emergence of innovative enterprises in higher education institutions, while on the other hand, R &amp; D activity has become increasingly prominent among market players. In addition to the active research, development and innovation activities of certain key companies at sectoral level, research, development and innovation activities have become increasingly important for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the last 10-15 years. These backgrounds, trends and the fragmentation of available resources have led to the government's recognition that in the future it is necessary for government science policy and the allocation of resources to be carried out by an institution with sufficient weight, in close cooperation with relevant research institutions, higher education and market participants. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's Fundamental Law makes it the duty of the government to define the state tasks of science policy, scientific research, development and innovation and to ensure the conditions necessary for their implementation. Following the change of regime, in particular the collapse of the communist dictatorship, no system of science management has been established in Hungary so far, which defined the domestic priorities of research, development and innovation, and then financed, implemented and monitored their implementation. In recent years, central management of research, development and innovation and funding have been fragmented, making it even more difficult to build and coordinate developments along logically medium-term strategies. The end of this process is that today Hungarian research, development and innovation do not have a single government institution that can be displayed both internally and abroad. On the other hand, the current Hungarian government has repeatedly stated that research, development and innovation are opportunities to break out for our country, including the Hungarian economy, and this is the key to our country's competitiveness and future. In addition to the processes outlined so far, honourable Members, several Hungarian research on R &amp; D and innovation has also found that although the European Union's support policy is primarily aimed at supporting and regional development of small and medium-sized enterprises, innovation cooperation encouraged by policy seems to be in practice inefficient. The most important lesson from research into the innovation activity of small businesses is that the Hungarian innovation system reaches small and medium-sized enterprises only moderately, and at that time we were still subtle. SMEs that are newly engaged in innovation are barely supported, rather than are encouraged by innovative enterprises, but are also poorly encouraged. In addition to the lack of funding, the bureaucratic operation of the Hungarian tender system has made it very difficult to innovate the small and medium-sized enterprise sector and its long-term growth. Given that more than half of the domestic resources of the current EU development period target the SME sector, and a large part of this target is research, development and innovation, this must be changed in order to allow the country to take advantage of this unique opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, The most important factors for research, development and innovation are well-educated researchers, efficient higher education, academic sector and industrial research sites, competitive tendering systems to fund research programmes and stable government administration of the sector. [[21.50]] The bill aims to ensure efficient financing of research, development and innovation workshops in Hungary through the renewal of public administration, international relations and programme funding. It wants to deliver the resources where they are most useful and will bring the most benefits to science and the Hungarian economy. It aims to strengthen and attract the best Hungarian research, development and innovation workshops and to provide a stable scientific development background for the growth of the national economy through innovation. Management, international relations and programme funding will have an impact on the work of scientific institutions, development and innovation workshops, and even on the training of professionals. This is not done by institutional restructuring, but by organic development, by delivering resources to the best and most efficient research, development and innovation workshops, thus creating a favourable environment for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the operation of large enterprise research centres in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It is clear that research, development and innovation will be a key factor in the development of the economy in the decades ahead. In order to ensure the efficient use of research, development and innovation resources, it is necessary to regulate at the statutory level the autonomy of scientific research as well as innovation ensuring the competitiveness and income-generating capacity of the Hungarian economy and society in order to make an effective contribution to sustainable social and economic development, job creation and growth. It has become clear all over the world that the knowledge-based society, the knowledge-based economy, is the key to the competitiveness of the economy. Those who recognize this and are able to compete with it will grow, and those who do not will be left behind. World-class exploration research, targeted development and productive innovation are essential factors for a competitive economy. The conditions for this are staff policy focusing on excellence, an efficient institutional system, but, above all, predictable, transparent, focused competition funding. One of the most important problems of the current fragmented institutional and financing system, as I have already mentioned, is the lack of coordination, bureaucratic and non-uniform use of resources resulting from the lack of institutional fragmentation and strategic management, the simultaneous presence of the resulting waste and shortage. Ladies and gentlemen, How can we better deliver the available financial resources to the right place? Of course, this should be done as efficiently, as quickly as possible, as transparently and as predictablely as possible. There is an urgent need for an efficient institutional system, a single approach to allocation of resources, the procedure of which ensures that the scientific institutional system and market participants can use the available resources on the basis of nearly identical conditions and rules, regardless of whether they originate from domestic, EU or international agreements. The only option is to set up an office called an international funding institution, where the funding available for basic research, development and innovation is coordinated in the context of the work on policy planning and this activity. However, this also entails changing the existing principles in the field. The most important principle of renewing the system of research, development and innovation and funding should be that the most important measure of effectiveness in exploratory research is scientific excellence, i.e. an essential and recognised contribution to the knowledge of humanity. The measure of effectiveness in the development is the actual achievement of the projected technologically, economically or socially relevant objective. In innovation, the measure of effectiveness is the economic or social product, technology and profit resulting from the use of research or development results. The effectiveness of research, development and innovation is measured differently, but these three areas are multi- and non-linearly interlinked. This very complex relationship calls for unified governance. The bill aims to make the institutional system of public grants more coordinated, transparent and effective than the current practice by establishing the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, transforming the current Research and Technology Innovation Fund and placing it under the direction of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, and implementing a single funding of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to clarify in this House what is new in this law, how different and how much more it means than the laws that have been in force. The following were the government's concerns when drawing up this bill. Is parallel funding the biggest problem of Hungarian research, development and innovation? Have I referred to that more than once? The main reason for this is the lack of coordination of tender funding. On the other hand, the consequences of funding programmes are extremely heterogene, and therefore transparent, uniform-minded tendering, criticism, decision-making and financing mechanisms cannot be implemented. Thirdly, it is also a major problem that domestic research funding has not yet identified a priority that would give home research sites the opportunity to break out and has not taken into account national and EU major science policy objectives. Fourthly, in the current tender scheme, the risk-based investment option is minimal; even though there is a good idea, if it proves to be risky, it has not received any support. Thus, very good ideas and products have died at the beginning of the innovation process. Fifthly, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the patent processes of their intellectual products are uncertain and difficult to handle. Sixthly, with the short, medium- and long-term strategic goals set by the government, domestic research funding has not always been fully in line. Ladies and gentlemen, The former issues of strategic importance are addressed by the current bill, within the institutional framework of an office that, following a well-thought-out scientific funding policy, creates and enhances the added value of scientific research, development and innovation to the national economy. It should be stressed that while the state cannot take over the fundamental role of businesses in the field of development and innovation, it is important for governments at the same time to establish framework conditions that encourage companies to research, develop and innovate. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the domestic renewal of scientific research policy by adopting the bill before you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-279	Before the keynote speeches take place, I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, who is under the Parliamentary Act 39. § (1) and Article 35 of the house rules. He indicated his intention to speak in accordance with paragraph 3 of Section 3. Mr President, you have a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-11-03-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen. The role of the State Audit Office is defined by law to support good governance and the legislative work of the Parliament with its experience. In addition to our primary control activity, therefore, our advisory, opinion-forming function is highlighted. Our aim is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of public services institutions and systems; our controls and analyses will bring about positive changes that will improve the daily lives of citizens. This has been reflected in the increased support for legislation and parliamentary work in recent years, in strengthening our advisory activities and in the systematic work that we intend to contribute to the fulfilment of the constitutional obligation to reduce proportionate public debt. Almost a year ago, I spoke in the parliamentary debate of the Competition Act, when Parliament discussed the amendment of the law on unfair market conduct and the prohibition of competition. Once again, there is a topic on the agenda on which I would like to share with you our experience and suggestions, as the subject of the bill on scientific research, development and innovation is linked to a wide range of experience from the Court of Auditors. [[22.00]] The economy of OECD Member States is increasingly based on knowledge and information. It is widely accepted that knowledge is the only way to increase productivity and economic growth. As a result, innovation, technological renewal and learning have played a central role in economic performance. In a knowledge-based market economy, growth in prosperity, performance and employment is determined by the dynamic development of knowledge intensity and high technology. The core of the model is the creative, proactive, educational and mobile workforce and the development of innovation systems. The European Union's Lisbon and then Europe 2020 strategy includes objectives for increasing competitiveness and supporting R &amp; D. In line with the related national commitments, the State Audit Office is looking for opportunities to contribute to the development of sectors relevant to competitive knowledge, and to the better use of the knowledge created in Hungary. Several analyses are currently being carried out on competitive knowledge, education and research and development issues. Are we preparing for the operation of the Hungarian research institute system? Based on previous Court of Auditors audits? an overall assessment, which will be published in the coming weeks. Honourable Members, In March this year, we closed the inspection of agricultural research and conservation institutes and published our report on this. The management of four research institutes between 2008 and 2012 has been examined, and in one case the operation between 2008 and 2010 has been assessed in terms of whether the Ministry of Managing Rural Development has performed its management tasks in accordance with the rules, and on the other hand, whether the research institutions have managed properly with the public funds entrusted to them, and whether their organisational and regulatory frameworks and control systems have been properly developed. To sum up, we have identified shortcomings and irregularities in almost all areas assessed. It was found that during the period under review, the Ministry of Managing Bodies did not establish a system of professional expectations, requirements, documented follow-up and evaluation of the research activities of the institutions, and that accountability was therefore limited. In the case of the audited institutions, the revised appropriations for revenue and expenditure were significantly higher than the initial appropriations each year, which shows the unsubstantiated nature of the planning. During the period under review, the institutions did not carry out cost calculations despite the legal requirement, and their internal control systems did not ensure proper functioning. Management risk management and monitoring systems have not been operated by the institutions and no risk analysis has been carried out. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Part of the funding for research and development appears in higher education in Hungary, in the research university network. The Court's audit series covering all state and two church higher education institutions in Hungary is ongoing. So far, nine reports have been published and more than twenty institutions are being audited. Overall, we have found a huge number of irregularities and shortcomings in our audits at universities and colleges. To sum up the experience of our reports published so far, the control environment in the majority of universities and colleges was characterised by weaknesses in the risk management and monitoring system and the functioning of the control activities did not comply with the standards. The exercise of management powers is irregular in the majority of the institutions, some institutions have violated the rules on public procurement, more than half of the institutions have not managed student expenses in the account held by the Hungarian Treasury, and the fees have not always been based on cost calculations. In the balance sheets of some institutions, the amount of errors detected exceeded the significant amount specified in the relevant government regulation, the detection, classification or valuation of claims and, in part, liabilities were not regular in several cases. The authenticity of the assets and liabilities was not fully supported by a number of institutions and some of the institutions did not draw up an asset management plan. Based on the findings of our inspections, we have made use of the question of personal responsibility in dozens of cases, and in many cases we have used an indication to the authorities and investigative bodies with jurisdiction in the case in question. Although our audits on universities and colleges do not directly cover the educational and scientific activities of the institutions, the irregularities detected raise a number of questions in this regard. How transparent, efficient and effective could the use of public funds for research and development have been when universities and colleges were so widely characterised by irregularities? Honourable Members, In recent years, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences' research network has been reorganized, taking into account, among other things, the former recommendations and recommendations of the SAO in the field. We know this conclusion from the statements of the former leaders of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but the SAO is not satisfied with that, and we are also checking the area. The revision of the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the management and task of certain priority research institutes are in the reporting phase, and will be published within a month or two. The audit of the financial and asset management of the National Innovation Office is currently in the current control phase. An ongoing audit is also carried out at the National Intellectual Property Office in the framework of the control of the financial and asset management of certain institutions of the central subsystem. A so-called pre-study analysis is currently under preparation for the monitoring of national basic scientific research programmes. The revision of the analysis was justified by the submission of the draft legislation on scientific research, development and innovation on the agenda on 27 October 2014 that the organisation will end with its successor on 31 December 2014. Honourable Members, In the course of the operation of research institutions and research and development systems, there is a fundamental risk of a continuous contradiction between virtually unlimited potential opportunities for scientific activity, its perspectives and the hard limits imposed by financial and economic conditions. The management of this requires the establishment of a clear, transparent operational and management set of rules. The enforcement of the rules requires effective internal control in all areas of operation. Risks arising from complex institutions and support sources may result in duplication of tasks and use of resources, as well as the lack of certain tasks. It is important that high-level strategic expectations, requirements, objectives are clearly and realisticly formulated, and then that the heads of each organisation make them clear to the institutions in good time, ensuring the financial, physical and personal conditions necessary to carry out the tasks. Efficient and effective performance of tasks requires the definition and monitoring of economic and productivity criteria and indicators. In the field of scientific research, due to the nature of the activity, it is often difficult to develop objective, measurable criteria and to have them accepted by the scientific community. This entails an increased risk of monitoring. Do I think it is important to indicate that there are several examples at international level? in the practice of the European Union or the OECD? the use of a performance indicator for certain research activities taking into account the nature of the activity concerned. Dear House, We often say that order creates value, and I firmly believe that order is the foundation of everything. In a mess, neither efficiency nor effectiveness can be expected. If we are talking about public funds spent on R &amp; D and innovation, I think efficiency and effectiveness are of paramount importance. Public funds for the R &amp; D sector fulfil their role, including such subsidies through tax incentives, if they make a significant contribution to the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, bring in a large number of new patents, expand exports, and thereby contribute to a reduction in public debt. In my exposé to the 2013 accounts of the State Court of Auditors, I have already drawn attention to the fact that our experience shows that the performance criteria for public financial planning are still inadequate and that the targets cannot always be measured and that these indicators need to be improved. Public funds must be treated as investments and transparent strategies are needed in their use. It is necessary to define the objectives pursued, the planned quantified results, and to keep track of them. [[22.10]] Measurements shall be developed, an up-to-date monitoring system shall be applied and continuous monitoring ensured. It is no coincidence that international organisations have also made significant efforts to measure the effectiveness of R &amp; D. It is enough to refer only to the innovation indicators developed by the European Commission. These points, I think, are also of fundamental importance in the case of resources for research and development. In my view, all spent public forints must be associated with performance criteria and measurable targets. In the current, rapidly changing and unpredictable international economic environment, the planned, appropriate, efficient and effective use of public funds, domestic and EU funds is a key issue. This has a fundamental impact on economic growth, the country's potential for development and is closely linked to the fulfilment of the so-called proportionate debt ratio through GDP growth. A study on the aspects and focus of the Court's audit for the control of state measures for the acquisition and exploitation of competitive knowledge is coming to an end at the State Audit Office. Based on the findings of the study, we will focus even more on the areas of R &amp; D that can directly contribute to Hungary's international competitiveness. According to the bill on the agenda, the government will carry out its tasks of public support for research and development and innovation within the framework of a single organisation, through the new National Research, Development and Innovation Office. Together with the system to be established, it is necessary to ensure that the most effective use of domestic and EU funds for R &amp; D and innovation, as well as the evaluation of the process of achieving strategic objectives, is carried out. As a result, it may subsequently be possible to implement a process based on renewable performance monitoring and to assess its availability in the operation of a new institutional system. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-03-281	Welcome, fellow Members. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Roland Mengyi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-03-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In order to achieve the detailed legal and financing conditions for the autonomy of scientific research enshrined in the Fundamental Law, in a uniform regulatory system at the statutory level? all this in order to create a knowledge-based society that ensures the competitiveness and income-generating capacity of the Hungarian economy and society, with a view to sustainable social and economic development and growth for job creation based on development and innovation? A law on scientific research, development and innovation is required. World-class research, targeted development and productive innovation are essential factors for a competitive economy. The conditions for this can be created alongside a staff policy focused on excellence, an efficient institutional system, but above all predictable, transparent, focused competition funding. One of the main problems of the current institutional system and funding is the simultaneous possibility of a lack of coordination and of a lack of single management, as well as the possibility of less efficient operation and operation. Dear Parliament, In order to harmonise and develop coordination, institutional powers and funding tasks, as well as certification rules, the proposed legislation details the areas and sub-areas concerned. It also includes rules on the governance of R &amp; D and innovation, the status, organisation and functioning of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, the rules on the purpose and management of the Research and Development and Innovation Fund, the revenue and expenditure of the Fund, the Hungarian public support for R &amp; D and innovation, the rules on R &amp; D and innovation grants and the protection of intellectual property rights, the promotion of the exploitation of intellectual property and the certification of R &amp; D activities. In the context of the government tasks of R &amp; D and innovation set out in the bill, there is a strategic approach and commitment that really places the sector as a priority. It is the government's task to create a strategy, allocate resources, set up research sites, help them integrate them into international programmes, and encourage the exploitation of results from the economy's point of view, build a helping infrastructure, coordinate resources. Dear House, When renewing the institutional system and funding of R &amp; D, innovation, the most important principle must be that the most important measure of effectiveness in basic research, i.e. exploration, is scientific excellence, i.e. an essential and recognised contribution to the knowledge of humanity. The measure of effectiveness in the development is the actual achievement of the projected technologically, economically or socially relevant objective; in innovation, the measure of effectiveness is the economic or social product, technology or profit resulting from the use of the results of research or development. Therefore, on the basis of the above, funding should be determined not on the basis of research staff, but on the basis of tasks and effectiveness. The performance of tasks and the measurement of effectiveness shall be carried out on a uniform basis. Developments and innovation should focus on results for the real needs of the economy and society and produce products. The effectiveness of research, development and innovation is measured differently, but these three areas are multiplely interlinked. It is precisely this complex relationship that calls for a unified governance, institutional system and funding, which this bill seeks to consistently enforce. The biggest problem of Hungarian R &amp; D is parallel funding, mainly due to low uncoordinated funding - if you have any Besides the National Scientific Research Fund, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the National Innovation Office, the European Union's direct research programmes and the channels of operational programmes at national level, the background programmes of several ministries and main authorities finance research. The requirements of the funding programmes are very heterogene. There are applications where, in essence, it is allocated to persons or institutions without the need for additional performance. Normative research funding does not take into account effectiveness in any way. It was also a problem that domestic research funding has not yet identified priority areas, which would have given home research sites the opportunity to break out and did not necessarily take into account national and EU science policy objectives. It is a national, national goal and interest to fully align domestic research funding with the short-, medium- and long-term strategic objectives set by the government. In view of the above, the proposal before us will, on the one hand, make the institutional system of public grants more coordinated, transparent and effective than the current practice, with the establishment of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office. On the other hand, by transforming the current Research and Technology Innovation Fund and placing it under the authority of the Office, it introduces an operational model as defined in the bill. [[22.20]] Within the framework of the National Strategy for R &amp; D and Innovation entitled "Investing to the Future," the short, medium and long-term strategic objectives of the area have been developed, including the increase of R &amp; D expenditure to 1.8 percent of GDP by the end of the decade in Hungary. The strategy identified the following main areas of problems in the field of domestic R &amp; D and innovation. The weaknesses of knowledge bases and knowledge generation: higher added value and knowledge-intensive processes in the economy are only slow to unfold when the researchers' reinforcements are halted, science and technology education is in difficulty, or where internationally competitive research centres are lacking. Knowledge production can be alienated from society if it cannot reflect its needs. Knowledge flow, knowledge and technology transfer shortcomings: if knowledge transfer institutions and organisations are weak, i.e. unable to convey knowledge generated in research and development in a way that can be used for the economy, there may be bottlenecks that in itself make it difficult to produce higher added value and, more broadly, to catch up with the economy. Obstacles to the innovative operation of the knowledge-using corporate and community sectors: one of the consequences of the dual economic structure typical of Hungary is that while foreign large companies are mostly finding modern technology and management skills, the medium-sized and small-scale sector is slowing down its innovation lag. The potential of innovation in the public sector is not reflected in government-level thinking. The first of these two problems can be solved by the operation of an innovation agency that, following a well-thought-out science and funding policy, creates and increases the added value of scientific research, development and innovation to the national economy. It is also clear that the problems outlined in the R &amp; D and innovation strategy require a clear division of labour. The strategy also states that knowledge-enhancing actors are highly competitively dependent not only on the quantitative and qualitative supply of knowledge bases, but also on the efficiency of the intermediary system, since industry is able to effectively use public goods if strategically thought-out innovation intermediary mechanisms, the necessary management capacities and the variety of forms of network cooperation are also present in the country. It is important that R &amp; D and innovation, although the state cannot take over the fundamental role of businesses, but at the same time it is important for governments at the same time to establish framework conditions that encourage companies to develop R &amp; D and innovation. This bill provides a solution for this. Dear Parliament, Important and effective steps have been taken to transform the general development policy institutional system, focus on responsible and implementing roles, avoid fragmentation and develop strong coordination functions. In order to achieve these objectives, the Government Decree on certain issues related to the abolition of the National Development Agency has allocated operational programmes to the professional wallets, with policy-oriented government objectives, thereby ensuring that available domestic and EU funds are used in an institution, creating synergies and in a coordinated manner over the next period. However, the combination of domestic and EU resources for R &amp; D and innovation did not take place during the transformation. In order to achieve an effective development policy, it is necessary to bring the specific objectives, target groups and support areas of these grants into line, so that the different interventions can act in the same direction and strengthen each other. Recognizing the former, the government provided for the preparation and establishment of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office. An essential element of the Office's operational model is that all central research, development and innovation funding sources, the coordination and funding of participation in all international scientific institutions and programmes will be transferred to this institution. The task of managing the GINOP and VEKOP resources under the thematic objective No 1 of Hungary's Partnership Agreement with the European Union will also be taken to the office in the form of delegation of tasks by the respective managing authorities. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office would also manage the personnel research applications, scholarships, young research scholarships, postdoctoral scholarships, professorships, research topics, national programmes, issues of national and international major research infrastructures and state aids related to innovation. Research to be supported under a single, coordinated support system in the institutions and areas that are able to research competitively and effectively in the area, so that public funding can be provided not on the basis of the number of researchers but on the basis of the results to date and on the basis of the expected results. This is without prejudice to the statutory management and supervisory powers of the sectoral institutional system. In this way, the government will carry out its tasks of public funding for R &amp; D and innovation through the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, thus ensuring the supervision of R &amp; D and innovation based on uniform case-law and the most effective use of available domestic and EU resources for research, development and innovation. Dear Parliament, We are all aware of the importance of R &amp; D and innovation, we know its importance, that this could mean an outbreak for Hungary, including the Hungarian economy. This confirms and confirms that the Office responsible for the efficient use of R &amp; D and innovation resources will also receive a separate budget chapter. Under the draft, the government will primarily provide public support for R &amp; D and innovation through the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. The Fund's two main sources of revenue are the central budget support and the innovation contribution paid by companies. Does the central budget support express the state's commitment to promoting this activity and the obligation to pay an innovation contribution ensures the business sector? Not including small and micro-enterprises? contribute to the financing of this activity. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, please support the adoption of the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-283	I now give the floor to László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-11-03-284	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I respect my fellow Member Mengyi very much because he has almost literally repeated what Secretary of State L. Simon said, and that is indeed an excellent achievement. [[L. Simon László: Not literally.]] I used the word "symptom" almost literally; let's listen to what I have to say. Similarly, I must say that the historical metaphor that Secretary of State L. Simon started was a very good uppercut, and I, as a history teacher, liked it very much. If I may, I would like to make a brief clarification: Széchenyi offered an amount corresponding to his one-year income to create the Hungarian Science Society. This is a very good analogy, which is before us, because, if you like it, this was the first time that R &amp; D and innovation took place with the investment of private capital, because Széchenyi did not only do this foundation, but in parallel it also happened that he drew the attention of his colleagues to others doing the same. Here, however, the analogy between the system we are talking about and the scientific system that István Széchenyi dreamed and created could be drawn as a parallel, because Széchenyi himself made only one substantive clause, that this amount should be used to care for the Hungarian language. This kind of stipulation with any of the performance indicators you've been talking about, and for me as a social science man, it's a little more difficult to interpret than real people...? So Széchenyi did not account for the creation of the Hungarian Society of Sciences in the light of any such production and efficiency considerations. [[22.30]] It is also interesting, however, that this beautiful anniversary will be presented in connection with what Secretary of State L. Simon László said, that there is a proposal before us, which is not exactly about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, as Széchenyi himself was working on. The opposite is true. If summarised briefly, a national R &amp; D and innovation office will be established as of 1 January 2015, which would primarily finance a large part of research and development from the central budget or from the innovation contribution paid by companies, practically from a central source. It is this kind of centralization that does not fit in with the spirit that Secretary L. Simon spoke of here. Our vision is a little different than that. We believe that the two basic directions of research and development are the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and its research institutes, on the one hand, and research in higher education institutions on the other. These two are the directions on which Hungarian research and Hungarian research and development should be based. There is certainly no debate in this House that the phrases about research and development, if you like it, how important they are, everyone agrees on this. There is no one in this House who does not want research and development to be successful in Hungary and who does not feel the link between the effectiveness of a country and the effectiveness of research and development. Everyone's right about that. However, we are debating that this bill, which is before us, serves these purposes. We believe that this proposal is in line with the system already in place to reduce and eliminate the autonomy of higher education and related R &amp; D areas. If we recall, first the economic autonomy of the institutions has been taken away, now there will also be a removal of research autonomy, and with the abolition of OTKA, the powers of the MTA will also be reduced. And with that, the kind of direction that happens by transforming the research institutes of the MTA with euphemism will continue, I would say, by endangering them. If we add to this the pseudo-scientific institutions that the government has created under the supervision of the Prime Minister's Office, then we already see that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and its institutional system are in constant danger and are in great danger. This bill that's in front of us is another one of those dangers. We have heard here that there has been a huge waste in this area, and this has also been revealed by investigations by the State Audit Office. I do not wish to argue with this myself, because obviously there can be such dysfunctions everywhere, but it is important to note what system these waste can come from. When it is discussed for a long time, both the national and the defence representatives, and the justification of the bill itself, that normative research does not take into account effectiveness in any way, that it does not fit the strategic goals of the short, medium and long term, this is not fully in line with the financing of domestic research and research, then we see that this is a very serious criticism of the previous four years of government. I myself do not think that this criticism is in itself not appropriate to the government, but we can see that here there are very serious critical sentences expressed by the government against itself. This is the criticism, which must be said, that, if it is justified by the State Audit Office, we can see that there has been a very serious problem over the past four years with the direction of innovation and research and development and its control. I support, by the way, that this anomaly, the malfunction of this system, is eliminated by the government, but I do not think that it is the faulty operation of a system, it is the result of malfunctioning. If, on the other hand, you have failed to operate the system of higher education research, the solution is not necessarily to punish those who may have been involved in this, but rather to review the system of how these funds were controlled and spent. Once again, as a history teacher, I may see these normative funding and results in a slightly different way, but I have to say that I have to say that the kind of vision that is about my material view of the effectiveness of a research system, an innovation system, is not something that can be introduced in all areas. Obviously, it is possible to know how effective it can be in the real world, although I think that in these sciences, too, there are some, most theoretical research that has an impact not directly, immediately, but only after many years. However, in many fields of science, there is simply no point in touching it like this. There is simply no point in talking about how effectiveness should appear in this particular way, as you deal with this issue in a material way. I do not think that there is any need to link research to some kind of achievement, nor do I say that the state has to spend money on l,, art pour l, art. However, I think that such a direct system of considerations is quite difficult to implement everywhere. I may have to say that the difference between our position and your position, on which the President of the State Audit Office says that order is the basis of everything, and that is the most important thing in an area, I must highlight what we think in contrast with a quote by Attila József. You know the lines of Attila József to come to freedom, / you give me order... [[L. Simon László:]] In good words teach him/her to play. Now, in this case, the fact that we look at the second part of the quote, to let it play well shows that this is important for Hungarian science and science in general, for the creativity of science, not to build a orderly world, but to build a creative world. Finally, I don't want to take your time at this late hour, but allow me two more approaches. This isn't the first time I've said this, let's say, hopefully, for the last time. Well, obviously, you didn't create the law on lawmaking by accident. I'm sure that had a purpose. If nothing else, it was intended to provide for how to legislate. To pass a law for social consultation, to carry out a preliminary impact assessment of a bill, I think it is a minimum and not only a minimum of the legal minimum of how to legislate, but also a real, realistic minimum. I think that this country deserves you to legislate in such a way that it complies with the law on legislation that you voted in favour of. This country deserves that. It makes sense, because, for example, what exactly is expected of this legislation, exactly what impact assessments have been carried out, and in general, the opposition could see what calculations have been made, what expectations of effectiveness are based on what you are talking about. Believe me, this is a very important matter, perhaps that is why you have included this criterion in the law on legislation. To this day, I do not know why you do not comply with your own laws in the area of legislation, and why you do not comply with this law. [[22.40]] Finally, I think that centralisation in the field of research and development can weaken the type of creativity that has so far been characteristic of some and most of the higher education institutions, if you like it, a spirit of initiative, which was about the fact that the institutions themselves were interested in finding grants that helped their research. So far, these institutions, as well as higher education institutions, have been interested in overcoming market conditions themselves and trying to carry out research that they can actually finance with other companies and which respond to substantially emerging modern market needs. We can see that in public education, when they took away this opportunity from public education institutions to collect vocational training contributions themselves and put this money in a central hat, it also discouraged the institutions' desire to raise money. Here, too, it can be said that we are afraid that we may rightly fear similar processes taking place. I ask you to consider what are really reasonable directions for centralising research and development, which, in response to the investigations of the State Audit Office, eliminate the chaos caused by government negligence in this area, and what are the trends that allow us to play this game, this creativity in Hungarian science, and restore the legitimate functioning of research and development by not killing the creativity of science otherwise. Thank you for listening.
u2014-11-03-285	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Rózsa Hoffmann, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2014-11-03-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We have an important, timely, timely and missing bill before us. 'Cause what's in it? Development and innovation, i.e. development and underlying research. And since the Member László Kiss, who had been before me, was an example of literature here, I can't help but ask Mihály Vörösmarty if the world has moved forward through the books. I didn't quote it literally. Many people ask whether and how our lives, humanity, are moving forward through science, research and technological progress. And even though we know that science, research, and results have often been used by mankind for wrong purposes throughout history, our answer, the response of the Christian Democratic People's Party, is clearly only that, yes, this is what brings the world forward. This is particularly the case in today's accelerated world, where the economic eruption, the development of the country, I risk: research, innovation, development are the most important tools for its survival. As opposed to the solo before me, the Christian Democratic People's Party believes that the problems raised by the President of the SAO, both by the lead speaker and by other speakers, are adequately answered by this bill. Because what does it take for R &amp; D and innovation to fly, to gain momentum? It requires an appropriate institutional system, a human policy that serves the most appropriate research and people. It also requires a transparent system of competition financing to clear the distribution of money and, of course, to address the results of this office. Well, the law creates such an office, a National Office for Research, Development and Innovation, so the office called NKFI, in which it solves a lot of problems that I will not repeat, the speaker said, fragmentation, parallel financing and so on. Of course, a system can be operated anyway, but since the last 24 years have shown that it has not been a real owner of development, research, innovation, and many problems have been revealed by the speakers before me, it is very likely that this office, in which its material and intellectual potential will be concentrated in the country, will solve this problem. The institutional background will therefore be established, guaranteed by the law. As regards the right human policy or personnel policy, I would like to highlight the part of the law that is about the NKFI, in cooperation with the President, the President of the Academy of Sciences and the relevant ministers, taking all the strategic decisions necessary to manage such high-profile issues. And that's an excellent suggestion? I want it from my heart and I hope that it will work? Because research is no longer focused on a single discipline, whereas fragmented research funding would have encouraged it. We can give some clear examples: in a medical research, besides biology, we have physics, microbiology, chemistry, IT and so on. If a single office, a single institution manages, coordinates and finances research, then there is a better guarantee of cooperation between these disciplines and their practitioners. But to talk about human science, because it is important, and the law also offers an appropriate opportunity to do so, let's say, as a result of an IT research, history research or archaeology can develop. As far as funding is concerned, the law lists the sources of financing for the office. I would like to point out that the innovation contribution is quite rightly not imposed on non-profit organisations and on micro and small enterprises. The state rightly guarantees that it will finance it, so it will contribute to the financing, but it will also list other resources that I would not like to quote now, because we have all read, I think, the law. Article 10 It is also a matter of monitoring, which is quite right once again, although the previous speakers here have said more about how to measure the effectiveness of research and so on, but no large system can work without checking its effectiveness in some way, i.e. not monitoring it. I would like to point out that it would be good for the Office to pay attention not only to financial control, but also to the practical use of developments and innovations, as that is the point. We have seen in recent years that financial accounts can be properly papered, researched and developed, of course, this is essential, but more attention should be paid to how developments and innovations are realized in practical life and when they are realized; whether Hungary will continue to be famous for the result of a development, its appearance in industry, to the economy, for ten, fifteen or twenty years, or even in vain, or for a quick and dynamic result. So the utilisation and monitoring of research and development must be a key task for this office. On the human side, it is rightly mentioned in the law, and I would just like to emphasise this, with greater attention given to higher education research and to the people working there. This objective will not be achieved if the situation of higher education teachers is not resolved in the short to medium term. What exactly am I thinking? A young teacher can go to a foreign conference today and present his own results and learn a lot if he succeeds in winning an OTKA contest, which will now enter this office. If you can't do that, most of the universities and colleges can't really afford it. [[22.50]] Their income conditions are so low that they cannot finance a trip to Europe themselves, and especially overseas travel. Therefore, the situation of academics and research instructors in higher education should be addressed at the same time if researchers from universities are to achieve better results and carry out research with greater affinity and success. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the research carried out in the field of humani hours. The text of the law is good, because it doesn't use an adjective anywhere. I would warn against focusing only on technical and natural sciences, and we know precisely that human sciences contribute to the development of these, and that it drives human thinking, the soul, the heart forward. Let us also pay attention to research that can be considered as hungaricum, such as music history or music arts, even if their results cannot be translated into economic benefits, and this cannot be detected, but we all know that they contribute. And if I started by looking at the analogy of the Vörösmarty quote with the question of whether the world is moving forward through research and technological progress, the response of the Christian Democratic People's Party was yes, but only if we use all research and development for good purposes. I think that this will also be one of the tasks of the Bureau to deal with research and development, let's say ethical issues when this happens. By the way, the bill is well supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you. I'm sorry, I was having a bit of a hard time talking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-287	I now give the floor to Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-03-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik welcomes the fact that we are faced with a bill on research, development and innovation, which is a priority. We particularly appreciate the fact that there is also a commitment to prepare a medium-term programme in the proposal before us. On numerous occasions in recent years, we have expressed our position, whether in parliamentary speeches or in our programme or in other forums, that it is worth focusing on the field of research and development, and that, on each occasion, we have highlighted the importance of putting small and medium-sized enterprises in the position of Hungary and improving cooperation between higher education and businesses. On this basis, we can identify with the stated aim of the proposal, which is largely based on the need to bring together research and development and innovation funding issues in line with the new challenges and to make major changes in this area. We are talking about the steps planned to coordinate proposals, and the rethinking of the structure and tasks of the agency managing them is a priority in the proposal before us. But to base my speech not only on our own opinion, I would also like to refer to the fact that last week we had a guest at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs at the meeting of the Hungarian European Business Council, the HEBC, and the members of this body each year express the importance of preparing a country strategy so that citizens, companies and investors can have a unified vision. This, I believe, could make a significant contribution to economic growth, an increase in investor confidence and the creation of value-creating jobs. It would be important to create a reliable and stable environment, against the current state of affairs, where we often face sudden decisions-driven measures. Predictability and planning are therefore key words, key issues in this respect, and I believe that only by putting them first will the creation of a national R &amp; D and innovation fund, for example, pay off. It is also welcome that the introduction of monitoring and evaluation is highlighted in the proposal and that there are several references to the granting of preferential conditions to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also positive that the preparation of the strategy appears here. I say, it is important that, not only in this area, but also in other areas of economic life, our country has such a strategy, many of which should be public with regard to the aspects of planning. The positive thing about this proposal is, therefore, that we can meet an obligation in this direction. Has the national strategy for R &amp; D and innovation "Encouraging the Future" set that goal? in line with the Europe 2020 programme? To increase R &amp; D support to 1.8 percent of GDP by 2020. At EU level, this commitment is 3 percent, although it is clear that this will not be possible in the EU. And, of course, it must be recognised, and we can certainly appreciate as a positive that, in recent years, there has been real progress in this regard, i.e. in proportion to expenditure, in our country, and we can talk about growth. I can also say as a positive point, perhaps it indicates that the government is really looking at this area as a priority, that there was a case-by-case committee in the Parliament in the previous term, the Innovation and Development ad hoc committee, of which I myself was a member. They therefore support the fact that they really feel the importance of this area from a government level. That, let's say, doesn't support it, that at this time of night, we have to argue about such a far-reaching proposal. But there is still much more to be done in the field of research and development. Here it is enough to point out that the situation in our country is that only about 13 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises are self-innovating, while the EU average is around 30 percent. We should therefore make serious progress here, and the innovation activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should definitely be increased, and further steps should be taken to stimulate innovation and research, as this could contribute substantially to the recovery of the Hungarian economy and to creating value-building jobs. Statistical data also clearly show that innovative companies are able to increase their number of employees, and this is particularly true for medium and small enterprises. It is welcome in this context, of course, that the proposal sets out the exemption from the innovation contribution for small and medium-sized enterprises. Dear Parliament, Another important area that I have to deal with is R &amp; D and education, because in order to successfully encourage Hungarian research and development, it is necessary to make changes in the field of higher education in a way that Hungarian young people can see perspective and opportunities at home. Of course, Jobbik has never questioned the importance of developing experience abroad for talented young Hungarians, and we naturally support it, but unfortunately, over the last few years, there has been a process where many people imagine their future abroad in the long term. Can this be said for the research career, because those conditions are not available? And I'm not just thinking about material appreciation here? which could lead to domestic prosperity, and so it is typical that many people use their knowledge abroad. [[23.00]] But there is a great deal of potential in this area, and it would be good if we could make better use of it. I therefore hope that in the coming months there will be a substantial debate on this issue with experts; what further steps could be taken to encourage the expansion of R &amp; D and innovation in Hungary. The National Research, Development and Innovation Office, in short, in relation to the operation of the NKFI, we would consider it very important that this should fulfil the objective that has been set for it and that it can really function properly and professionally. Therefore, we have strong reservations about this, because if we look back on similar changes in recent years, then perhaps it is no wonder that we have mistrust of the government in this area. For example, as regards the election of the President of the NRDI Office, it is proposed that he be appointed by the Prime Minister. We have found nothing in connection with the requirements, the history, the skills, the expectations, the criteria that should be met. Of course, there may have been a person long ago who you are destined for the head of this office, but this should also be made clearer. I believe that such an office should serve not a given government, but the exploitation of the country's research and development potential, which is a matter of cycles. As far as the NRDI Fund is concerned, of course, it is up to the point that funds can be obtained here through a tender, but what is very important here? has this aspect been mentioned from a fidesz, pro-government side? The transparency, therefore, is that this tender procedure will indeed take place in such a way that it will receive adequate publicity, that we can obtain sufficient information on this and that, let us say, proximity to government should not be one of the primary aspects. Therefore, there is a need to ensure proper insight into the process of assessment here, and there is a need for impartial decisions in this respect. Even because, in the multi-annual EU planning cycle ahead of us, over the 2014-2020 period, resources for R &amp; D and innovation are increasing significantly compared to the previous seven-year period, i.e. approximately two and a half times. With regard to Hungary, we are talking about HUF 700 billion, and it doesn't matter how we use this opportunity. For our part, we have welcomed in several forums that the government has made a commitment to spend 60% of the resources on economic development in the 2014-2020 cycle, but it is essential that the area of research and development is given sufficient weight. I would like to comment on the paragraphs of a few paragraphs. One of them is 19. § (c) where it is stated that, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, tender conditions other than general may be established in accordance with the relevant provisions of the European Union. I have already pointed out, of course, that we welcome this objective, but I think it should have been more precisely stated here what you are thinking, as in, let's say, Article 32. § (b) where there is a clear indication, for example, of the very welcome aspect that the pursuit of the exploitation of intellectual works in Hungary is to be encouraged. Of course, we can agree with that. The rules of support? Here, read the 19th. About the 25th of the 25th paragraph. What's up to here? it can be said that the objectives have been laid down in sufficient detail, but that the aid rules themselves should have been formulated in a much clearer way. On the whole, I can say, as Jobbik's opinion, that we certainly think the direction is right, but we would like to have a good view of how the procedure will take place in terms of proposals. The principle of transparency should apply here, and the most important aspect would be that decisions in this area will indeed be made on a professional basis, because only in this way can we be sure that we can use the funds at our disposal properly, that these proposals will go for good purposes and that they will be able to make a substantial contribution to Hungary's competitiveness and development. These are the additions to the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-289	I now give the floor to István Ikotity, on behalf of the Group of the LMP.
u2014-11-03-290	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Last week, János Lázár presented the bill on the reregulation of the scientific research, development and innovation area, which is discussed relatively soon, so within a week, we are here. The proposal radically transforms the institutional financing system in the area. The changes will take effect immediately and from the beginning of next year, which will provide a very short preparation and transitional period. It would have been better to negotiate this proposal sooner or to push the entry into force. However, we are pleased that the proposal was not tabled by individual representatives, so that at least a minimum social consultation with the various actors was carried out by the government, although we cannot expect much from it, unfortunately. The LMP agrees that new frameworks should be set up in this extremely important area instead of the fragmented regulation and the fragmented institutional environment. Hungary has long been in debt to manage R &amp; D expenditure in a uniform manner. So far, these resources have been fragmented and inaccessible in the budget, and so far the effectiveness of the use has been monitored, the implementation of appropriate corrections has not been traceable and could not be achieved according to uniform principles. This situation should have been changed a long time ago. János Lázár's proposal would, in one hand, focus on the governance of scientific innovation policy, control and the mechanism for allocating resources. At present, in an opaque system, a significant part of innovation aid disappears among many actors, and the allocation of funds is not effective, but it is the only thing we can say for sure. Neither in the time of previous socialist governments nor during the Fidesz-KDNP administration has it ever been clear how effective and effective aid is in the fields of scientific research, development and innovation. Of course, there have been well-functioning parts of the systems so far, so let's just think about the OTKA grants. The new system establishes the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund, which collects funds for the area, and the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, which controls and controls everything, which decides on the allocation of funds and the evaluation of proposals. But is full centralization, centralization really the right solution? With the otherwise well-structured and logical bill, this is the main concern of the LMP. If the Registrar appointed by the Prime Minister decides everything, then what is the guarantee that the selection of winning proposals will not take place according to the various lobbying interests? The LMP therefore proposes to strengthen professional control. Are we going to submit our amendment proposal? It's already done? in which we initiate decisions not to be made by one person, but by a body to allocate resources. According to the LMP, it is necessary to at least grant the Hungarian Academy of Sciences co-decision powers in terms of both the grant objectives and the evaluation of the proposals, but also to involve professional organisations, chambers and trade unions in making decisions. In addition, Possibly Other Politics will also propose the provision of full publicity and the creation of conditions for civilian control. The most important, therefore, is the integration of appropriate guarantees and safeguards into the draft law. If this does not happen, LMP will not be able to support the re-regulation of the area, as nothing will change if the resources in the future are not fragmented in a way, but flow from the same channel with manual control, unlike the original goals, along the different lobbying interests. [[23.10]] We all know that these lobbying interests do exist, and unfortunately they have also had a serious impact on the government's financial distribution activities so far. The hunger of the fidesz oligarchs has not subsided since then, which is why we need guarantees of professional control and full publicity in the application system. Another problem is that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the bill, a lot of question marks. Several details will be defined later in various government regulations. The law merely sets out the main frameworks and main directions, but Parliament and the public will have no influence on the establishment of detailed rules, so this is a serious risk in re-regulation of such an important area. It is also uncertain that no one knows what will happen to the good initiatives so far. Scientific society is now writing the OTKA competitions feverishly, since they were recently published six days before the introduction of the law. Now, however, János Lázár's proposal removes the system of OTKA applications so far, and the draft law does not reveal exactly what will replace it. What about the researchers, what about the applications they've just submitted? This issue should preferably be resolved before the adoption of the law, which is why we would like to draw the attention of the government. Dear House, LMP has long said that R &amp; D and innovation are a key factor in Hungarian economic development. Research and development and innovation are practically the only opportunities for Hungary to break out. The international competitiveness of the Hungarian economy and society, sustainable development, is only ensured if our Hungarian R &amp; D performance can significantly improve. If that doesn't happen, we won't be a successful country. This means, on the one hand, the expansion of resources and, on the other, the equalisation of existing inequalities. Currently, the funding of the area is very low in terms of GDP. R &amp; D expenditure accounts for only 1.2 percent of GDP per year, only a small part of which is budget support, which is a major lag compared to successful countries in the North or Western Union. Unfortunately, this minimum rate will not change next year, and the 2015 budget will not make any meaningful progress compared to the previous ones. If, in fact, this area is the basis for the Hungarian economy's eruption, we should spend at least 2-3 forints on innovation, not 1 forint for every 100 forints produced. R &amp; D expenditure per capita is a quarter of the EU average, but we do not even know the actual utilisation and effectiveness of these few expenditures. Here we did not mention the Far East and catching up countries, where there are more than one, so it is several times even Western European, or at least significantly higher than Western Europeans. But we do know that the distribution of resources is extremely uneven. Currently, almost two thirds of innovation resources are being used in the capital, while innovation is also an opportunity to break out in the countryside. Hungary cannot be renewed only from the capital. There is also a need to change the unequal distribution that R &amp; D spending is more typical of larger companies, and domestic SMEs are very lagging behind in this area. Hungary will not be renewed by multinational corporations alone. The multinationals typically don't come to this country to innovate, but to have cheap workers assembled. In vain, the government talks about innovation policy at European level if, by the way, the other measures provide a cheap and vulnerable workforce for multinationals. It might be possible to think, therefore, about this idea that the strategic contracts should record innovation expenditure on the part of companies. But we should not just expect large companies to invest in innovation. Without greater involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungary will not succeed in its renewal and outbreak, improving its international competitiveness. Innovation activities of SMEs should therefore be promoted and encouraged in particular. In recent years, many countries have made progress in supporting SMEs' research and development activities. In recent decades, Belgium, Ireland and Norway have set up new tax incentive schemes, thus increasing the number of OECD countries using this method for R &amp; D to 18. We should also build such a system in Hungary, of course, this partly goes beyond the framework of the bill before us, but without the appropriate economic incentive tax and other elements, it is not possible to achieve serious results. Dear House, Well-managed R &amp; D is of paramount importance for the knowledge society. Only as a result can we achieve a better position in the international globalisation competition. We can only reposition ourselves as a result of a well-conceived innovation policy and as a result, which is a fundamental condition for higher income and better living standards. It should be stressed that this whole topic we are discussing is inseparable from the system of public education and higher education. Who will become innovative professionals? We believe that young Hungarians have the talent and initiative to make this country successful, but at the same time we are often disappointed by the transformation of the public education system, which wants to unify and unify us. This excessive centralisation or the introduction of a past curriculum, the advance of frontal education, will strangle precisely initiative and innovative tendencies. We could also talk about reducing the age of compulsory education, reducing vocational training time from 4 to 3 years, and the plan to halv high school seats, closing the gates of higher education. If we want a genuine innovation policy at European level, we also need to create a knowledge base for this, which requires appropriate skills, skills and competences, an education system that can provide them at all levels of the school system. This is the starting point for a knowledge-based society, which will result in successful R &amp; D and innovation. Dear House, The above examples also show that there is indeed a need for more serious and decisive State intervention. Not only must R &amp; D and innovation policy set a new direction, but this whole activity must also create a wider set of conditions. This includes economic policy incentives, innovation-friendly tax systems and the establishment of an education system for a knowledge-based society. Staying with the concrete legislative proposal, once again, we see the fragmentation of the legislative environment and the unification of the institutional system as a good direction, but there are also serious risks and risks in the present form of the new regulatory proposal. If the appropriate guarantees and professional guarantees are not built in, then it is feared that the various lobbying interests will determine the distribution of the money, putting the Hungarian economy and society at risk of increasing their competitiveness and grasping the opportunities to break out. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek and László Kiss applaud.]]
u2014-11-03-291	This is the end of the keynote speeches, and for the first time, the independent Member can speak within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs.
u2014-11-03-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Today, this is the second time in Parliament that I have been talking about a topic related to my limited field of expertise, and I started this day this morning to be convinced by the representatives of the government, because I am also fundamentally interested in making progress both in higher education and in research. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Mr Palkovics was there today, when we got to the point where he did not think that dual vocational training could be extended to full domestic higher education, he thought it could be achieved in a relatively narrow segment, and from then on I was calmed down myself, and I would stand up for his ideas with a full chest width; he absolutely convinced me, and then we talked about it for a long time. I must tell you frankly, on this bill, I have not been absolutely convinced by the pro-government speakers or by Secretary of State L. Simon László on behalf of the government. As a university professor, a researcher, I see quite serious problems with this bill. [[23.20]] Perhaps everyone knows, even those who are not engaged in university education and research, that in recent years there has been a domestic form of funding for university research that can be considered stable, predictable and professionally competent. This is OTKA, the annual budget of which has been around HUF 6-7 billion annually in recent years. This has allowed the admission of around 300-400-500 new applications each year, which are multi-annual applications, so there have been around 1000-1200 running applications or projects in the framework of OTKA in recent years. The reason I mentioned this was that this was a professionally predictable basis, which, in terms of its assessment, was considered a professional basis, because many years, can now be said to have been decades? OTKA was created in 1986 and has it been considered independent since 91? a system of evaluation and criticism has been developed that has been accepted by everyone within the profession. Of course, we know very well that there was relatively little money in the system, perhaps you know the statistics, Mr Secretary of State, that about half of the applications were declared excellent, but a large part of them had to say that there was no money for it, and then all sorts of conteos were created, that only researchers with great connections could get a proposal and the rest. But in itself, if we have examined this system, it can be said that this was absolutely based on a professional assessment, and rather it was only such urban legends that these criticisms were subsequently considered. And anyway, there were mostly such criticisms in the field of social sciences, where scientific performance is relatively difficult to measure. It's not as simple as the indicators in science, is it? In addition, OTKA is also important because it was possible to submit applications corresponding to different stages of the research career, starting researchers, young researchers with international connections, senior researchers could submit applications, and senior researchers were able to offer PhD students and employ them. Here, Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann mentioned how difficult it is to reach a conference for teaching assistants. They didn't get a conference, did they, at least not from OTKA competition, but from senior researchers' OTKA contest, or did they get as many instructions and guidelines as I did from my head of department to invest a few million of my own money, and then I would be a good international researcher? But that was just a parentheses note. So, in this sense, OTKA was also important that it was well adapted or adapted to the different stages of the research career, or that it covered the different fields of science very well, and, as I said, it could be considered essentially independent. The OTKA Commission itself is not only appointed by the Prime Minister under the OTKA Act, but the Minister, together with the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, is proposing this. The Vice-Presidents of the OTKA Committee are proposed to include the Rector's Conference, the Rector's Chair of Art Universities, among others, the MTA, and then the OTKA Commission, in which not only the members of the government are delegates, and even the members of the direct government are in a minority, and then the heads of the colleges of specialities are selected on the proposal of the OTKA Committee members, and the judges are built on it. So it is absolutely possible to say that it operates independently, autonomously. And this ensured that the criticism and procedure of OTKA was fundamentally accepted within the profession. This is not very valuable in the last 10-15 years.In fact, most of the colleagues consider this to be completely professional and good, and I myself have also participated as an applicant, as an evaluation, and I have come to know it as a fully functioning system. Now this bill, which actually eliminates this kind of autonomy, is odd. Several speakers have already mentioned that this particular resulting NRDI Office is anything but autonomous. This is a government office, appointed by the Prime Minister without speaking to anyone else by the way, and then in a very strange way, I tell you frankly, I do not understand this; the bill states that the president of the NKFI appoints the heads and members of the college, taking into account the proposals of the key research and development workshops in the field concerned. If someone tells me how to define what we consider to be a research and development workshop and how many questions to ask, I would appreciate it, because it is simply a rubber rule. On the other hand, as I mentioned, the head of the NRDI Office is appointed by the Prime Minister. The previous OTKA law also took into account the proposals of professional organisations when appointing the various leaders of the organisation. I would ask the representatives of the government and the representatives of the governing parties to support our proposal in the committee during the detailed debate, namely, at least in the appointment of the head of the office, the support of professional organisations, bodies, the support or proposal of the bodies required by the OTKA Commission, for example, the OTKA Act. And I have one more specific question. In the next year's budget bill presented to the House in 2015, OTKA is supposed to have a budget of over seven billion, plus a few hundred million forints for the OTKA Office. I guess if the law is passed by Parliament, it'll make no sense. Where will it be transferred to, the NRDI Fund or I don't know where, in case we can get a concrete answer to that. And I would also like to ask you to consider, perhaps, the kind of spirit that OTKA has developed over the last decades, how it could possibly be put into this new office. I think, first of all, that it could be refined in the selection, nomination and then in the decision-making mechanism of colleges and judges. By the way, I think that if that professionalism, that attitude could be projected or implemented for every R &amp; D grant that worked for OTKA, which, let's say, is only a few billionaires, while we are talking about a total amount of around 70 billion now, if I remember correctly in the case of the NKFI Fund, then the system would probably work well, and perhaps this would be the positive direction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-03-293	Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. That is to say, it is the word of Congressman László Pósán.
u2014-11-03-294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Quite a lot has been said here in the last more than an hour, and let me just say that if we are discussing or talking about a professional issue, which is almost exactly what the current law is, then it is good to read the text of the law and understand it. Here were some points about the guarantees or not in decision-making. [[23.30]] Is it very clear in the law that specialized colleges should be set up, expert groups evaluate and prioritise, so in this respect, the kind of decision-making mechanisms that exist today? Mr Szabolcs Szabó just told us that this works well at OTKA, in essence, is this the construction right now? They'd live on in this system. The question or objection raised by Congressman Ikotity is what will happen to the proposals that have just been submitted in the case of OTKA. The transitional provisions need to be read, and it says that the OTA applications submitted will be evaluated in the same order as they have been before, and that OTKA will not cease to exist, but will become part of a much larger fund, which I hope will mean that much greater resources can be managed in all research areas where OTKA has so far been the framework. Congressman László Kiss said he was a history teacher. If he is a history teacher, the facts and events in the past should be better known and respected. He said there's a centralization going on here. I would like to note that the Innovation Fund and its associated office? Is this about the reorganization that we're talking about? In 2004 the Hungarian Parliament, Bálint Magyar, was adopted by the Minister who submitted it, and the entire construction of this Innovation Fund, which is about the payment of private capital and the central budget adds to that, was invented by the House. So if you have centralization problems, then address this objection to your own party first. When he said that he thought there had been problems with science funding and research over the past four years, he probably didn't pay attention when President Domokos presented the timeframes for the SAO's investigations, which began from exactly when and how long it lasted. From 2008 to 2010 and from 2008 to 2012, a number of such studies were carried out, so they have not examined the last four years, but, if you will, the previous cycle or the two-cycle timeframe. It's only fair that we talk about it. To end the interests of higher education institutions: I do not know where this idea came from, because the interest of higher education institutions in what external resources they can involve is, and will not disappear, even because existing legislative frameworks encourage it in this respect. Let us consider that, for example, the winning of excellence titles, which also entails additional resources, has a number of criteria that have both external relations, industrial and economic aspects, so it is good to know these. We have to agree with Mr Bana, because we have been together in the Committee on Research and Innovation that, indeed, there has often been a need, rightly, for the whole management of science, research and innovation to be dispersed, which many have already mentioned. I do not wish to repeat this, just to highlight the justification for this, let me give you some specific examples, which are good in the minds. Was there such a running program at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences for a long, long time? Is this still under the presidency of Ferenc Glatz, as I recall? The fact that strategic research was made at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, a series of excellent books was created on this, but what was then used later on, the practical side of any field of science, if we look at it, then we have to say that the utilisation was incredibly small in this regard, because it was simply somewhere that the threads were not collected. On one side, there was a very serious scientific achievement, but the continuation of it was essentially political, if you will. So that's what this is about. Or am I going to give you another example: when we talk about the issue of the PPP scheme, is it not, in itself, just about the financial burden of this? Isn't it a little, by the way? But is it just about being in a lot of places? In higher education, is that what this is all about when we talk about research? the type of capacity building that has not, by chance, been preceded by a single science policy strategy, where, what, why we are developing. It was, it was, it was, it was everything, and somewhere else, it just doesn't connect. So I don't think that's right. Secretary of State L. Simon said that since the change of regime, there has essentially not been a system of science governance that has defined the priorities for research, development and innovation. That is basically true, I would like to make a small point and clarification. During the first Orbán government, there was such a strategy, named six large areas on which resources should be concentrated. The problem was that in 2002 the Medgyessy government threw everything into the garbage basket in the world, including this one, even though there was a departure from the field of life sciences in many directions. And for many years after that, it was the fact that, with a noble simplicity, the Science Policy Council was not convened by the socialist prime ministers, even though it would have been the job of the prime ministers. This was mentioned several times in Parliament at the time, not only from the opposition side, but also from the minutes. So when we look for a concrete example of whether or not he had control, any strategy for research, development, innovation, it is good to see it this way: he wasn't, in either case he wasn't. It's kind of sad that this could have happened in this respect. Do I think this current bill is trying to do that? In my hope, by the way, and based on the wording of the law, can we say it with good confidence? So that it can concentrate resources, will it be able to give much more impetus to research, innovation, and will it really have a clear owner? I'm sorry for the expression, but will you have a master after all? the area which, by the way, is covered by Article 21 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; There must be one of the most important economic driving sectors everywhere in the century. Of course, is there another aspect of scientific research? Is that what the law does? what we call basic research or exploration research. This is the area where, if you like, the biggest risk in the sense that you don't know what happens when you start something. This kind of exploration research has been funded by OTKA so far, if I may say so. I now hope and hope that more resources can be used for this, precisely because we have to take the kind of risk that we do not anticipate that certain research will have a useful product, result, product that can be translated in an economic sense. I'm not sure they'll all have it, but that's a risk we have to take. But in judging that, do I think it's worth keeping that principle? And I don't think there's gonna be a problem here? that in the field of basic research, critical professional colleges, invited critics, experts should refer to the Academy of Sciences, membership of the Academy of Sciences, academics, who can judge that there is a certain research idea, even if there is a risk, but scientifically, how well the starting points are. I don't think it's gonna be a problem if someone's worried about OTKA's system right now. This is where I see room for manoeuvre. By coordinating the president of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office? as the bill said? Ministers and the President of the Academy would be involved in the development and implementation of a strategy for government research, development and innovation, and I do not quote it literally. But would it be worth considering that possibility? as a suggestion, will I say it partly towards the wallet? that there are some major universities in Hungary where there have been extensive industrial relations systems in the field of research and development, and that they work relatively well. I'm from the University of Debrecen, and I know that there is an extensive cluster system there, linked to the University of Debrecen, which certainly includes dozens of companies, but it's obviously in many places from the University of Technology. Consequently, it would be worth considering how these major universities should be involved at rector level or at Vice-Rector level or in any other form in this type of strategy or even implementation. It may also be quite simply that the president invites those rectors. So this is a matter of perspective and technical question, but I think it would be worth thinking about, because I think there is a reason in this for where and how these things are going to take place in the future. [[23.40]] I think the law is basically the right direction. I think that the main objectives that many people have said before me can serve, and I think that the extent to which Hungary can use the possible resources available in the next EU cycle is crucial. All the more so, because in the field of scientific research, there are no quotas of the type that used to be. So you have to apply directly. In order to apply directly, there is a need for sufficient preparedness and, in some cases, a sufficient share of self is required, and this requires a certain concentration. So I can tell everyone that I think this law can be passed with a good heart. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-03-295	To this next comment, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-11-03-296	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, let me say that at the beginning of the trial of the law, many who followed this trial at such a late hour may have felt that L. Simon László might be tired of what he said. It's not like that. It's just that we shouldn't negotiate at a time like this. You may be tired, Mr. Secretary. We should not negotiate such an important law at such a time [[L. Simon László: Why do you always tease me?]] I believe that this draft law would be of great interest to many people. It could be, say, planning two-day sessions, and then tomorrow, Tuesday, it could have been on TV... [[István Szávay: Fidesz has a faction meeting!]] ? Yeah, yeah? I think it might have been possible to discuss this very important issue on television, but I am glad that it has finally come before this House. The other thing I would like to note at the beginning of my speech is for László Pósán. I would like to say that I have read the law, perhaps I have understood it, and I would ask you to pay attention to my speech, especially as regards the guarantee elements, by reading this law and trying to interpret it. Recognizing the problem contained in the general justification of the proposal that the inefficient and uncoordinated use of resources in recent years and decades has led to considerable waste, based on real government and institutional parallels. The lack of harmonisation of the institutional system and regulatory environment of research, development and innovation activities, as well as the change of institutional bad practices, are, in our opinion, a timely and important issue. Unfortunately, however, the bill does not, in my view, have the guarantee elements that would effectively ensure the elimination of previous anomalies or the prevention of the recurrence of identical problems. The most prominent aim of the proposal is to establish, by law, the autonomy of scientific research activities, which is also enshrined in the Fundamental Law. Article X (2) of the Fundamental Law provides that only scientists are entitled to evaluate scientific research. On the contrary, no minimum margin for the R &amp; D Office has been drawn up in the proposal as regards the expertise, expertise and application of its activities. The agency to be set up is the primary executive and supervisor of government tasks related to research, development and innovation activities, the main responsible for the distribution of domestic and foreign resources for this activity, thus carrying out an evaluation of and a decisive influence on scientific research. However, it has not been determined that at least the President of the Office, to whom the proposal gives a very wide range of powers, should be a teacher of science, not to mention the Vice-Presidents. The current text of the proposal therefore does not preclude a repeat of the sad case of development policy and the associated allocation of funds being managed and supervised for years by a person who does not have a scientific degree or even a higher education degree. This deficiency of the proposal must be addressed in any event, otherwise the lack of professional aspects and political influence in this area will continue to be characteristic, which will lead to further incomprehensible, inexplicable and often unsuitable decisions. However, I would like to say that, given that you may be interested in Mr State Secretary, we would like to take a constructive approach to this law, which is why we have tabled amendments. For this part, the first amendment that has been tabled and I recommend that you note that the bill 8. The following new paragraph (3) would be added to Section 3 of this Article, specifying which person would be in charge of the NRDI Office. The Chairperson of the NRDI Office may be appointed by a person who has at least five years of professional experience in a) higher education degree, b) academic degree, c) research facility or research institution, d) as head of research institution or deputy head of research institution. I think these would be acceptable conditions, so this should be defined. I don't know if there is anyone in this room who has these conditions, and I don't even know who you want to be head of this institution, of this office, but I would like to welcome Mr Pálinkás, who is listening to this entire debate at the moment. Let's keep moving. The autonomy of scientific research activities is also concerned that the R &amp; D strategy, which is the basis for encouraging this activity, is determined by the current government, which, in addition, can be modified by a simple government decision, even during the year. If the government has such a strong right to manage and support scientific and research activities, the autonomy of the activity will only remain a sound and desirable promise that has never been fulfilled. In fact, it would have been necessary to define appropriate guarantee elements in the law in relation to the establishment of the R &amp; D strategy, the person involved in the creation and the amendment of the strategy. The need to allocate funding for R &amp; D and innovation in a transparent, predictable and accessible way to the widest possible range of stakeholders can be appreciated. However, this requirement is not sufficiently taken into account in the proposal. Although it defines a technical body for the preparation of the grant decision, it refers the decision to the President without linking the decision-making with the preparation of the decision. It may therefore arise that the President takes a different position from the technical body in relation to the support of one or more projects and, at his own discretion, takes a different decision from the proposal. In the past, unfortunately, we have read too many press reports that the decision-maker has changed the professional order established by the pre-decisions, or has taken a supportive decision despite the rejection proposal, or vice versa. For these cases, the previous regulation provided for a detailed, detailed and written justification for the decision making, which could be learned by the data subjects. This proposal does not include this minimum justification requirement, nor is there any evidence of the attempt to override subjective impressions and personal interests in decision-making. If the aim is indeed to eliminate previous bad practices, then it is absolutely necessary in the law itself to define the basic requirements that the lower regulators to be created will have to meet in the future. Such foundations include, for example, the definition of the content and time limits of the decision-making process, the description and recording of the decision-making and preparation of the decision-making system and the guarantee of the right of the applicant concerned to appeal or complain in the event of infringements committed against him. We have also tabled amendments to this section. I also recommend this to the Secretary of State. In particular, the grant decision shall be taken by the President of the NRDI Office, which shall take the decision no later than 60 days after the submission of the application. With the successful tenderer, the NRDI Office shall conclude a grant contract or issue a supporting document, against the tender decision, the non-winner may refer the applicant to the court within 15 days of the decision being taken. In the course of the court proceedings, Article III of the 1952 Civil Procedure Act. Chapter 20 of Law No 20 shall apply mutatis mutandis. I feel that the rules on tendering are rags and undeveloped, without a number of warranty rules, this amending proposal would correct this. [[23.50]] In addition, we would like and have tabled an amendment to this proposal that the President of the NRDI Office may derogate from the Board's proposal, but that he must give a detailed explanation of his decision other than the Board's proposal, which the client can understand under the same conditions as the evaluation. We have also tabled an amendment to this, and I think it is also a proposal that can be acceptable to you. I would also ask you to consider supporting these amendments. Furthermore, the proposal for a provision on the use of resources that the Government has the right to grant public funding without tendering by an individual decision is of concern to finance the project it would like to finance. In addition, this option is set out in Article 2 of the proposal. Paragraph 1 (b) also states as a principle. In addition, in relation to the eligibility of the government, the proposal is contradictory, since Article 9 states that: According to Section 5 of the Act, only legislation may provide for a task for the Office. According to the bill, the Office is responsible for, inter alia, the implementation of the RDI strategy and the management of the fund providing resources. However, the government is not entitled to finance a project from the Fund without a specific decision. Therefore, the Office will also have to carry out a task that will be required by a decision of the Government, but the Government decision is not a law. Without resolving this contradiction, the practical implementation of the proposal may put the person empowered to take a decision, the President of the Office at all times, in an unworthy position. I would refer here to the objective of the proposal to guarantee the autonomy of research activities. This objective cannot be achieved by broadening the government's individual decision-making powers to this extent. We have also tabled an amendment on behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, which would mean that the NKFI Fund will be charged with the granting of Hungarian public funding law and government decree? Have we taken the government decision out of this paragraph? on the basis of an international contract, individual support and application. That should be the case, because there is a contradiction here, so the government decision is not appropriate if you wish to put it into the law in this way. The proposal sets out detailed rules of procedure on how to pay the innovative contribution to the Fund and how it is due. On the other hand, it contains only a short provision on when and how the innovation contribution collected by the NAV will be transferred to the office's treasury account, free of general warranty elements. Also referring to the budgetary tricks of previous years, I believe that it is necessary to lay down at legal level that the resources necessary for the operation of the Fund are actually made available to the Office by the NAV at the appropriate time. Otherwise, the funding of ongoing projects may be limited, as we have seen several times under previous governments. This risk is particularly relevant for domestic public support. The text of the draft law discusses the conditions for the exploitation of intellectual property rights at the budgetary research site. The tasks, operation and management of budgetary research centres are widely managed by legislation, and therefore the detail of the legislation contained in the bill is unjustified. This detail is particularly dissonant in the fact that there is almost no provision in the draft for the exploitation of the results of supported research and development activities carried out by non-budgetary research centres. Taking into account the spirit of the bill, it is necessary to set minimum requirements and possibly binding commitments for the exploitation of the results of the supported projects carried out by non-public actors, in particular as a basis in the preamble to the draft, that the regulated and supported innovation activity serves the competitiveness and sustainable development of the Hungarian economy and society. Classification of R &amp; D activities is a new element in the draft law that is indeed an important and necessary area of central regulation. The text of the proposal sets out in detail the scope of the certification procedure, its steps and their deadlines. It is therefore incomprehensible why the possibility of a normal remedy was excluded during the rating procedure. The wording of the explanatory statement does not cover this question. Is it also possible to object to the fact that, in the course of the certification procedure, the determining authority only informs the customer of those basic data upon request? filing number, name of administrator, contact details of the office, client rights and so on? Without which data, the customer cannot exercise its fundamental rights. The part of the bill that obliges the National Intellectual Property Office to draw up expert opinions on the rating when requested by the tax authority is seriously concerned. In drawing up the opinion, only the information contained in the request by the tax authority is available to him and he is not obliged to carry out any other evidence or data collection in order to obtain his opinion. This practice may lead to reverse situations in which the National Intellectual Property Office may give advice contrary to its decision in the course of a rating procedure conducted at the client's request and at the expense of the client, by which it will have at its disposal different data from data rating procedures. The most objectionable in this is that the client can only be informed of the expert's process afterwards and that the client is entitled to an appeal in relation to the professional opinion. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I will continue to do so, because there is still one, and I have added a few amendments to this, which I will recommend to the Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-297	I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-11-03-298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, After a very specific and very professional speech, I would like to ask you to allow me a less specific one, because I would like to say a few thoughts about the legislation less than I did earlier in the debate. I'm doing this because, in the course of today, I would have had an address on the agenda between them when I wanted to talk about the fact that we don't need science to eradicate science? ideas for the celebration of Hungarian science. In this speech, it would have been good to know perhaps the starting point from which we started. The latest ranking of competitiveness of the World Economic Forum has recently emerged, in which Hungary has lost three seats, and we have reached 63rd place, mainly due to poor performance in the field of science and innovation. I'd like to say the five most interesting points. As a request for conversion, our 48th place in intellectual property protection in 2009 was reduced to 58 by 2013. The quality of scientific research sites has only slightly deteriorated, but there is also a visible deterioration. The number of researchers and engineers available is significant, and instead of the previous 57, we are now in the 60th place. The fourth is that in the area of international patent entries per million inhabitants, we have also slipped back from 27th place, but only slightly. The most dramatic deterioration in position is innovation performance, and in four years we have fallen from 45th to 97th place. Unlike Mr László Kiss, I did not find the introduction of the Secretary of State with Széchenyi's thoughts entirely appropriate, because, as I was going to say after the agenda, science is not necessary to eradicate science. I wanted to highlight exactly the processes that are clearly seen in the country. At the same time, for me? and the LMP in its previous speeches? I have always promised constructive opposition, so I do not want to reject the possibility of adopting this legislation on the ground. This could be considered eligible if the amendments tabled by my fellow Member Ikotity were accepted. If I may, I would like to recall the idea that President Sólyom or President of the Republic said at the time of the adoption of the Fundamental Law, who compared the Fundamental Law to the new National Theatre, and said that it is true that it was built alongside the protest of the architect profession, although it was not entirely as aesthetically as it should have been, but if there is a good director and there is a good play, it can be played very well. In this legislation, too, there is an opportunity to make real progress in funding science. On the other hand, in terms of perspective, I wanted to respond to previous speeches because I did not have a very good or proper approach to these expressions when it came to closing up the concepts of science, research, development and innovation, in addition to the constant expression of competitiveness. [[0.00]] This is because in many cases the area of science is clear in my opinion that it also affects areas, especially in human areas, which do not necessarily serve competitiveness, but are essential tasks for science in order to maintain our national identity or to acquire our knowledge of natural sciences. And for this reason, the constant emphasis on competitiveness is a bit of a concern to me, while in other cases it is desirable. In the course of the Paks debates, LMP has constantly stated that the country is in a position not to see an alternative to the expansion of Paks by the Hungarian government due to insufficient funding of research and development resources. If you are to finance sufficiently innovative research which can only be innovative in part, but which requires research and preparation, as Mr Pósán has already said in this area, it is equally important to have funding to create a continuous background for these. At the same time, I would like to say that I do not wish to talk about what is in the legislation, and perhaps it is not good and it is proposed to amend it, because my fellow Member has done so, but what it might be a bit good for me, in my view, to give us some assurance in the answers or in the reply of the Secretary of State. One of these is the question of financing research workshops and old research institutes in Hungary, which I believe is no longer sustainable and is no longer possible on the basis of proposals and programmes. I looked at the maintenance costs of research workshops, partly research institutes belonging to ministries, in the draft budget law, and I also have concerns about the fact that a number of research institutes are expected to be merged, dismantled, and budgeted. And I am not sure whether the future resources available here will provide resources for the maintenance and research activities of these institutions, because that might be a guarantee. Similarly, in many cases, the funding of young PhD students for the acquisition of a scientific degree has shown a number of concerns that while, for example, in human areas, they may be able to keep students with better abilities for PhD studies, in areas of the competition sphere such as programmer mathematicians or IT algorithms, this is unfortunately no longer possible, because the competition sector is stealing the best ones and does not provide sufficient opportunities to keep them in science. It is also a question of whether this new system will be able to compensate and provide competitiveness to the best in science. Overall, on a number of occasions it has been said from the government side that one of the most important parts of justification is the fact that at the moment transparent multi-lateral funding has been made available in the field of research. I cannot assess the possibility that this position of the SAO has caused damage to the Hungarian budget, to what extent. Certainly, if I had the SAO's due diligence, I would find errors in the SAO's budget. So if someone's going this way, I don't know how productive that is. However, it is clear that a diversified funding system may be able to significantly promote policy neutrality and scientific focus on a research area in many areas. I have been thinking very, very much about what Mr Szilágyi said, namely whether the government can finance research projects directly, whether this is an idea from the devil or not. In total, the test of pudding is again to eat, because it can serve good purposes; there may be areas of a government on which it is possible or necessary in a targeted way. If LMP were to govern, though, research on renewable energy sources could be one of these, but there are certainly different areas of different governments based on ideology. But what opportunities will this create? Because there is not only the possibility, but also the risk that perhaps some of the research resources will not necessarily be achieved by social use, but simply by political decision-making. But I do not want to make a bad political resolution on this. Thus, the possibility of achieving a more forward-looking and better financing system is involved. In the review of the legislative proposal, there is a concern that the transparency of what purpose, what consideration, what motivations will fund R &amp; D in the next period will be substantially impaired. I am concerned about how the funding of scientific research in the non-specific competitiveness sector will remain and in what proportion it will remain. I would also like to ask you very much and to remind you, Mr Secretary of State, that, in addition to the question of funding science, there are many other areas where aid to science would be needed at the same time. And forgive me for going back to my own field of expertise, but I have to say that in the last four years, the granting of scientific research permits has slowed down terribly and has been difficult, for example, in the field of natural sciences, so in the case of living waters, the granting of scientific research permits has slowed down. And the consistency of all of this, the fact that a government effort to support these research activities will be pursued in addition to funding, would certainly be desirable in order to achieve government objectives and the objectives set out in the legislation. We therefore submit the amendments, asking the honourable Secretary of State and the Government to consider them in substance, and, if they are to be considered positively, they may be eligible, with many concerns, but with the belief that the amendment may also serve to improve the system. Thank you very much. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2014-11-03-299	I now give the floor to Member István Ikotity for a two-minute comment.
u2014-11-03-300	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to respond to the suggestion made by Congressman Pósan. Of course, we've read it, and there are, as he said, specialized colleges, it's not that there are none. In relation to these specialised colleges, the law before us is very general. It is outlined as if the system would remain itself, but the president of the National Research and Development Innovation Fund, which made the final decision, is clearly the person appointed by the political authority. So he's gonna make these decisions, not, like, earlier in OTKA, these dorms. We have also looked at this proposal at the OTKA Act 97, of course, before the appointment of the President of the OTKA, the Vice-Presidents and the members of these committees had a significantly wider legitimacy, as here the Rector's Conference, the MTA, and the rector's seat of the art university had a say in the appointment of these persons. The wording is much more general than before, also where it concerns the selection of lower decision-makers, such as members of specialised colleges and their presidents. I would like to quote one part: the President will make the decision taking into account the proposals of his key research and development workshops in this field. Now, the question is, who decides which is the defining research and development workshop in a given field of science? It's not defined anywhere. That is why we say that there are a lot of generalities in this law, which, of course, will be regulated by government regulations, only that is expected to be very, very far from transparency. Thank you for the floor. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2014-11-03-301	On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán.
u2014-11-03-302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to remember a few things. Mr Szilágyi mentioned that the government's funding without tendering is problematic. Sallai Benedek said it could be good. I would also like to give a concrete example to make it clear that this is necessary. Laser investment in Szeged is, for example, an investment that fits into such a genre. Or I would also like to note that the reason why the large investment in particle accelerator material research in Debrecen was not carried out against Swedish and Spanish competitors is because the Gyurcsány government has simply proved to be quite narrow in this regard and we have not been competitive. But none of them could have worked under a tendering scheme. I would like to note the question of the colleges of specialities and the criticism of this, that, in fact, if this logic is now questionable, then we should also have called into question the whole agenda, where there were recommendations within the Academy, and de jure was the President's decision. And the results, by the way, show that these were good decisions and have proved successful. [[0.10]] So I do not know why it is necessary to take a bad attitude from this point of view, since a previous example has already been proven in a similar area. I would also like to note that the setback Mr. Sallai spoke of...? many indicators can be used to measure many things. If we look at the reports of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the state of Hungarian science? are these always born at regular intervals? , there are quite good trends, and it is clear that the 2008 crisis has caused problems everywhere in many respects, and the last four years have largely been about the need for researchers to be researched first and the need to bring researchers home and keep them at home, and the resources have basically gone in this direction. So I think it's worth considering. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-303	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi as a standard word applicant.
u2014-11-03-304	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Pósan, I did not say that it is a concern that the government may want to support certain projects. I said that the concern is that if the law defines the NRDI Office as having to operate on the basis of legislation, then the concern is that the government decides by government decision certain subsidies from this fund, because the government decision is not a law. That's what I said, and that's why we're making a government decree, say, on the amendment. So we did not object to the fact that the government might have objectives to support certain projects, but that it would try to support it legally. I would like to apologize to the other Secretary of State, if I may have misunderstood: it was not for his person, what I just said, but for the fact that I consider this law to be so important at last, and I consider this matter so important that I consider it unfair that, say, we should discuss this law at quarter to one. I suggested that it might have been more appropriate to do so during the day. I believe that in this country, this law could be of broad interest, in a country which has many, many scientific achievements, has given many, many inventors, many, many world-famous scientists. I believe that this bill would still be of great interest to us, how it will continue, and how we will continue to decide on scientific research, development and innovation in this country, and how we will possibly finance it if necessary. I was therefore concerned, in my speech, that the draft law obliges the National Intellectual Property Office to draw up an expert opinion on the qualification, on the basis of a request from the tax authority, and that only the data contained in the request of the tax authority are available to it in the course of the opinion. So we have also tabled an amendment to this because, in our opinion, it is appropriate that the previous documents already available be used in this procedure as well. This is necessary in order to ensure that the drafting of the opinion cannot lead to a counterproductive outcome, as was the content of the decision taken in the original procedure. That is why the bill is 42. Paragraph 4 of Article 4 would be amended by establishing the expert opinion on the basis of the questions asked and the documents submitted by the SZNH in the proceedings pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 3 and using the data at its disposal and the documents generated in the previous proceedings, by not providing specific evidence for the determination of the facts, and by not carrying out an on-the-spot visit, but, if necessary, by requesting further information from the requesting court or authority. If you are able to appreciate this amendment, I would also like to recommend this to your attention. To sum up, the provisions of the bill and its justification, it can be concluded that the regulatory need, as well as the new body and institutions to be created, are intended to address a real and burning problem. However, it can also be concluded that the current draft text lacks all the guarantees that would eliminate and prevent the unsustainable conditions that have already emerged and are still in place in the area of regulation. I trust that the lack of guarantee elements can be attributed not to the actual legislative intention underlying the background, but only to the sloppy and inaccurate preparatory work of the codification practitioners. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the recognition of past errors and the elimination of bad practice, in addition to improving legislation for the future, also requires that responsibility for errors detected and bad practice be established and that accountability should be done with the widest possible publicity; so, if there were any, this should be done. And would I really propose one last amendment to the attention of the Secretary of State? You see how we're trying to be constructive about the law? 21, and that is the 24th. We would like to ask you to leave paragraph 3 completely. And I'll give you a reason why. The current text states that the aid may not cover profits. In our view, this is pointless and, moreover, it raises an ambiguous and uncontrollable requirement. Profits can only be interpreted in the case of economic activity. The purchase of various assets, materials and services can also be financed from aid sources. Take the example that, when purchasing an asset, the aided buys from the distributor, where the purchase price includes the benefit of the distributor, i.e. its profits as well. The same can be said for cases where a service is purchased. The current text does not, in our view, express the intention of the legislator in a way that is as understandable as could be expected from a legislative text under the law on legislation. So I also recommend this amendment to the attention of the Secretary of State. Believe me, as my fellow Member has said, we are happy about this law, we are in favour of this law, and we really consider this law important. We have tabled these amendments, not because of the government's end or for any other reason, but in order to try constructively to contribute to making this law even better, it will serve even more the purpose I think you have set yourself. So I would ask you to consider adopting our amendments, and I will wish the new President and the new office good work for the future. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-305	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't think so. Then the general debate is closed. I'll ask L. Simon Laszlo. [[For signal:]] He says he wants to comment at the end, so I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-11-03-306	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I will not respond to all the points that have been raised, not even because some of the Members who have spoken have left the Chamber, and also because my fellow Member Pósan has responded substantially to several important points. In any case, I cannot avoid speaking to László Kiss, MEP of MSZP, even if he is no longer here. I am accustomed to the fact that if I represent the government as a national, then the Members who make the loudest criticism leave the room without waiting for an answer. They think it's elegant. I have already spoken about this, and I will discuss it in the future, because Parliament's debate is a genre in which, if the representative of the government listens to his fellow Members' speeches, and even tries to respond in some way in substance, it is expected that the critic, the critic, should be in the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is, I expected today's debate to be a fundamentally good and constructive debate. Surprisingly, most of this has been added by my better fellow Members... [[László Kiss returns to the room and interjects: "Good evening."]] Well, Congressman Kiss just arrived. He heard my call. I expected that this would be a bill to be supported by the majority of my fellow Members, and that there would be no serious debates, but that we would not agree on regulatory details at the most. Well, my fellow Member Szilágyi just gave me a witness to this, who immediately made a detailed debate out of the general debate by presenting all his amendments. My fellow Member Kiss, on the other hand, surprised me because, in a completely incomprehensible way, in a bill which I think is well-founded and professional, could not find a single point worthy of support and only expressed his criticisms. Moreover, I didn't understand what he was trying to say, from the beginning, when István Széchenyi gave an example, and there he reacted as a history teacher. I quote exactly what I said: 189 years ago, on 3 November, István Széchenyi offered a year's income for the foundation of the Hungarian Society of Sciences. [[0.20]] The congressman said he was a history teacher, and he wasn't. I don't know exactly what Széchenyi said, help me, Congressman. [[László Kiss: That's what he said!]] Then I don't know what you're complaining about, but let's quote Széchenyi himself, who said on November 3, 1825: I have no word here. I'm not a member of the ambassador's house. But I'm sure... [[István Ikotity: Owner!]] I'm an accomplice. I'm an accomplice. Thank you, I cannot read my own writing, and if you stand up to an institution that explains the Hungarian language, which helps our natives to be raised in Hungary, I will sacrifice one year's income on my belongings. I can't understand it any other way than that he offered his one-year income to establish the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I don't know what you had to say to me about this, but it wasn't a very meaningful speech. I also did not understand the problem with human and real sciences, why they need to be confronted, and why it believes that we are the ones who are facing them. Thank God, my fellow Member, Rózsa Hoffmann, has in some way fixed this speech for Congressman Kiss. The fact that Széchenyi offered his one year's income in line with goals that put the Hungarian language at the heart of Hungarian science was completely natural at the time of the Reform State Assembly, especially at a time when arts were actually part of the sciences. Think of the fact that there were prominent personalities in the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, such as János Arany, so the creators who were prominent in the field of literature were members of the Academy of Sciences for a very long time. In any case, I would like to say to the Member that Széchenyi has excelled in both human and real sciences and left an important life's work behind. If we refer only to real sciences, do I draw the Member's attention to some of his educational and scientific work? Even though he's a history teacher? , such as the publication on fox and deer hunting from 1823, The Horse Rul from 1828, the Credit? Do you know this one? 1830. Was that a mandatory reading in history? I was a history major myself. My dear serfs in 1831 are related to cholera, so this is also about real science. His book of Silk Hollow 1840: perhaps he remembers how important Széchenyi's activities were in the introduction of silkworm farming in Hungary. 1844 - is it really important? His work, tax and cash, or the famous Balaton steamboat of 1846, surely you have heard of this, because in the third grade history book of high school, even the drawing of a steamship can be seen at the mention of this. If I remember correctly, he was born in 1979, then he had a good chance of learning from the Závodszky history book, and he was in it; if my memory is correct, this drawing was on a unique side. [[Defiance.]] But as a history teacher, I'm sure you know that. And the proposal on the settlement of Hungarian transport in 1848 is an important work by Széchenyi to be mentioned in any case by a history teacher. So, my fellow Member, I don't know what your problem with the bill is, you didn't talk much about it, but what you said would have been better if you had kept it to yourself. [[László Kiss intervenes.]] I have listened to your speech with such respect and silence, Congressman, and you should hear me out. Thank you very much. I don't even understand what you've explained about centralization, because you've already acknowledged what I said in the author's exposé that there's fragmentation in the area. If there is fragmentation in this area, and you acknowledge it, then why is it a problem that we actually want to clean up here, and in some way we want to solve this fragmentation through a very effective new office to solve the support system for science? Compared to your speech, it was refreshing to hear my colleague Tibor Bana's speech, which I thank you for. I just want to respond to a few details. You have also highlighted what is clearly the intention of the bill to put SMEs in a position by the government. Let's just remember that this is not an easy thing to do. This can't be solved from one moment to the next. Today, innovation capacity is extremely low in most of Hungary's small and medium-sized enterprises. This cannot be solved simply with support. At the moment, many European Union support is for the survival of the SME sector, so to speak, to address their liquidity problems with a range of EU and domestic support. Obviously, this country cannot afford to spend resources on science, research, development and innovation on small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with their liquidity problems. Yet, we are confident that we can make great progress in this area. This centralised office can be the key to this, i.e. finding the right way to small and medium-sized enterprises which otherwise require innovation, research and development. As there are very many companies in the SME sector in Hungary, there is obviously no way to expect serious scientific research and development to start, but thanks to God, we have a lot of examples that contradict this. The relationship between higher education and the economy has also been highlighted by the Member. Do I think that the bill and the speeches made by my fellow members in favour of the Government are also good proof? Will I mention some specific examples? How important this is and how serious this is on the government side. On the issue of the head of the office, Mr Bana and Mr Szilágyi also expressed criticism, i.e. regarding the condition of appointment. Congressman Bana said that the country's scientific life should be served, not a party. That's what we think. I didn't read in the bill that there should be a party for the head of the office. I am sure that, after the adoption of the bill, the Prime Minister will appoint a person to lead this office, who is worthy of running this office, and has proven himself in many areas of Hungarian scientific life. In the process of examining applications, the Member needs transparency and awaits. This is what we look forward to, and we hope that this bill will provide a sufficient guarantee in the transparent evaluation and decision-making process. In any case, I thank you for the fact that, overall, if I have written it correctly, the Member said, in closing his speech, that he considers the direction to be good. István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, agrees that so far the system has been fragmented and that we need new beginnings. I thought it would be a very positive speech from now on, but from now on it destroyed its own basic statement, because it then criticized points that would otherwise assume and justify a single system. I would just like to mention very briefly what my fellow Member Pósán has already said in part why it is not true to my fellow Member Ikotity that the Registrar appointed by the Prime Minister decides everything. I'm 25. § (1) and (2) above all, which I shall read to you. The president of the NRDI Office shall decide on the R &amp; D tender, financed by the NRDI Fund, on the basis of a programme strategy approved by the Government. The application will be published by the NRDI Office and the applications will be submitted to the NRDI Office. So you decide on the invitation to tender and not about the evaluation of the application itself? Is that a big difference, my honourable fellow Member? President of the Office! And here's the second point. The applications are formally controlled by the NRDI Office and, in substance, by the specialised colleges requested by the NRDI Office. On the basis of a proposal from the colleges, the groups of experts appointed by the NRDI Office shall assess and prioritise proposals individually for compliance with the selection criteria for the relevant call for proposals. The expert groups in their work? as specified in the tender notice? request the opinion of additional anonymous experts. The colleges shall propose to the President of the NRDI Office support for each proposal on the basis of the results and ranking of the peer review teams. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is quite clear: professional decision-making is in the hands of professionals. With regard to the abolition of OTKA, I can say that I think the bill is quite clear. My fellow Members have also said that there will be a single system of applications, and I will also answer my fellow Member Szabó's question here that the resources we have planned for OTKA in the 2015 budget will obviously go here and serve the purpose of scientific research. [[0.30]] My colleague Ikotity said that the policy that we represent is in fact only in the interest and purpose of the multinationals to bring in cheap labour and, in fact, thanks to the investment policy that we support, there is no innovation result. He did not use that term, but it was the message of what he said that trained workers and not professionals were employed. I would like to say, Mr President, that we have concluded far more than 30 strategic agreements with large Hungarian companies, which are mostly foreign-owned or mostly foreign-owned and multinational companies. These strategic agreements - all of them? was part of R &amp; D cooperation. I can give you a lot of concrete examples. In my former district, Rácalmás has the Hankook rubber factory, a Korean rubber factory. Take a look at the fact that, as a result of his work, rubber industry skilled worker training was launched in Dunaújváros, rubber engineering training was started at the Dunaújváros College, and, in addition to professional training, independent research programmes were launched to serve the Hungarian rubber industry. But I could say the Audi R &amp; D centre of Győr, which was founded by Audi as a result of the agreement with the government, but I could say the Mercedes plant in Kecskemét, or I could highlight the Egis Pharmaceutical Factory or the Gedeon Richter Pharmaceutical Factory.In 2012, when the government concluded a strategic agreement with Richter Pharmaceuticals, CEO Erik Bogsch announced that the Richter Pharmaceutical Company had undertaken to use at least 8 percent of its turnover for research and development and innovation purposes, and Richter also undertook to employ 800 people in its various production units and units in which they deal with innovation goals and research and development. I think it speaks for itself. But if we look at it, honourable Member, what does R &amp; D expenditure in Hungary today look like compared to GDP? because he also challenged it and said what would be optimal? I think we should look at where we started. In 1998, when the first Orbán government took over government from the socialists, R &amp; D has been growing ever since. At present, in 2012, it had already exceeded 1.2 percent. This is compared to the fact that it went down nicely at the time of the change of regime, it was still 1 percent in 1991, by 1995 the R &amp; D resource decreased to 0.6 per cent compared to GDP, and it had to stand up from here, to climb up from 1998 onwards. During the last four years, during the second Orbán government's governance, this amount has increased steadily, so that is why we are now over 1.2 percent. We would also like that to be 2.5 percent, something like this was said by the Member, but we are not here at the moment, and the capacity of the Hungarian economy should also be taken into account. In creating such an office, I see the possibility that it will make sense, by the way, to increase these rates and to make meaningful use of the resources. I commend the interpretation provisions to my fellow Member, Szabolcs Szabó, because he has asked for a number of concepts that I think are quite accurate, in fact, that the interpretation provisions are not precise enough, but are precisely defined in the draft legislation. I responded to OTKA's budget. He referred to professionalism as one of the most serious criticisms and the lack of professionalism as to whether professionalism would exist in this decision-making process. I see sufficient guarantees in the draft legislation. My fellow Member, Mr Szilágyi, while making a detailed debate here from the general debate and presenting all the amendments, we were pleased to have at least been able to hear these excellent amendments; he also read the amendment which wanted to clarify in some way the conditions for the appointment of the President. I don't agree with you. Last time I was here, I was in a debate asking us why we write all kinds of preliminary signs and categories for presidential candidates. [[István Szávay: 'Cause you specifically pushed someone!]] Congressman, let me finish. But while you were yelling, my fellow Member here said by interrogation that it was written specifically on someone. If we had formulated the conditions as precisely as you read from your amendment, they would have said in the debate that we might have written the bill on István Pálinkás. This bill even allows you to be... József Pálinkás, I am delirious as well. [[Defiance. ? Turning to Dr. József Pálinkás in the box:]] I'm sorry, Mr. President. I'm sorry. [[Defiance.]] István Pálinkás is an excellent poet friend of mine, so let's face it, it's half past five in the evening! So we have written the bill on President József Pálinkás, but you may even be president of this office, because you are in line with the current, not very strict conditions. [[Defiance.]] But we are considering, my honourable fellow Member, whether we will accept your amendment. However, I am very concerned about the other amendment's possibility of recourse to a court against a non-winner. That would be a complete kick in the ass of professionalism. Imagine that with a nuclear physicist? Is this a good example, Mr. President? ? in the case of a very complex, highly complex research application, loser applicants shall apply to the court. How, in what court procedure will the judge decide that? Like what? Or the judge doesn't want me to be discriminated against that I said "judge," so the judge or the judge... [[György Szilágyi: Haven't you heard of rules of procedure not being observed?]] Congressman, let's not yell. Let me tell you. [[György Szilágyi: There is no need to twist the words, Mr. Secretary of State.]] I'm not twisting it, Congressman. I'm just trying to be serious about your speech. [[György Szilágyi repeatedly intervenes. ? Noise.]] Okay, but one more time, let me finish. So we'd like to see how a court can handle a strictly scientific issue. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] take a stand. I would be very, very careful: nowhere in the world there is an example that there is an opportunity for redress in either artistic or scientific applications, and even no need to justify rejected applications, and that is understandable and correct. I had the misfortune of writing a losing OTKA contest, and I didn't know what to do, and I had to accept that the contest didn't win. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, because Congressman Szilágyi is now impatient [[György Szilágyi: If you're talking nonsense, Mr. Secretary, of course I am. ? A voice from the benches of the governing parties: That's why we respect each other! ? Sallai R. Benedict: It's not important, let's move on.]] No, that's why I'm reacting. I still have some time. If you want, I can talk to you for ten minutes. So, my fellow Member Sallai said that human sciences are largely non-competitive, but the concept of real sciences, at least competitiveness, is incomprehensible in human sciences. I strongly question that. I would like to draw your attention to Kunó Klebelsberg's car racing analogy as to why it is important to cultivate human sciences, whether it is a medieval competitive situation, or why arts and arts are important. By the way, Magdolna Csath highlights creativity as one of the most important aspects of human capital as a factor of competitiveness. If you consider the success story of the Nobel Prize winners of the Evangelical High School of Fassior and see what they remember most about the high-quality education of Fassior High School, none of them highlights the teaching of physics or mathematics, but the singing and music education that strengthened and served their creativity. So I would just like to say that both arts and human sciences serve competitiveness in an extraordinary way. Let's not talk about language teaching, and the rest. I therefore believe that competitiveness is also within science, because human science workshops, historical workshops and the rest are competing with each other; this is true in a domestic and international approach. So they do serve competitiveness, so when we put competitiveness itself and its service in the focus of support through science, science policy and support system, then, my fellow Member, I think that we have taken into account and serve human science as well. [[0.40]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the fact that so many people participated in the debate at this late hour and for having so many meaningful speeches. Thank you very much for the fact that my fellow opposition Members, both the LMP and my better Members, have spoken to it in substance and in fact constructively. In addition to the fact that I disagreed with some of his amendments to Mr Szilágyi, he also said things that I think should be considered specifically. I regret that the MSZP did not send István Hiller here, because then at least the debate would have made sense, so the presence on the part of the MSZP did not make much sense. I call on my fellow Members to support this bill and to contribute with their vote so that this House can adopt it as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-307	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the draft law between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the declarations provided for in the Agreement on the surrender procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway until closure. The submission was made in T/1762. can be read by everyone on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal has been conducted by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2014-11-03-308	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to make Hungarian declarations to the agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway on the surrender procedure between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway. The Agreement was signed on 28 June 2006 and has not yet entered into force. Until its entry into force, extradition cases between Hungary and Iceland and Norway will be dealt with on the basis of the Council of Europe Convention on Extradition and its Additional Protocols, which were published in Annex XVIII of 1994. It's been announced by law. Pursuant to Article 216 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the agreement is binding on Hungary, so its application in Hungary does not require any specific legislative action. The aim of the agreement is to speed up and simplify extradition cases, thereby increasing the effectiveness of international law enforcement and criminal prosecution. According to the Agreement, EU Member States and Iceland and Norway shall, on the basis of an arrest warrant issued in the form set out in the Annex to the Agreement, hand over to the authorities of the issuing State, if there are no grounds for refusal, the person seized in their territory. The execution of an agreed arrest warrant is primarily based on the procedure between judicial authorities. The Agreement requires Member States to make declarations to specific articles and to send them to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union. The declarations shall provide for the application by the Member States of the specific provisions of the Agreement and details thereof. The declarations need to be made by law, as they concern the regulation of issues which affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. The provisions of the Agreement have been drawn up in the light of the provisions of the Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant. In line with this, the statements contained in the bill comply with the domestic law transposing the Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant, CLXXX of 2012 on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. the rules of the law. Our fundamental aim was to bring the applicable content of this agreement as close as possible to the provisions of this Framework Decision and therefore to make statements and reservations to the agreement that comply with the rules of the domestic law transposing the Framework Decision. On matters not covered by the Agreement, the 1996 XXXVIII on international legal assistance in criminal matters. The provisions of law shall prevail. The agreement may enter into force if all EU Member States make the necessary declarations. It is also in Hungary's interest to make statements in accordance with Hungarian law in time and to facilitate the entry into force of the agreement. Dear Parliament, Please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-309	It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-03-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly about the bill before us. At the end of October, the Government presented the proposal under discussion to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union, the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway. The proposal submitted is preceded by the authorisation given by the Council of the European Union in Decision 2006/697/EC to sign the Agreement on the surrender procedure between the abovementioned countries. On this basis, the European Union undertakes to improve judicial cooperation between the Member States of the European Union and Iceland and Norway, without prejudice to the rules protecting individual freedom. The conclusion of the Agreement is based on Article 216 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Paragraph 2 of the Article states that agreements concluded by the Union are binding on the institutions and Member States of the Union. It follows that the agreement is binding on Hungary. It does not require legislative action to be applied, but only requires the contracting parties, including Hungary, to make a specific declaration. The proposal therefore provides information on the application by the Member States and its detailed rules. The purpose of this agreement is to speed up and simplify extradition cases. This transfer system will help to speed up the transfer of suspects and prisoners and to better control decisions on the execution of arrest warrants. Under the Agreement, Member States and Iceland and Norway shall, on the basis of an arrest warrant issued in the form set out in the Annex to the Agreement, transfer the person caught in their territory to the authorities of the issuing State. The purpose of this agreement is to bring the provisions of the Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant as close as possible to the provisions of the European Arrest Warrant, and it is therefore appropriate that Hungary attach to the Annex declarations which comply with the rules of the domestic law transposing the Framework Decision on the European Arrest Warrant. The fundamental idea of the agreement is that if, on the basis of an act issued by a judicial authority, he requests the transfer of a person in criminal proceedings or has already been convicted, he or she may be executed in the other State Party pursuant to this Decision and the person shall be transferred as soon as possible. In the new procedural system, interstate relations are essentially replaced by links between judicial authorities. The execution of the agreed arrest warrant is primarily based on the procedure between judicial authorities and the elimination of the level of administrative and political decision in the traditional extradition procedure. Finally, I would like to stress that the agreements concluded by the Union are binding on the institutions and Member States of the Union, so the agreement is binding on Hungary, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-311	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss, on behalf of the MSZP.
u2014-11-03-312	Thank you for the floor. Since I have seen in the previous debate that the fundamental knowledge of the Hungarian language is not always a realistic objective, I would like to make it simpler to say that there is no misunderstanding that the sentences in Hungarian cannot be interpreted by the government side. [[0.50]] Since the aim of the agreement is to speed up and simplify extradition cases and since the MSZP does not want to be an obstacle to the adoption of this bill, the MSZP supports the adoption of the proposal with these objectives. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-313	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] If not, I will ask Secretary of State Répássy if he wishes to comment. [[Dr. Répássy on Róbert's signal:]] No. Then that concludes the item. I would like to point out that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Congressman Ander Balázs has applied for a speech after today's agenda. I'll give you the floor.
u2014-11-03-314	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The results of Somogy county are even more tragic than the shockingly bad population figures of Hungary, and it becomes even more clear that halting the decline of the population is a matter of vital importance for Hungarians. In Somogy, natural weight loss also precedes national trends since 1978, with 13.5 live births and 15.3 deaths per thousand inhabitants in 1980. The same indicators changed to 9.4 and 13.6 in 2001, which means more than doubling the rate of weight loss. At the time of the survey of the 1980 censor, 360,000 people were added, ten years later, 345 thousand in 1990, and only 338 thousand inhabitants in Somogy County were added to the 2001 census. This population has melted to 316,000 people according to the 2011 census. So over thirty years, Somogy's population has gone from 360,000 to 316,000, indicating almost double the national rate, i.e. a decrease of more than 12 percent. The process of preventing the re-production of the population is at the root of the 19th century. It dates back to the first half of the century, and due to the nation-digesting unification from the Ormany of South Baranya, in the year 1965, natural weight loss was detected in 163 of the 252 settlements of Somogy County. KSH surveys show that negative processes, i.e. the decrease in births and the increase in natural weight loss, have accelerated and mortality declines are showing too slow improvement. As a result of the downward spiral, we have now come to the point that population loss causes measurable economic loss. Last year, only 2,400 children were born in Somogy, but nearly 5,000 died. In other words, there are two funerals for every birth in Koppany's land. This tragic picture of the disastrously bad national figures makes it more obvious that our national issue of fate is really population and our future will indeed be decided among Hungarian mothers. Based on the data provided by KSH, is it clear that the population of Somogya is an annual population? in a repeat way? It is reduced by at least 2200-2600 people, i.e. the decrease is compared to the population of a smaller town or larger village here. And if we factor in our young people leaving abroad as a result of negative migration processes, there will be an even more worrying picture. Every year, as a sinking Atlantis, the population of a more populous village disappears, and the ever-increasing trend of population loss, already reaching 1 percent, drives the county inexorably towards a total demographic collapse. The figures are even more disappointing than the national figures, as last year and unfortunately this year, Somogy will be able to prognosticate nationally, and will take its share out of two Mohácsnyi 40,000 weight loss by almost 6 percent of the country's population. While there are only one and a half deaths for all births at national level, we can expect two deaths for all births here. The problems are marked by the north-east-south slope in the county's regional processes, which will result in the southern regions of Somogy, the territory of the district of Nagyatád, Csurgó and Barcsi, which is more demographic erosion than already outlined, which, with the exodus of the working population, will inevitably result in the preservation of the backward economy. Even the renowned English economist Keynes considered that there was a clear interaction between the economy and population, as infrastructure and institutional costs continue to increase with the declining, ageing population, and investment opportunities are legally narrowing down. The shift in age structure rates contributes even more to the migration of the most dynamic layers of people, thus weakening the human resources of our county. Since the demographic disaster predicted at the national level by the middle of the century will be reached a decade and a half earlier in Somogy, thus talking about creativity, willingness to innovate and economic recovery would be unrealistic under such conditions, so the concept of land development that is not real will remain empty. However, I would like to talk about all this next time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2014-11-03-315	István Szávay, Member of Parliament, applied for a post-meeting speech:, Isn't he a musician? He's just a genius. 125 years ago, the only Hungarian world hit was born with the title Seress Rezső, author of Sad Sunday. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-316	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Rezső Seress, the only Hungarian world hit, was born 125 years ago on November 3, 1889. It is about the song dealt with by nearly 300 European newspapers in the winter of 1935. The composer, who had become world famous in a short time, saw the light of day in Budapest as Rudolf Spitzer, a child of Jewish origin, but had already been baptized as a poor family. He left his school early, wanted to be an artist, but his almost fatal fall from trapeze prevented him from doing so. He met Tivadar Bilichi in a small pub on the way to Olympia, acting on his advice. He spent nine years in the City Park Art scene, in the midst of constant deprivation, as the Hungarian society lost the world war, mutilated in Trianon and bled out during the communist reign of terror had no money for culture and entertainment. Paradoxically, however, World War II defeats Seress by world fame, because Hungary was forbidden to produce records, radio is still the privilege of the few, so in the twenties more and more crowds listen to live music in small parties hidden away by evenings. In 1925 Seress, who composed his own compositions in the City Park, will come in with a song entitled Another Night..., which was sung by a servant, shoe-cleaner and coachman at the time in Pest. From here on, the VII. Between 1923 and 1933, hits like Come, My Bodri Dog..., the Shining Snowflake or Love One Another are born. He loves his wife from a rich military officer, the most beautiful woman of Pest, two heads taller than her, but her songs still reflect sadness, disappointment, world pain, but they make her popular for the audience of the age. In 1935, László Jávor, a famous publicist of the 8 Hours Journal, would then visit him with a lyrics that would be written on Sad Sunday. To this day, the popular rumor of his day that Jávor, who had excellent police connections, arranged to find a copy of the song in the hands of two suicides at the time, which had been caused by suspicion, undoubtedly helped to spread the work quickly. The anthem of suicides became known and the melody became dreaded in the eyes of many, and soon its author was known everywhere from China to America. Yet Seress remained the same smoky little musician in the pub in Budapest, who could cast an unforgettable mood from six to dawn in the evening with only two fingers of his right hand, because he never really learned to play the piano with his scratchy, hoarse voice, because he was constantly smoking cigarettes, and with songs he got whistling, because he didn't know music, others played his tunes. Even though you have a palace in Buda, I've never been loved by anyone, I've become a quiet man, I like to be drunk, his songs have woven through and filled the nights of the 30s and 40s in Pest. When they took him to work, a German officer, who himself had heard him play in Pest once, recognized him, saved his life. And when the Communists, on the charge of serving Horthy, turned their compositions on a index, Gobbi Hilda, who was a fan of his personal songs and who had good party relations, reached his rehabilitation. [[1.00]] In America, a fabulous fortune, $370,000, was expected, since his sad Sunday, translated into 28 languages, sold in the order of ten million, was programmed by world-famous performers such as Ray Charles, Josephine Baker, Louis Armstrong or Frank Sinatra. But he wouldn't have left Elizabeth City for the world. Since the '60s, when he was already playing in Kippa, less and less people came to him, the people sat in front of the television or listened to rock and roll, and there was no demand for his music. I lived in the same house as Seress Rezső for a while, just below the floor. I remember him always listening to Sad Sundays, every day, exactly two to six, one processing after another. What's the matter with you? Gábor Presser remembered the musician who had been depressed. Rezső Seress ended up laying lonely, in the midst of deprivation from the balcony of his apartment. He survived the crash, but remained determined: on January 11, 1968, on a sad Thursday at the MÁV hospital, he strangled himself with a wire bearing the counterweight of his cast. In 1983, Péter Müller directed a play about him, and in 1999 he made a movie with the same title as his biggest hit, which was inspired by his personality, but unfortunately his name did not become known to the general public, although I was pleased to read just now that the MTI commemorated the anniversary of his birth today. Elvis Presley was named after Budapest, Lieutenant Columbo and his dog received a public statue at the beginning of Falk Miksa Street, but Seress Rezsőre was only a former residence in the VII. Dob Street 46 district reminds me of a memorial plaque in 2009. Otto Klemperer, one of the greatest conductors of the age, wrote this in Seress's guest book since that time: "Not a musician?" He's just a genius. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I think that this elusive genius deserves to have an undeserved name for public space in Budapest. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-03-317	Thank you. In response to the next speech on the agenda, MEP László Kiss came forward with the title of the national political evaluation of the elections in question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-318	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As is known, early one-way parliamentary elections were held in Ukraine on 26 October 2014. It is worth recalling that the Ukrainian legislation, half of the rada's 450-person location, is decided on a party list and half in the individual districts. Of the 203 registered political parties, 29 made national lists and 52.42 percent participated in this election. This election was won by the People's Front led by the current Prime Minister of Arseny Jacenyuk, but this is where the composition of the rada is important, as Petro Porosenko Blokk has already taken the lead with the candidates in individual districts, as it has won in several individual districts. The process of forming a government has begun. The third place was won by self-help led by the mayor of Lemberg. It is interesting that the Opposition Block, organized from the former Party of the Regions, achieved less than 10%, and Timoshenko's party barely made it to the legislature. The Ukrainian President has already announced that he has proposed to the future political group of the party alliance behind it and bearing its name that the current Prime Minister should be re-elected as Prime Minister; Ukraine, therefore, seems to be on the way to change. From a Hungarian point of view, it is extremely important and the Hungarian Socialist Party welcomes the fact that the Ukrainian legislature will also be a Hungarian representative, as László Brenzovics, President of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, has obtained a mandate on the list of Porosenko Blokk. I have to say that it is not without precedent that a Hungarian Member acquires a seat on the list of other parties in the Ukrainian legislative process, since before that, István Gajdos was also a Hungarian member of the legislative process. Just like Brenzovich, he was given a mandate on the list of a Ukrainian party, and Brenzovich is expected to resign from his party membership in the Hungarian party as a result. It is interesting, however, that, unlike Brenzovic, Gajdos was not considered Hungarian by the current Hungarian government, and for this reason, because he was given a mandate in the colours of other parties and on the list of other parties; we remembered this earlier. I think it is important that you change the current practice of the government, and even though Brenzovich does not have a mandate on the list of the Hungarian party, consider him a legitimate Hungarian representative, although I think that the government may be able to do so now. I have to say, however, that there are still some points of dispute in the Ukrainian-Hungarian context that the resolution of which awaits itself, because the Ukrainian Parliament abolished the language law in force from 2012 in February this year, and it is true that the head of state has not yet signed it. However, the amendment of the Constitution announced by Ukrainian President Petro Porosenko on 3 July this year would provide a much smaller opportunity for the regional use of minority languages, as the draft would not be a decision at the state level, but at the level of local authorities, to ensure the special status of minority languages in the relevant administrative units. In all likelihood, therefore, only those bodies of representatives would decide to grant the special status of these languages, in which the representatives of the minorities in question are majority, or, mutatis mutandis, members of these minorities make up the majority of the population in the administrative units concerned, so the current threshold of 10 per cent would actually rise to 50 per cent. This is a very important issue, and it also forces the Hungarian position to react from a national political point of view, as this would certainly be a step backwards from the current practice. The question of the Hungarian constituency is also very important, which Porosenko has promised, but that remains only a promise. Here it is important to remember that this is precisely why President Brenzovich received, so to speak, the prestigious list seat from President Porosenko's party, because it has not been implemented, or only a promise remains in the Hungarian constituency. I think, however, that the Hungarian government must be present on an ongoing basis and support the struggle of the locals with the establishment of the Hungarian independent constituencies. Finally, the future pro-European Ukrainian government should also settle the issue of dual citizenship, as Article 4 of the Ukrainian Constitution states, I quote, that there is only one citizenship in Ukraine. In the same way, the existing citizenship law adopted in 2001 also provides for a single nationality. On the Ukrainian side, there has not yet been any public intention to deal with this formally, but I think that this would be an important issue of national policy for the Hungarian direction in relation to the new government. Thank you so much for listening to me this evening.
u2014-11-03-319	To speak after the next agenda, Mr István Ikotity spoke with the title of the future in Concrete. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-320	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent months, there has been a lot of talk about big cities and quite small settlements, just last we heard about Somogya, but there is little mention of small and medium-sized cities. I would like to say a few words about these and the perspective of these cities and settlements. Can we see that small settlements are losing their economic foundations in a row, in effect, because of which they were created at some point where they were created? is it agriculture or some kind of mining activity or anything? It's not there anymore. So, basically, it's the habit that connects those people there, and unfortunately, it's becoming more and more visible in the cities. As villages lose their economic base, so do cities. On the example of one city, I would like to demonstrate that - [[István Szávay: Baja.]] Thank you for your help? how visible this is and how clearly visible it is that these municipalities do not use existing EU funds to pull themselves out and re-establish their economic base. That's right, Baja, I'd like to say a few words about Baja. Forgive me for being completely biased, my family has lived in this town for hundreds of years, and I'm very attached to it, and I'm very sad to tell you that. Just a few words about the city. Obviously, I wouldn't talk about his famous natives or his great location, but I think that among Hungarians, how difficult a settlement is is always a recognition. Imagine a settlement like that? A little geography? There are five Hungarian cities and several foreigners closer to the settlement than the county seat. Listed as Szekszárd 40 kilometers away, is the nearby Sombor 60 kilometers away? What's in Serbia, they used to be in a county with Baja? , Pécs 80 kilometers, Subotica 80 kilometers, Szeged 100 kilometers, Kaposvár airline 100 kilometers, Osijek 105 kilometers, and Kecskemét, the county seat is 110 kilometers away; quite a shocking situation. Now, despite this, there is already a motorway nearby, so there would not be the kind of obstacle in the way of the development of a settlement that has been mentioned many times, since the M6 motorway is quite close at Bátaszék. [[1.10]] Let's see what this settlement's going to do. I've been looking up all the applications you've won in the last term. These proposals: more than HUF 10 billion were spent on proposals that are huge investments, strengthening a high beach wall, worth more than HUF 2 billion forints, tourism investment with meaningless elements that do not qualify as tourist attractions, and do not attract tourists. Bridges between two flood points, for example, and a list of them. Channel development, which is not necessarily necessary, is investment in improving the quality of drinking water that is not necessarily necessary. And many of those worth more than HUF 10 billion, think that out of ten billion forints, exactly five jobs have been created throughout a cycle. That's quite disappointing, isn't it? And why I gave him this address? It can be seen that from these investments, from a ruined main development project, from shorewall reinforcement, how it will, obviously, not a settlement will recover, the foundations will not be created to have a stable economy in the city. I used the expression "the future poured into concrete." At the time when EU applications started in Hungary, it was very often heard from experts that there were two ways to use EU funds. One way is by pouring into concrete, like the southern countries, so to speak, to create huge motorways, roads, and structures. This is a bad way. The other option is to invest in people, i.e. in knowledge, education, innovation developments, or business development, and then pay off in such a way that they are profitable businesses and re-create and re-create this money, from which you can then make motorways and large investments. Well, unfortunately, we've poured these amounts into concrete, and obviously we're looking for a way out. There's a pretty sad future ahead of a small settlement, and there's a lot of that, unfortunately. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2014-11-03-321	In response to the next agenda, Mr Sándor Bodó, on behalf of Fidesz, asked for a decision on the social firewood subsidies, the first deliveries were delivered. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-03-322	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the title of my comment after today's agenda is:. A decision has been made on the social firewood subsidies for 2014. Well, this title, this content, certainly doesn't have much new information in your attention, because, as I have heard from the previous comments, the representatives who are committed to rural Hungary are still sitting here at this late or perhaps even early hour. However, the importance and strength of the case justify discussing the background, details and content of the decision here in the House of the country. On 27 October 2014, the Ministry of Government and Interior decided on how and how the social firewood subsidies for 2014. Naturally, as in previous years, the government has demonstrated with this measure its social sensitivity, i.e. its intention to help municipalities. According to the tender notice, the municipalities with a population of less than 5 thousand were entitled to apply for aid. This is important information, since larger city leaders are often charged with why they do not. Well, they do not have the opportunity to do so yet, but it is worth considering whether there may be a demand for this in settlements over 5,000 people, and there are also persons who may be in need. Following the practice of earlier years and partly renewed, besides the firewood, it was also possible for municipalities to apply for brown coal, i.e. there was definitely a richer choice and the possibility to apply. The weight of government assistance is characterised by some specific data: 2068 municipalities received some support, i.e. almost two thirds of the settlements of Hungary. The amount used in the programme reached almost HUF 3 billion, and an even more specific figure to make the approach a little closer to life, for example, 56 settlements from Hajdú-Bihar County were supported, which also proves a ratio of approximately two thirds. And to be more specific, from the 5th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar county, where I came from, 9 out of the 15 municipalities were entitled to apply, and each settlement was also involved in this programme. Nearly 40-55 percent of the settlements had resources to meet their needs, i.e. 50 percent of the aid requested was granted to municipalities. It was an important measure of criticism, and it is also worth knowing that the proportion of people receiving housing support was one of the key indicators. Compared to the total population, this is between 4.2 and 15.6 percent of the constituency. It is also worth knowing how the amount of aid and content relate to each other. In the case of firewood, for example, an aid of 7.4 million means 389 cubic metres of firewood, while in the case of brown coal, say, an aid of 11 million HUF, for example, 2503 million is a fuel for the municipality and for the families in need. Well, from these data, from these facts, it can be seen that the intention is noble, the tender is feasible, and it is certainly worth considering the possible expansion. The scale and strength of the programme requires serious attention and considerable publicity from all of us, from the stakeholders, and I think that this will certainly help rural authorities, small settlements and families in need. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-03-323	Member Márta Demeter came forward after the next agenda:.2013 was the year of demise of defence and law enforcement. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2014-11-03-324	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament will soon discuss the 2015 budget, and I think it is necessary to look at what has happened in the field of defence and police since 2010. We have the same data on the 2013 accounts, and I think it is worth starting from this when we look at the 2015 budget. Then I'd like to say a few sentences about this closing account. In Viktor Orbán's second government cycle, the Ministry of Defence suffered the most severe austerity in its ratio, since the total expenditure of this chapter was 1.2 percent in proportion to GDP in 2010, .97 percent in 11 and 0.95% in 2012, while according to the 2013 report, only 0.88% in 2012. [[1.20]] In absolute terms, this means that while in 2010 HM's total expenditure exceeded HUF 317 billion, it was only HUF 257 billion in 2013. The devastating impact of under-financing in recent years can also be seen clearly from the 2013 accounts. After HUF 44 billion in 2012, the Ministry of Defence suffered another HUF 20 billion loss in 2013. In 2013, the net assets of the chapter to zero increased from HUF 230.7 million to the gross value from 20.9 percent to 28.6 percent last year, indicating an ageing of the assets associated with the task. While the Ministry of Defence provided less resources for national and military development programmes than in 2012. After the deep flight of the last few years, the army of the Hungarian Defence Forces continued to decline by 391 people, including the largest number of contract crews. According to the report, the appropriations resulting from the incapacity of the staff and the savings of benefits outside the wage were used by the Ministry of Defence to maintain operational capacity. Overall, the report on the implementation of the 2013 cost clearly shows that the inadequacy of the budget support foreseen in 2013 and the current structure of the use of resources jeopardises the performance of the fundamental tasks of the Hungarian Defence Forces, leading to the violation of Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law, which is the following: Hungary's armed forces are the Hungarian Defence Forces. The fundamental task of the Hungarian Defence Office is the military defence of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders, the performance of joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from an international treaty, and the conduct of humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. So, basically, that's the functionality that's being put at risk by this terrible underfundedness. So now, because of the government's faulty policy, the continuous withdrawal of funds and irresponsible decisions, the defence has drifted to the brink of inability to operate, and that it can still function at all, it is solely due to the excellent performance of our soldiers. We can't even see rosy things in the area of law enforcement. While the report emphasized stable, balanced funding, the stock is constantly struggling with the shortcomings of everyday work in the line of duty. The police budget is under-planned year after year, so its functionality can only be guaranteed by the interim resources allocated on a case-by-case basis. This makes it extremely difficult to manage rational, plan-like farming and does not provide a safe background for the balanced professional functioning of the police. So basically, we can say that 2013 was a catastrophic year in both the defence and the police, in terms of funding and operating conditions. The situation has not changed in 2014, and we will obviously see the exact figures of this next year, and what can be established in advance from the 2015 budget is that the government will not change the world in these areas in 2015, even though it is time to think responsibly on both of these issues. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-03-325	The representative of the Government indicated that, in the case of Mr Sándor Bodó and Mrs Márta Demeter, he wished to respond in writing to what was said. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 10 November 2014. Thank you very much for your work, this meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 1:23 p.m.]]
