u2014-05-26-0	Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that János Pócs and Mr Dezső Liberty will be in charge of the meeting for my assistance. Dear House, On behalf of Mr Gábor Harangozó, MEP István, on behalf of the MSZP, today's speech before the agenda: " To whom does the government intend the Hungarian land? " The title is given below. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-05-26-1	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Last night's participation data and results confirmed that if we want people to pay more attention to us and not turn away from us, we should only be concerned about the country and the people. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Hungarian soil is the basis for the existence of rural life, so I will address this issue in my speech before today's agenda. The usual element of government propaganda is the protection of the Hungarian soil in a public talk about agricultural land, so that foreigners can put their hands on it. Of course, the government is not in a hurry to protect the soil from artificial nail hands, but according to the letter, the law is that the Hungarian land cannot be owned abroad. Well, fellow Members, that is not true. The government side has left the garden loophole open so that citizens and companies of countries preferred in foreign economic relations can obtain the right of disposal over Hungarian soil in Hungary. As I have seen, the new governance structure will provide just the right framework for this. Dear fellow Members, If anything should cloud your clarity, allow me to explain how it is possible to take the Hungarian land into the hands of Russian, Azerbaijani, Turkish or any other citizen or company. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Consider a specific example. A Hungarian company, a legal entity, could legally acquire land, say, a thousand hectares, before the land law came into force. This property will remain in his possession after 1 May. What happens if, for example, 25 percent of the shares in this company are bought by a Russian, Azerbaijani, Turkish or Eastern opening by any other foreign person or company? Can he do that? Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, You can do so, because there is no prohibition that a person or company should not buy land directly over land in such a way. Of course, he doesn't buy the land directly, he buys the company that owns the land. So it seems that land is being protected as well as private pension funds payments. Dear fellow Members, If the aim is not to save the Hungarian soil in the spirit of Eastern economic networking, then this can be proved relatively simply. From this place, I would like to call upon the future head of the agricultural portfolio to submit to the government a draft which closes this loophole of the foreign handover of the Hungarian land and does not allow the Minister of Foreign Affairs or any other member of the government to discourage it. If that is not the case, honourable Members, then the question is legitimately raised as to who the government is planning the Hungarian land for. Dear Parliament, While the new land law leaves the loophole open to even provide eastern oligarchs to Hungarian soil, it also takes away livelihoods, the right to land use from small people. Individuals who are not farmers, who can now be called hobby gardeners, can no longer obtain land use rights. Tenants who work in closed gardens or hobby gardens previously known as the former must say good-bye to the little land they cultivate, and they cannot rent it again. From now on, they can only acquire the right to collect fruit or locusts, and they can no longer produce peas on their table. Dear Parliament, There may also be a mistake in the best-intentioned legislation. If it's a coincidence, it needs to be corrected. But, you know, the whole picture, the way it is, is more than weird. Of course, the acquisition of property through companies may have been left open so that Hungarian oligarchs - let's say the Nyerges empire - could gain more land. But, ladies and gentlemen, it must be noted that the Hungarian land must serve the livelihood of people living in the countryside and not the enrichment and acquisition of Hungarian and especially foreign oligarchs. Therefore, I call on you, the Hungarian Parliament, to close this loophole. I'm sure you can count on us as partners. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-05-26-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Gyula Budai. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-3	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, After the election of the MSZP in yesterday's European Union Parliament, the question asked by my fellow Member Bellozó was a little strange. [[Dr. András Schiffer and Dr. Bernadett Wind intervene.]] If I were to reply briefly, I could give a very simple answer to my fellow Member: the Hungarian government is planning the farmland for Hungarian farmers. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Why don't you do that?]] After the expiry of the EU moratorium, there was a risk that speculative capital investors would be ready to buy up the areas they had previously looked at. That is why Parliament created the new earth traffic law, which, contrary to my fellow Member's statement, closes any loophole that would give these foreign investors, whether EU or non-EU investors, the opportunity to buy Hungarian land. That is precisely why we put this legislation into force on 1 May, and that is why Parliament created the new earth traffic law. According to this law, Hungarian farmers who live locally can buy agricultural land, i.e. farmers. At the same time, I would like to point out to my fellow Member that, at the same time as the land law, we intend to change the land estate structure that the socialists had developed in the previous period, and on this basis we intend to transform the land estate structure between large and small farms in a proportion of 80 to 20 percent for small farms. [[13.10]] I do not understand my fellow Member Bellozó, because here in Parliament I and others have repeatedly said that nearly 221 thousand hectares of land were tendered under the 'Earth for Farmers' programme, 80 percent of which was won by natural persons, family farmers and agricultural entrepreneurs. I think that the questions raised by the MSZP are rather strange, because while my fellow Member Zoltán Gögös was sitting behind me, the comments of the MSZP were nothing more than that he expressed his wishes and comments in order to protect the major estates, large farms and large enterprises. The MSZP has not so far been concerned about small and medium-sized family farms, but it is music to my ears that the MSZP is again concerned about the fate of farmers who are truly living in agriculture, and has raised its word for these farmers. I hope that this is not a deceitful attitude, but, throughout this cycle, they will really be worried about these farmers. And how successful the " Land for Farmers " programme has been, we have no better proof that more than 40,000 hectares of land have been won by young farmers - every third winner was a young farmer - and contrary to previous rental conditions, about 600 tenants in total, more than 6,000 leases have now been concluded, so there are 6,000 new owners of these lands. I believe that the new Land Traffic Act and the laws restricting pocket contracts not voted by the MSZP in Parliament have created all legal frameworks for Hungary that speculative capital investors who wish to buy land in Hungary cannot buy land and that the termination of illegally concluded contracts which, unfortunately, in the time of the socialists and their assistance, have been able to implement by those foreign investors that we now have to push out of the country legally and reclaim these lands to the Hungarian State. I believe that the socialists should have thought about this, and they would have preferred to have voted in Parliament on the new land traffic law or the law limiting pocket contracts. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-4	Mr Péter Harrach, Head of Group, KDNP, also spoke before the agenda: "The Responsibility of EU Representatives. " Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-5	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The results of the Sunday election were assessed differently by the leaders of the parties: Prime Minister talked about Hungary and the responsibilities of the Members, the representatives of the opposition parties about their own organisation and the reorganization of the opposition side. The election, as already mentioned in the campaign, had a dual purpose, on the one hand, an effective representation of national interest. What is effective? If we are able to represent this interest decisively and wisely at the same time. The voters have decided that the centre-right force is suitable for this, neither the left nor the right-wing extreme. The other stake in this election was that we can also represent the European interest in the right way. Today, the European interest is to strengthen competitiveness, on the one hand, as we find that the American Asian economy is growing and that the European is not keeping up with it. But of course, building a healthy society is also our common goal in Europe. Let it be clear to everyone that, although we have debates with EU officials, it is important for us, Hungary, to have a strong Europe, as well as to tackle economic competitiveness and the particular social crisis that feeds on the general crisis of Western culture in Europe. Hungarian representatives must strengthen the efforts that come from healthy and not decadent thinking. The biggest result of yesterday's election is that these criteria have been recognised by the electorate. Of course, there was also an additional effect of this election, as I mentioned, on the reorganization of the opposition square. I don't want to exaggerate the significance of any person, but there is a successful man who has played a major role in this. He successfully destroyed his own party, and when he could, he successfully destroyed the country. Today, he and his friends and his delegates entered the European Parliament as MEPs. It is not his merit, but it is typical of the entire left that they are linked to the European left, to the left, which cannot be considered a good decision when they are not playing the traditional role of the left, so they have taken up the traditional role of supporting the small man or representing the break-down layers, but the representation of the big companies and the financial world. It is also worth talking about participation, because it is a cause for many people. At a time when we find that participation in Central Europe, Hungary, has been more significant than in other countries, we should note that the interest of society in the affairs of the Union is moderate. And while we are talking about the EU Parliament, let me express my hope that the colour that is disappearing from Parliament, I am thinking of a personality who cannot be regarded as Hungary's friend - the color is not given by the colour of the party, but by the personality - we hope that this will not be replaced by another colour that comes from Hungary, and that it will indeed be true that all Hungarian representatives will represent the interests of Hungary in the European Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.20]]
u2014-05-26-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I'd like to start with, like a lot of everyone else, thanking the civic community who came. Millions of people came and voted in the elections to the European Parliament, expressed their views, thus doing something that we trust is pointing towards the future. On the other hand, we obviously thank the 1 191 163 people, who voted for Fidesz-KDNP, with almost a record, for their support, for the second time this year, with the support of Fidesz-KDNP. In many ways, the European record is the result of yesterday's election, as the party in the People's Party could not achieve such a high percentage of victory. This is also the second largest victory in the history of the European Union within a country, the 51.5 percent achieved by Fidesz-KDNP. It should be pointed out, of course, that this is 6.5 percent greater than the result of the Fidesz-KDNP in the parliamentary elections about two months ago; and I think I did not look at it, but I think that this could be the biggest difference between the first and the second place, since in few European countries it can be imagined that while the first place received 51.5 percent, the second place was 14.7 percent. So there is so much difference between the first and the second place, between Fidesz-KDNP and all the other parties, which are record-sized; there is such a gap between Fidesz-KDNP's support and the support of other parties following it, which is almost unimaginable in other countries, and we do not find much of an example of such a high level, such as the support of one party, in this case Fidesz-KDNP, compared to the results of the other parties moving at about the same level, with a small difference in the way behind each other. In addition, the government has done this by saying that we are in a time of economic crisis, and that Fidesz-KDNP has received this overwhelming amount of support, and we have done so that the Fidesz-KDNP has been on the government for four years now, so this is also a recognition of a government result; not just a prosthetic mood due to a crisis, not just a dissatisfaction due to a crisis, but the strengthening of economic, social and political responses to the crisis on the part of citizens, and this confirmation has been given for the second time within two months, in a very high priority. This proves that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian voters believe that the crisis management of the Hungarian government is successful. This was also a message to Brussels, a message to all those who wanted to attack Hungary from Brussels. These voters voted for the second time in two months, giving Fidesz-KDNP confidence. I believe that this was the victory of the European centre here in Hungary, because we reject the extreme right-wing response which is leaving the European Union and which is trying to break it down, and the plan of the European United States, which would be more of a fiction than a reality foundation, is also a proposal of this kind, which is very much a national interest behind everything else. So we're happy that Fidesz-KDNP was able to win. Fidesz-KDNP 12 MEPs can be a kind of advance garrison for Hungary in the coming years. The fact that this community is very important within the European People's Party is clearly also able to win the European People's Party as an ally of Hungary for the next five years. We wrote on our posters and said during the campaign that we wish to ask the Hungarians respect, we wish Hungary respect. We would ask the European Union to address European issues and not internal policy issues. The parties should deal with internal policy issues at home, not in the corridors in Brussels, and not in Hungary. If the EU wishes to address EU issues, crisis situations in neighbouring countries or joint economic action, it is better off than dealing with acacia, dealing with brandy or dealing with the Elizabeth programme. The EU is better off looking for the latest methods of common economic crisis management than criticising and crossing the Hungarian bank tax, Hungarian special taxes, Hungarian rent reduction or Hungarian land protection measures. It is much more important that the Union itself is also in the interests of citizens, rather than being seen by European citizens as a kind of driver of the interests of the various multinational companies. This may be the reason why the participation in the elections in the European Union, although it was based on the Central European average in Hungary, has fallen from 62 percent to 43 percent since 1979. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-8	" No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here you go.
u2014-05-26-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It was interesting to listen to KDNP's chefing, but I would like to talk about a very prosaic subject, namely one of the biggest mistakes of the Orbán government that everyone knows about, but we know much less about the causes and the consequences of the Paks enlargement. Everyone in this country has the right and interest to know what is behind the Paks expansion, but now the government is not afraid of the most ridiculous justifications in order to preserve its unworthy secret. And here's the secret: on the one hand, we want to know why you're doing this, and the other secret is what we want to know the answer to, how you think you're going to do it. The May Other struggles with Politics on a daily basis, uses public interest data requests and has resorted to lawsuits to find out exactly how this case stands. Our goal is not to hide from the Hungarian people the facts that decisively influence our common future. We are here not to allow the unworthy attitude of government to continue, which deprives Hungarian people of their ability to decide, and, on the other hand, drives our country into a fatal addiction, making us the prey of Vladimir Putin, in particular. If the damage you are doing to this enlargement project could be ranked, this is the worst of them, the biggest. Dear Secretary of State, This is an enlargement that will result in this country, Hungary, shrinking. You're narrowing down our options. You're taking the money that we can use for worthwhile and meaningful things. For example, to create jobs, to use sustainable energy sources, but once again, the grossest mistake is to push us into dependence on Vladimir Putin. You know, Secretary of State, it's not really about who supports the use of nuclear energy or who doesn't. The May Other in this regard has a very strong saying, we hold to it. But what you're doing here doesn't really make sense. On the one hand, it is quite obvious that you do not have the documents on which this enlargement is based. If they did, they would have given them a long time ago. On the other hand, an international treaty is being pushed through the Hungarian Parliament by beating up Ferenc Gyurcsány's 2009 production in a faceless manner. On the other hand, lawsuits go on, and the most ridiculous justifications are now presented in the courts. In particular, we are saying that the Hungarian government does not know where the individual documents are, with them or anywhere else. Well, then, hire personnel to file records and try to clean up their own data. But the point is - and this is the most important - that Hungary's addiction to this project will be made slaves of Putin, but not just me and our generation, but also our children and grandchildren. Of course, some people are happy to applaud. Comrade Béla Kovács, working in Jobbik, has obviously no objection to the way things are going [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] And Jobbik must have been expected to dance with Putin. But here, the May Other in Politics, we serve Hungary, we serve the interests of Hungary, and we are in the interest of the nation. So I would like to have a direct answer as to whether or not the contract for the credit with enlargement will be brought before Parliament, and if it comes to Parliament, when it will come before Parliament. It is a scandal, Mr Secretary of State, that we have found the text of the treaty on Russian websites. You know, I'm the generation who didn't have to study Russian at school. I'm sorry to see that my daughters may already be in the generation to whom you'll be forced to study Russian again. [[Moore, interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz:]] On the other hand, you may now be so deeply in love with Comrade Vladimir Putin that you understand each other from your half words. But we, if possible, would like to stay out of this romance and ask for the translation. Please provide the authentic Hungarian translation and ask the Hungarian Government to do so. Dear Secretary of State, The Possibly Other Politics is determined to reduce our country's addiction. This is our primary goal. And with increasing concern, we note that you are collapsing with Putin Russia and the Russian influence is constantly rising in Hungary. What I expect from you, Mr Secretary of State, is that if you have already committed yourself to Putin, the plan of the Eurasian Empire, you will undertake and publish all the documents contained in this pact. [[13.30]] By the way, it is in the national interest to stop this enlargement here and now, but before they do so - if they are willing and able to recognise the current situation - tell me, Mr Secretary: will we see this loan agreement here in Parliament or not? Are we gonna vote on it or not? Do we get the authentic Hungarian translation here, we MEPs in opposition and all Hungarian people or not? I look forward to your answers with respect.
u2014-05-26-10	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-11	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to make your speech before the agenda, with a passion and, I must say, with the pitfalls of formal logic, an attempt to respond in the light of the seriousness of the matter. Today, Hungary supplies 43-44 percent of its total electricity from the nuclear energy of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. This is the case in a large part of the world. We are aware, and I think that all of my fellow Members here are aware of the fundamentally emotional debate that exists in the world between those who reject nuclear energy and those who use nuclear energy. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Credit agreement!]] It is very difficult to give a rational answer to irrational questions, if at all, but I think you do not dispute that nuclear energy has its advantages, it has its environmental benefits - virtually zero emissions - it has its storage and it has its economy, which is essential for Hungarian society. Today, Paks produces for less than HUF 12, when the next power plant, the coal power plant in Mátra - again, I suppose, in the next four years we will have the opportunity to continue with the use of the Hungarian coal fortune - produces for HUF 16-17, oil and gas plants for 24-26, and the alternative mandatory purchase price is above HUF 30. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are we voting on a loan agreement or not?]] The use of energy types is also included in the energy strategy adopted by the Hungarian Parliament in 2011, which includes gas in the energy mix, so conventional, nuclear, wind, and alternative energies. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are we voting or not voting?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the last year and a half, Hungarian retail consumers have experienced what a rational policy and a reduction in household costs means in people's everyday lives. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Are we voting or not voting?]] We have not yet made it a secret to call it that, for the sake of simplicity, we also want to extend the policy of reducing costs to the economy, and this is a fundamental condition and opportunity for Hungary to have cheap, reliable, predictable energy sources. Nuclear energy is definitely one of the fundamental elements of this today. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Wind energy.]] With wind energy, my dear Member, as with all other alternatives, the problem is that the background capacity behind it should be the same. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are we voting on the credit agreement or are we not voting?]] [[Dr. András Schiffer: Are we voting or not voting?]] We have not yet made it a secret to call it that, for the sake of simplicity, we also want to extend the policy of reducing costs to the economy, and this is a fundamental condition and opportunity for Hungary to have cheap, reliable, predictable energy sources. Nuclear energy is definitely one of the fundamental elements of this today. (Dr. Wind Bernadett: Wind energy. ) With wind energy, my dear Member, as with all other alternatives, the problem is that the background capacity behind it should be the same. (Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are we voting on the credit agreement or are we not voting?) We are aware that the expansion of alternative energy sources is an important element of the world's future. (Dr. András Schiffer: Are we voting or not voting?) Hungary is on the right track in this respect, Hungary is performing above the performance undertaken, and Hungary is introducing at a sufficient pace the alternative energies that are essentially related to the combination of local production and local use. The two, my dear Congresswoman, are not an alternative, but assume one another. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Credit agreement!]] That's one, I'm sorry, but sometimes it's a naive idea that alternative energy, even if it belongs to LMP's daily propaganda, will solve the big problems of Hungarian society or, as you say, the world's societies. He's not gonna fix it. These problems are predictable, predictable [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are we voting or not voting? Dr. András Schiffer: Credit agreement!]] , can be planned, technically - I know this is far from you, but technically - it can be resolved with sound measures. As regards the specific question: the Hungarian Gazette 2014/18. The 2014 II programme was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Act on the Convention on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation. Similarly to the Convention, we will present an interstate contract containing funding issues to the Parliament, so the Hungarian Parliament will have the opportunity to discuss and accept it in full. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-12	Mr Zoltán Balczó, on behalf of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda: "Learnings from the EP elections? " The title is given below. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-13	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The elections to the European Parliament in Hungary have a data that all responsible political forces must think about: until the number of voters in the European Union has been reduced for a long time, 20.5 percent and 600 thousand fewer people have participated in this election than we have in 2009. I am convinced that the reason for this is that we have failed to bring the elections to the European Parliament, the composition of the future Parliament, to influence their everyday lives. There were no meaningful debates in the media. Where to, Europe? We have heard that they have said that the great choice is that the People's Party will have greater support or the socialists. It is quite clear that in the most important questions of the European Union, these parties make the same decisions, and the fundamental question was - only here they have been silent - whether the so-called EU-sceptic parties are making progress, the parties that do not accept that the previous ten years will continue. Because the previous ten years have proved factually that the gap between the rich and poor countries has increased, if you like, between the centre and the periphery. And we could have talked about the question of protecting the soil. It is surprising to me, but it is a positive thing that, after the election shock of MSZP, for the first time in two years, the protection of land from foreigners arises; I am surprised that they want to protect it from the eastern oligarchs in the first place. They also have to - but what is Hungarian reality? For example, in the case of land owned by Austria, Megyeren, an American tenant with a German service provider wants to make it possible to dial in the wheat and rape of the current tenants, and instead what to do: to plant an energy notebook instead. This is the Hungarian reality. Of course, the eastern oligarchs have to be protected, they want to buy land here too. Instead of a programme debate, this election was about one thing: a coalition against Jobbik under international pressure to try to break it so that it could not be second in this election. The instrument of this was the scandal about Béla Kovács. They said that as it leaked, it was espionage against the EU institutions. The experts smashed this charge in seconds, it's impossible for a spy not to be exposed, but to hold a press conference, holding his passport, so it's completely discredited. And you're talking about treason in this case? Well, even if that accusation were true, is the EU institutions our country? Finally, they have come to the point that disintegration against the EU is his sin, and the European National Movements Alliance is the instrument for this. The movement that the European Parliament legally accepts and finances? Absolutely absurd accusations, and we're glad Jobbik hasn't been broken. Thank you to our voters who have stood by us and made it possible for Jobbik to become the second strongest political force in Hungary, which is more than symbolic, because the second force is generally considered to be the challenger of a government. Did we want to achieve better results? Yes, we would have liked to have, but for the previous reasons, some of our constituents were not excited by the elections to the European Parliament. [[13.40]] We repeated our 2009 results, while Fidesz' support for the 2009 EP election decreased by 4.9 percent. What we think is right in the European Parliament is that we will conduct our own debates here in this Parliament and not take it out. Krisztina Morvai set an example of this when discussing the Tavares report; yes, we did not agree on a number of issues, but the EP is not the scene to settle these debates there. By the way, on behalf of Jobbik, I wish for responsible work to be done by all the Members who are in Brussels, and I must say that, while they label us as extremists as national radical parties - ideologically, we are very far from them - but we would also cooperate with them on specific matters, because the Hungarian interest is of utmost importance to us. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-14	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2014-05-26-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You've started with the participation data, let me refer you back to them. You said that participation at European level has increased [[Zoltán Balczó: The same remains, I said!]] 0,09 percent, so it was about the same. But, as I said earlier, the 2004 figure is 2.5 percent higher than the current one; 1979 was still above 60 percent, then there were three elections between 50 and 60 percent, and since then there have been less than 50 percent participation in the EU. And we can also see that Central European countries clearly have lower participation data. There are many reasons for this, but we have often referred to double standards as Hungarians within the EU, and other countries are experiencing this as if they, the countries that joined the Union ten years ago, were being treated differently. This may be one of the reasons why these countries were less involved in the elections to the European Parliament: the Czech 19.5 percent, the Polish 22 percent, the Slovak 13 percent or even the recent Croatian 25 percent participation figures are all much lower than in the Western European countries, some of which, of course, have a high number because the elections are mandatory, and others may feel better about the equal treatment of the European institutions, while we often feel the double standard here. Perhaps if the Union changed this in its own internal organisation, these figures might be higher in the newly joined European countries in Central Europe. As far as Jobbik's results are concerned, to which the Member referred, Jobbik has fallen significantly compared to the parliamentary elections: at that time it was 20.7 percent, now 14.68 percent; this is a little less than five years ago when the European Parliament election took place with higher participation. So Jobbik fell much compared to the parliamentary elections, and slightly compared to the previous European Parliament elections, but it is even higher in terms of the number of voters who supported Jobbik on 6 April, since 339 000 of the more than one million voters who supported Jobbik remained. [[A statement from Jobbik: Let's talk about a million Fidesz!]] But after a very big difference, Jobbik received the second most votes. What surprises me is that, even after the elections, your future fellow Member, Béla Kovács, who has been referred to only as KáGébéla in recent weeks, is still being vehemently supported by you. I think it's going to be a huge burden for Jobbik that - you've just said national interests, you've forgotten one word - you've been representing Russian national interests in recent times. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] He is your fellow Member, and that has become quite clear. Getting to know more and more of his dark side [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] of the activity [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in which Jobbik helped, since you sent out someone with the votes of the Hungarian people who did not work there for the Hungarian people in Brussels. It was in the interest of someone else, but we used up a seat of representatives from our quota at the time. There is also one of our current 21 Members who seems to want to serve not the Hungarian interests, but the Russian or other foreign national interests. However, the Jobbik faction was a rather scandalous one, because if we look at what scandal politicians or events are connected to you, Csanád Szegedi's case - although it was a better domestic matter - was in front of our eyes, or Krisztina Morvai, who here, in connection with the aggressive action in front of the Parliament building, never said that he could not share with the spitters, but rather, in his words, relieved them of some moral responsibility. So what I see is that one of the politicians in the Jobbik EP Group, who will go out with you, has brought with them quite scandals, not in the national interest, but in such dubious echoes around you. However, we can welcome the fact that the four-member European Parliament group of the Tavares national team, the MSZP, has been removed from the European Parliament, although the outcome party of the MSZP has turned into a half party: two out of the four Members remain for them. [[Defiance.]] For the left, it could be clear that the voters did not ask for the alternative of the left, either together or separately, because there was a huge difference, the Fidesz-KDNP was huge two months ago and it was huge now. So the support and acceptance of the left does not depend on the fact that they start together, start united in the elections, or scale themselves separately, because the superiority of the Fidesz-KDNP was clear in the election either way, but in this election they cannot blame the electoral system for being so far behind the Fidesz-KDNP. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-16	Today's last speech before the agenda will be held, Mr Antal Rogán, on behalf of Fidesz, on "Our Common Things. " Here you go.
u2014-05-26-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The citizens of Hungary gave their opinion again seven weeks after the parliamentary elections yesterday. At the elections to the European Parliament on 25 May, the citizens of Hungary said no at the same time and said yes at the same time. They said no to extremes, extreme political manifestations and style, and they said yes to the united and decisive representation of Hungarian national interests. Ladies and gentlemen, This opinion is important to all of us and I think it is an obligation to all of us. Let us not forget that the citizens of Hungary actually said no yesterday. They said no to the extremes that declared the surrender of Hungarian national interests and advocated united states in Europe instead of independent and independent Hungary. They said no to this extreme, as less than 10 percent of Hungarians thought that this could be the way for them. They also said no to another extreme, the extreme idea that is playing with Hungary's exit from the European Union, which thus threatens Hungarian jobs, the interests of Hungarian families, the development resources for Hungary. And they said no to the extreme political style coupled with this, and unfortunately, at the inaugural meeting of the Hungarian Parliament, at the beginning of this month, we have seen it before the House several times. I think that for those to whom the Hungarian voters wanted to send a message, it must be thought-provoking, but the most important message of the Hungarian electorate is why Fidesz-KDNP received more votes in proportion than in the last parliamentary election. The Hungarian voters said that the red-white-green is the first for them. They clearly told us that Hungary's political power outside Hungary is expected to represent Hungarian interests in a uniform way, regardless of party political affiliation. This is the most important message that can be deducted from yesterday's European Parliament election. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is what we are obliged to do in the first place. It is also symbolic that, for the first time in this Chamber, where we are sitting, there is a situation where all MEPs have their place of name. Therefore, I think that it should be quite clear to them, too, that it is their work from here that takes precedence. In this House, we jointly decide which interests are the most important interests of Hungary, which we must stand together and unitedly outside Hungary's borders, with internal political debates aside. I think that there is a moment here, honourable Members, when we can put aside the debates in this regard in the past, and I would like to ask all of you to convince MEPs in their own colours that the internal political debates should not be brought to Brussels and that Hungarian interests should be represented in a uniform manner. Learn that the Hungarian voters punished me because they could not accept the adoption of the Tavares report because they thought it meant giving up Hungary's interests [[György Balla: That's right.]] ; that Hungarian voters have been punished because they believe that the presentation of an extreme political style in the European Parliament is contrary to the interests of Hungary, and even equivalent to the expiry of Hungary. [[13.50]] Hungarian citizens want us to defend Hungarian interests in Brussels in a uniform way, so that regardless of which party of the 21 MEPs has been delegated, all of us should stand united in favour of the reduction of the rent, because it is important for Hungarian families. They're asking us not to question that. They are asking us to vote in favour of Hungary, and we are united in representing Hungary's interests in the European Parliament. They expect us to protect the Hungarian land together, and if there is a need for fair public burden for the Hungarian budget, for the benefit of Hungarian families, then instead of multinational interests, let us stand united in favour of fair public burden, the interests of Hungarian families and the interests of Hungarian interests in the European Parliament. This is what the Hungarian voters sent yesterday. I think today is the moment when we can say that those who have not done this can break up with this practice. We will continue to do the same. At all times, we will represent only the interests of Hungary, and we will always do that, otherwise, we will not bring any internal political debate outside Europe or into the European Parliament. I'm asking you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I want you to consider that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-18	I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-19	Mr President, Dear House, The Member has highlighted three questions, and I must say on all three issues that I think it is important that there is agreement. In fact, at the end of the last week, Hungarian citizens decided that there was a need for clear, clear Hungarian representation in Brussels. The majority of Hungarian voters who have proved themselves to be in favour of Hungarian interests have given rise to overwhelming success and political strength. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Member also stressed that the entire Carpathian Basin would become a strong Hungarian representation in Brussels. Indeed, it is very important that not only will there be 21 representatives, but there will be 25 Hungarian representatives in Brussels with two representatives from the Highlands and Transylvania, and not only these four representatives from the Highlands and Transylvania, but also the three representatives from beyond the Fidesz national list. For the first time, a person representing the VMSZ will be on this list as a delegate of a party with strong parliamentary and political legitimacy. Similarly, a Member of Transcarpathia will now have a very strong legitimacy, and if we add the name of Bishop László Tőkés, I must say that seven of them will report a small Hungarian faction abroad in the European Parliament, who can help in the work that the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, in particular in recent years, have shown extremely effectively in the European Parliament for the sake of Hungarian minority policy, Hungarian national policy. Thirdly, at the end of the week elections were not only held in Hungary. Note that in Hungary, and there was already a reference to this, participation was lower this time than it was four years ago, but Hungary was particularly good in the Central European comparison. Well, the very important result of the elections to the European Parliament is that, in the end, the European People's Party was able to win. Our result, our contribution to the success of the European People's Party, is decisive, as the European People's Party precedes the European Left with 17 different seats. In this respect, the mandates of the rather well-represented Hungarian and Carpathian basin right are, I must say, decisive. If this is not the result of what was born in the Carpathian Basin, the European People's Party is not the determining force of the European Parliament, but the European Left. Without us, the success of the European People's Party could not have been achieved, so let us be aware of this in every way within ourselves. In this respect, Hungary has put great emphasis on the need to think and build the future together with this party family. We also have a lot to say to the European People's Party in recent years. Hungary should be grateful for the fact that the European People's Party has stood up for Hungary in a wide range of debates and rejected the type of double standards reflected, for example, by the Tavares report and its Hungarian supporters. So overall, we have reason to rejoice as Hungarians, as Hungarians, as Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, and as a member of the European right, the Christian Democratic Party family in Europe. So in these three aspects too, I think that everyone who has done so, and in particular Hungarian voters, should be honoured. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Kiss, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik and Márta Demeter, MSZP. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of the immunity of independent Parliamentary Congresswoman Szabó Timea from the Pest Central District Court in a private case. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. The agenda for today's meeting is now being set. On the agenda, for the duration of the meeting, on the speaking time limits, the House Committee presented its proposal. First, we will decide on any amendments to the agenda. Member Antal Rogán, on behalf of the authors, has initiated the adoption of Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules. ANNEX II H/132 amending the parliamentary decision of 24 months Parliament will discuss Parliament's proposal for a parliamentary decision in an urgent procedure at this meeting. I respectfully invite Mr János Pócs to present the emergency proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2014-05-26-21	Dear Parliament, The rapporteur proposed that the general debate of the bill be held until the closure of the meeting today, that the committees may meet today during the session of the National Assembly, that the amendment be submitted until the general debate is concluded today, that the detailed discussion should open with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill, that, in order to have a detailed discussion, the negotiating committee may meet before the opening of the Parliament meeting and during the meeting, that the Legislative Committee may evaluate the amendments closing the detailed debate after receiving the information from the national Parliament, but before the time limit for the house rules.
u2014-05-26-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Following the initiative of the urgent negotiation, the Fidesz Group proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of this proposal for a decision so that the general debate would take place as the first item on the agenda after the decisions have been concluded. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, is H/132. A proposal for a decision, including the date of the general debate. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] [[14.00]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament... [[It's grumpy. The ballot counting machine isn't working.]] Since he didn't show up... - just showed up. Then please vote with two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has taken the submission 128 yes, 51 votes not, without abstention, to an urgent hearing. Dear Parliament, Mr János Lázár, as rapporteur, initiated the T/135. on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the Law on the Listing of Ministries of Hungary. The Parliament will discuss bill No.1 in an urgent procedure at this meeting. The urgency proposal is literally the same as the initiative submitted to the previous motion. Following the initiative of the urgent negotiation, the Fidesz Group proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of the proposal so that the general debate would take place as a second item after the decisions have been concluded. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, is T/135. Bill No.1, together with the date of the general debate. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has taken the submission to an urgent hearing with 128 yes, 50 non-voting votes and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the House Committee recommendation with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. Against him, were you? It doesn't matter. [[Defiance.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Based on the previous agreement of the political groups, there will be no interaction, immediate questions and questions until the government is established. We now move on to the first item on the agenda and to the decision. Dear Parliament, In order to allow all our fellow Members who are leaving the Chamber now because of their urgent duties, to do so without delay, we will take a minute of a technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. We're back in session. The Commission's reports on the list of the ministries of Hungary and the summary amendment will be discussed. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's own motion T/106. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The report of the Judicial Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion is T/106/6. I've already given it to you. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/106/8. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate, T/106/9. Available on the website. First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion expressed by the minority will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available to ensure 7 minutes of this time to present the minority opinion. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, rapporteur of the committee, within a maximum of eight minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-23	Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee discussed T/106. Bill No.1, which is the law on the list of ministries and, as such, the basic document for the establishment of the government. The Committee received an amendment, an amendment tabled by the Committee on Justice, which accepted the amendment tabled by Mr Szijjártó, and accordingly was transferred to the Legislative Committee as an amendment by the Committee on Justice. This amendment was a technical amendment proposal, which corrected a reference in the legislation, so that this amendment was included in this summarised amendment, which was thus put before the Parliament. In the committee there was a debate and consultation on whether the legal solution is right, whether the law itself and the related regulation, the Statute Regulation, will enter into force on one day. Finally, on the part of the Government, Mr Répássy, State Secretary, assured him that this is a technically feasible procedure, and therefore there will be no problem in the future, which can be achieved in a specific timetable. On this basis, the committee discussed the bill and proposed to the Parliament for adoption by 22 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-05-26-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion is presented by Mr Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, briefly, a series of events took place that my fellow Member, Mr Tuzson Bence, has just outlined. I would like to say a little bit more about the arguments made in connection with the amendment proposal at the committee's meeting. It was mentioned by opposition representatives, precisely on the amendment proposal, that the powers and responsibilities of ministers are not apparent from the regulation, and this is highlighted by the truly technical amendment that my fellow Member spoke about. They noted that, until the change of regime, the practice in Parliament was practically without precedent that the list of ministries was not only listed in the law, but at least the main powers of individual ministers, but this is not included in this law. It also occurred to me at the committee meeting, if I remember correctly, that my fellow Member Schiffer said that, in his view, the proposal was against the law for this very reason. For our part, we have not shared this with other opposition representatives, because the Fundamental Law does provide only for a list, but it should be mentioned once again that 24 years of practice shows that, in this respect, the Fundamental Law has not changed compared to the previous constitution that it contains a list of ministries. Of course, it is possible to approach this further, I think that my fellow Member Schiffer has responded to this as to whether it actually detracts from the powers of Members, if they cannot discuss between the walls of Parliament what functions the law assigns to certain ministries. [[14.10]] Indeed, the issue of the right of Members to speak is already mentioned here, but I do not wish to discuss this for a longer time because this was not mentioned at this level at the committee meeting. However, it should be mentioned, and this has been suggested by several Members, that they intend to establish these powers in the form of regulations, which is in practice, and that so much should allow me to add the half sentence that they have said at the committee meeting, but it has not been mentioned in this round that they intend to make Parliament increasingly insignificant, as has been the practice of the last four years. This is also the case, and the Parliament will not be able to discuss these powers, as the new government will determine this in a regulation. However, two problems were raised specifically in this regard at the committee meeting. One is how we can express an opinion on such a proposal if we do not know who is actually going to do what. We do not know, for example, that the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office - he is not, according to new plans, the Minister of State, but will do so - whether he will take full political control, and that the ministries will be almost executors of the political will expressed there - something similar over the past four years, not for the benefit of professionalism - or that will not be the case. The other, which was a problem around the way it was adopted, and perhaps that is what the Secretary of State said most of all, myself. It would appear that this law would enter into force on 6 June, and that the regulation which will define their responsibilities would also enter into force on 6 June. It's, as it were, physically possible in only two ways. One is that this law will enter into force at midnight on 6 June, on the basis of which the President of the Republic appoints certain ministers, in a way he did not know, to some kind of powers. These ministers will meet, and there they will discuss, discuss and adopt a regulation that will clarify the powers. The other option, on the other hand, seems to be that these ministers will, obviously, after the appointment, even if they meet formally, not discuss this structure there, but, if they so wish, formally approve the regulation put before them. This is my problem, and we have faced this many times, based on the parliamentary practice of the last four years, and I have also said this at the committee meeting, which is why I am putting it on the table here, that, in fact, it was possible to refer to law-promoters who had nothing to do with the proposal, but have their names written on a finished draft text. This is what we are going to face, and this exercise is what I think is condemnable, and it would be good if the new Parliament did not operate on the same principles. Because, in fact, honourable Members, it is obviously a matter of drafting this regulation on the basis of the political deal they have just concluded, the Prime Minister's will, and this prepared draft text will be placed on the table of new ministers, on the table of the government meeting, where it will be confirmed in practice by a formal vote. Obviously, not on the 6th, after their appointment, these debates and discussions will be held, and then the prepared draft text, the draft legislation or regulation, and the vote on it will be prepared in advance. My fellow Members and I have suggested that it is unfortunate that the new government will start operating as a strom. That's probably the way it is now, because there's no time for anything else. All I ask now is what I have asked of my fellow Members there, so that this practice is not at least general in this term. If the Speaker said that there would be a different approach, a different structure, and legislation at a different pace, then it would be good if the first legislative proposals did not deny it. That was about what was said at the Legislative Committee, and this was what the opposition representatives expressed as criticism, and this was among other things, in addition to what my fellow Members said in the general debate, which is why we will not support this proposal, despite the fact that, of course, all opposition parties acknowledge that the establishment of a governance structure is the possibility and responsibility of the government at hand. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-05-26-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the rules of the house now give us the opportunity for one of the authors to speak. However, I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, if the authors make use of this possibility, they have a maximum period of 10 minutes for this speech and the closing. So in this spirit, I would like to ask the representatives of the authors whether anyone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask if anyone from the managing government wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yes, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Secretary of State. The House Rules give the Secretary of State the opportunity to speak within a 10-minute timeframe.
u2014-05-26-27	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to inform the President that, in the general debate, I have already indicated that the Government is in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The Judicial Committee has indicated that it does not wish to present a rapporteur. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which will be presented shortly. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of two-minute comments during this debate. The time frame is divided into the following: Fidesz 17 minutes, KDNP 8 minutes, MSZP 10 minutes, Jobbik 8 minutes, LMP 5 minutes and independent people 2 minutes. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, who made a preliminary statement in writing about his intention to speak. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-05-26-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I would like to relate to what you have already said when presenting the minority opinion, my colleague Gergely Bárándy, and, of course, I would also like to confirm that, in general, the majority at hand has autonomy in and must respect the right to establish a ministerial, governmental structure in accordance with their own intentions. At the same time, because, unlike custom, we will not support this bill, the reason why, as my fellow Member Barándy pointed out, we did not necessarily agree with this in the Legislative Committee, is that, in our view, this bill is quite simply unconstitutional. The majority has the right to establish a law on the list of ministries, on the structure of the government, which is appropriate for the future Prime Minister, but does not have the right to bring in an anti-law law. Why do I continue to claim that this law is against the law, and why would it be good for the Legislative Committee itself to comment on it? The relevant article of the Fundamental Law, as I recall, Article 17 (1), as my fellow Member Bárándy referred to, states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. However, paragraph 2 of the same article states that ministers without a wallet may be appointed, whose powers are defined by the Government in a regulation. From this logically, the powers of non-wallet-free ministers with wallets should be governed by law. This particular law that we have before us is about naming ministries. There is no question of jurisdiction in the law, but at the same time the bill before us speaks of the fact that the detailed rules will be laid down by a government decree. I keep asking: what about the set between the names of the ministries and the detailed rules? In Hungarian: what legislation will provide for the basic powers of the ministries? These are names, detailed rules will be provided for by a government decree, but the basic powers of the ministries, which of the most important administrative areas are supervised, should be provided for by law. This is essential for good governance and for legal certainty to apply in everyday administrative practice. This guarantee is not in this listing law. [[14.20]] At least in 2010, with the entry into force rules, Parliament made clear which ministry the various administrative sectors would belong to. We live with the suspicion that this is not the case by accident, and it is not by accident that Viktor Orbán also takes on the anti-law, because if he leaves in the air what the powers of the ministries look like, at any time, according to the current, if applicable, winds within the government, Fidesen, according to lobbying interests and oligarchic interests, certain powers of the ministry can be guided. However, if we want legal certainty, if we do not want to leave citizens in administrative uncertainty, then here and now the powers of ministries must be laid down in law and comply with Article 17 of the Fundamental Law. I have indicated this, and I would have asked for the support of the Legislative Committee, because as much as we recognise the right and responsibility of the future Prime Minister in the design of the governance structure, the basic rules of law must be complied with, the requirements of legal certainty. Of course, we could have put forward a lot of other amendments. We did not do this precisely because we respect the right and responsibility of our future Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, our fellow Member, to freely define the future governance structure, even though we would have had plenty of ideas. Even that a Ministry of Sustainable Development should not only deal with environmental policy, but also with energy policy in unity, and we would have had a proposal to amend that if the Fidesz government had broken off with rural development policy, with the approach that Professor József Ángyán represented in 2010, it would have been more appropriate to name the new agricultural wallet rather than the agricultural name if it had been called the Ministry of Land Robbery. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-30	Thank you very much. I ask my fellow Members whether anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. First, I would like to address Mr Nándor Gúr of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I do not wish to go into repetitions, so that is why I am not telling you everything that Mr Schiffer has said, but I would like to add two things to what he has said. Obviously, it is not possible to argue that the current government's license, opportunity, and task is to formulate a list of ministries, their responsibilities and other matters, but in this draft law it practically extends beyond this, in Hungarian: it makes a salad out of it, because if you look at this draft law, you can also see that this includes, for example, solving issues concerning the protection of the labour rights of permanent foreign servants or government officials posted there. That doesn't really fit the draft law on the list of ministries, at least I think it does. You know, it's like what they've done in the past, when, under salad laws, they brought in a lot of things at the last minute that they didn't want to do openly. And obviously the public, the viewer, never faced this story because they did all this during the night. I believe that unforgivable crimes have been committed in this way, for example, in connection with the Labour Code, where you have called the transformation of this law more flexible, and have actually made it more vulnerable not only to workers, even to employers in a sense, although they have always given them a chance more than to workers to pull another skin off of them. They made, in a manner of speaking, rubber legislation at the time. I'm telling you, now, within the framework of this law, within the framework of the Ministries Listing Act, they do this in respect of the labour rights protection of permanent foreign workers and government officials posted there. They want to make them easier, cheaper to discharge. In practice, the employer may unilaterally modify the appointment of the employee, the civil servant, who, of course, if he does not wish to accept the opportunity offered by the employer, because, in a quotation mark, it may be humiliating, many other things that are far below his qualifications, then he will have to face the fact that issues relating to the termination of the normal relationship between government officials will not be resolved, i.e. not with acquittal, but with resignation. This is not about the difference between two words, it is about the content behind the two words. One is that if there is an exemption, there will be a salary for the discharge period.
u2014-05-26-32	I apologize, Congressman. I interrupt because the debate takes place in a time frame [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, I know.]] and I have the feeling that you are putting your speech on the next item, because at the moment it is in the law on the list of ministries. [[Nándor Gúr: I am aware of that.]] And since there were more people from the MSZP, I didn't want you to miss out.
u2014-05-26-33	Yes, Mr. President, I am fully aware of that. That's what I'm telling you, these numbers are unacceptable.
u2014-05-26-34	The only problem, Mr President - and I will not take away your time - is that in this case I must withdraw from you in accordance with the new regulations - because there is no way to deviate from the main line in the general debate now either - and I would not want to do so, so I would ask the Member to continue in this spirit.
u2014-05-26-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll leave it at your discretion.
u2014-05-26-36	Time to count, please.
u2014-05-26-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll leave it at your discretion. If you feel the need to withdraw, then do it, and I'll tell you what I think, because everything I'm talking about is bound to this law. But if you think you should do it, Mr. President, you have your license. Thus, the difference between the waiver and the waiver in this respect is that in one case, the allowance is due for the discharge period, in the other case it is not. If there is a resignation, there is no severance pay. One also loses the possibility of judicial redress, and I can tell you a lot more, but I do not mention that I should not press on Mr President's patience, although to this law, T/106. Everything I'm talking about matches the law. One word, as a hundred, I would therefore like to say that it is unacceptable for me to have a completely different set of rules implemented within the framework of a given law, which I have to argue with the President here, whether I can talk about it or not. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2014-05-26-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Two others from the MSZP Group have applied for a speech. The next speaker was Mr László Kiss. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, As we have already said in the general debate, bad administrative practice is what the Fidesz government has been doing in the last few months. However, this poor administrative practice was also common in previous years. We don't think it's necessary to continue. Of course, it is clear and clear to everyone that it is not the opposition that makes up a government, but if everyone in this House obviously thinks seriously that good proposals may have room, if everyone thinks seriously that the government is listening to everyone, regardless of where their proposals come from, then I think it is the opposition's duty to engage in dialogue. In the spirit of dialogue, the Socialist Group proposed in the general debate that the government should hear the voice of the Hungarian people, hear that the cause of work and the issue of education should have a prominent role in the ministerial structure. Looks like you didn't make it. The Socialist Group also suggested at the Commission stage that the kind of tangled practice that is about the lack of transparency of legislation is about the fact that the ministerial structure is not adapted to life, it is not suitable to lead the country. Regardless of whether it is possible to win a choice, public administration cannot be run effectively with this thing. It shows this well when we look at the first excellent test of the excellent Hungarian administration, the Hungarian Ministry structure, the amendment that the House received for the ministerial structure, where it was practically possible for the author to ruin the paragraph of the relevant legislation in connection with a few paragraphs of the law. That's more than ridiculous. We believe that this system, which has been done so far, is likely to continue, and I believe that it is in no one's interest, nor in your interest, this House, honourable government. Hungarian people do not see how laws are born in this system, and this needs to be changed. There is also a need to change the fact that no important matter which is the country's top priority - security as a priority for rural people, work or education representing the high priority for urban people and the priority for rural people - is not reflected in this structure. The previous time as a historian, I also spoke a little bit about what the Ministry structure looked like earlier, a few hundred years ago or 100-150 years ago. Think back, ladies and gentlemen, to the 1848 Ministry, how you stood up. Let's just remember what ministries we were talking about. [[14.30]] Let's see if we're in line with this historical tradition right now. I think everyone knows we're not up to it, because either the Ministry of Public Works or the Ministry of Public Education are sorely absent. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-05-26-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now speaking to Mr Gergely Bárándy, who said that I had the floor for about a minute during the speech by Mr Nándor Gúr, so that these two minutes will be changed to three minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-41	Thank you very much, Mr President, also for fairness. I'm not even gonna live with that in terms of time frame, which, according to the display, is officially behind. I would like to ask only one of my fellow pro-government Members, but most of all the Secretary of State, who is now taking part in the debate. In view of the fact that the regulation, as I said in my previous speech, will not be able to argue with Parliament, given that you obviously already know what structure you want to build, what functions you want to assign, please, Mr State Secretary, or any other of the authors, to inform us, Members, and to inform the Parliament what this structure would be. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that much has been read in the press. However, I find it a little grotesque that the press knows more about the planned structure of the next period than you officially say in Parliament. I therefore ask you that, if you no longer present a proposal for amendment - I note that the new house rules are a narrow, but give you an opportunity - to remedy this deficiency, at least in plenary, in Parliament, you will discover what you are planning to do. Then they'll make the order. But please allow the opposition to debate the planned structure. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask if the rapporteur wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any sign here. Dear Parliament, In line with the agreed agenda, the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place after the discussion of immunity cases. Now, since we can't go any further, I'm ordering a break until 3:30 p.m. to take decisions at 3:30 p.m. Therefore, I would ask the faction leaders to secure the quorum at 15.30. Thank you very much. (Sunning: 14.33 - 15.34 President: Dr. János Latorcai Tickets: Dezső and János Pócs gullible)
u2014-05-26-43	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask all of you to take your seats. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the devices, because at the moment the computer shows much less than the number of people seated in the visual inspection room. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I declare that Congressman György Bajnai Gordon has informed the President of the Parliament that he has resigned his mandate today. With this, the number of Members of Parliament has changed to 198. Now we have decisions to make. I ask the faction leaders to ensure the necessary quorum. We're conducting a presence check. Please check if your card has been properly placed in the voting machine, if you have any feedback, and now press one of the buttons on your device. [[It's happening.]] I find 156 Members present, 43 are currently absent. Parliament has a quorum. I'm asking you if anyone's experienced an abnormality in the operation of your computer. [[For signal:]] Yeah, let's go. Anything else? [[There's no candidate.]] Thank you very much. It's time for the immunity hearing. The immunity committee is H/109. Mr Józsa, Parliamentary Member of Parliament, asked that the Parliament not suspend the immunity of the case concerned by the request of the Central District Court of Pest. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2014-05-26-44	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Pest Central District Court is the 9th B. 32737/2013/3. István Józsa, Member of Parliament, applied for the suspension of his immunity for the offence of defamation. According to the report, Dr. István Józsa held a press conference at the headquarters of the Hungarian Socialist Party on 18 July 2013, and then at the ATV Straight Speech programme, Közgép Zrt. capable of damaging his honour [[Moraj, there's information in the lines of LMP and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] , presented false statements of fact. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 12 May 2014. Dr. István Józsa said at the meeting that he had received complaints from voters, and he expressed his voice. In the absence of powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act. The immunity committee's unbroken practice of maintaining immunity in private cases seeks to ensure the purpose of immunity, the smooth working of Parliament and Members. In view of the above, the Committee proposed to Parliament three yeses, two votes against, that Dr. István Józsa not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2014-05-26-45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform the House that Congressman István Józsa does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, and so now it is time to take a decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the immunity of Congressman István Józsa. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of István Józsa, MP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of István Józsa with 20 votes in favour, 147 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is H/110. Mr János Pócs proposed that the Parliament not suspend the immunity of Mr János Pócs on the matter concerned by the request of the Jászberény District Court. I give the floor to Mr János Kerényi, who wishes to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Jászberény District Court subpoenaed the suspension of the immunity of János Pócs as a Member of Parliament for defamation, based on Attila Vajda's complaint. According to the complaint, János Pócs, mayor of Jászapáti, made a defamatory statement on 13 December 2013 when he said: " He was sentenced to prison in Baumag case for no rights. " The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 12 May 2014. The immunity committee, adapted to traditions, does not intend to suspend immunity in the case of a private charge or in old practice in private prosecution cases. For this reason, he proposes to Parliament that János Pócs, MP, should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. The resolution proposal was made by 4 yeses and 2 non-voting votes by the immunity committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.40]]
u2014-05-26-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Pócs does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, so the decision follows. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Mr János Pócs is suspending his immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mr János Pócs by 25 votes in favour, 146 votes against, with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is H-111. In his proposal No.3 he proposed that the parliamentary congressman Mr.Tamás Harangozó should not suspend his immunity in the matter concerned by the request of the Baja District Court. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Kulcsár, who justifies the committee's position in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee discussed the immunity of Dr. Tamás Harangozó Member of Parliament at its meeting on 12 May 2014. It has happened that the Baja District Court has proposed the suspension of the immunity of Dr. Tamás Harangozó, Member of Parliament, on the basis of the complaint of Ferenc Lakatos. According to the complaint, Dr. Tamás Harangozó named the informer and called him a fraud at a press conference on ATV's news programme, after the election of local representatives in Baja on 22 September 2013. It was agreed among the members of the Committee that the immunity committee would not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act in the absence of competence. There was no agreement among the members of the committee whether or not to suspend his immunity to the Member. One of the positions, which later received a majority, referred to the practice of upholding immunity in private cases, thus ensuring the undisturbed work of the Member, so the MSZP and Fidesz MEPs declared that the Parliament should not suspend Tamás Harangozó's immunity. The second position supported by the better Members was that the National Assembly should suspend the immunity of Tamás Harangozó, because the Members of Parliament, just as any other citizen, should stand before the judiciary and the courts should decide whether they are guilty or innocent. Finally, the immunity committee proposed to Parliament four yeses, two votes against, that Dr. Tamás Harangozó may not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Tamás Harangozó does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, and therefore the decision is to be taken. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that Congressman Tamás Harangozó's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. That is why I am asking you to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Tamás Harangozó. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament has not suspended the immunity of Mr Tamás Harangozó with 25 votes in favour, 149 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is the H/127. In its proposal No.2 the Parliament shall not suspend the immunity of MP Miklós Simon in the case concerned by the request of the District Court of Miskolc. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the chairman of the committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2014-05-26-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Miskolc District Court 8B. 336/2014.2. Dr. Miklós Simon, Member of Parliament, filed a motion to suspend his immunity for defamation, based on the complaint of Dr. László Helmeczy. According to the complaint, at the constituencies meeting on 6 November 2013 in Nyírbogat, Dr. Miklós Simon presented a leaflet on the reporter in which he accused him of committing serious crimes. In addition, a copy of the flyer was attached to the article on kuruc.info about the person who reported it, as well as the article published on the foc24-barikad.hu website. This was supposedly distributed to over a hundred people on behalf of Dr. Miklós Simon and his wife. Other persons were previously convicted of the distribution of the two articles. Dr. Miklós Simon was unable to appear at the committee meeting on immunity, but he informed the committee president in writing about this, and also his position that the slanders written in the complaint were without any basis. The immunity committee also applied immunity in private cases in the present case. On this basis, it examined the investigation carried out by the Committee on Patents of the previous cycle and the proposal submitted on 27 March 2014. On 12 and 19 March 2014, the immunity committee adopted the terms and conditions, and decided by 4 yes, 2 votes against, to propose to the Parliament that Dr. Miklós Simon should not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr Miklós Simon does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, and therefore the decision is to be taken. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the MP's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. So I'm asking you to suspend the immunity of MP Miklós Simon. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend Mr Simon Miklós' immunity by 23 votes in favour, 151 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, The immunity committee is the H/128. In his proposal No.2 he proposed that in the case at the request of the Central District Court of Buda the parliamentary representative of Gyula Budai should not suspend his immunity. I now give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2014-05-26-52	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Court of Justice of the Central District of Buda 14B. 1875/2013/7-1. By ordering under number 2, Dr. Gyula Budai, Member of Parliament, applied for the suspension of his immunity for the offence of defamation on the basis of the complaint made by Ferenc Péterfia. [[15.50]] According to the complaint, Dr. Gyula Budai, as a government commissioner for accountability and anti-corruption in November 2011, filed a false complaint against the indictee against the BRFK, and then transferred it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in which he linked him as a former employee of the Hungarian Embassy in Vienna to the felony related to the renovation of the Embassy's service apartments and the damage of HUF 40 million. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 19 May 2014. Dr. Gyula Budai was unable to attend the meeting because of his official duties, but he asked in writing that the immunity committee present a proposal for a decision to uphold his immunity in his case. The immunity committee has examined the case, and on the basis of the unbroken practice, it proposes to the Honourable Parliament, by 4 votes in favour and 2 against, that the immunity of Gyula Budai may not be suspended in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-05-26-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that Congressman Gyula Budai does not wish to make use of the opportunity to speak, and therefore the decision is to be taken. I would remind you that the committee took a position that Congressman Gyula Budai's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I'm asking you to suspend the immunity of Congressman Gyula Budai. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Congressman Gyula Budai by 28 votes in favour, 147 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The final vote and the decision to amend the draft law on the list of the ministries of Hungary will follow. Viktor Orbán, our Fidesz fellow Member, and other Members' own motion T/106. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/106/8. and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate is T/106/9. Also available on the website. The Chairman of the Legislative Committee presented the single proposal, which was proposed by T/106/10. You can already get to know me on the website. According to the agreed agenda, a decision is now being taken on the summary amendment proposal and then the final vote. The authors indicated that they did not wish to make use of the closing option and that the Government's position had already been expressed in the debate. The adoption of the legislative committee's summary amendment proposal requires a simple majority, so that we can decide on this with one vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 26 against and 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the bill is accepted by T/106/10. As per the text of the single proposal No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 119 votes in favour, 56 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The Speaker of Parliament is H/136. 13/2014 on the establishment, election of officials and members of the Parliament. to amend the parliamentary decision. In this he initiates that the Parliament elects Ms Ágnes Vadai to the Defence and Police Committee, and Gábor Fodor to the Legislative Committee, as a member of the committee. The Speaker proposes that the committee representing nationalities should be called "the committee of nationalities in Hungary, " and that the chairman of the committee should be elected by János Fuzik, and Félix Farkas as vice-president by the Parliament. According to the proposal for a decision, the term of office of the Committee begins at the date of entry into force of this Decision and therefore begins with its adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/136 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 177 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to wish the elected Commission officials and members effective work, good luck, and to congratulate the President. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. We now have a two-minute technical break in order to continue the debates. [[It's a short break.]] [[The notary seats are occupied by Attila Móring József and Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Attila Móring and Ms Erzsébet Schmuck are the current notaries. I thank you for your work and give the Presidency to Vice-President István Jakab. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] [[16.00]]
u2014-05-26-54	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. general discussion of the proposal for a parliamentary decision amending the parliamentary decision until closure. Antal Rogán, Dr. Judit Bertalan, László Vigh, Zoltán Demeter, Ferenc Papcsák, György Balla, Fidesz, MPs' own motion H/132. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. I would remind you that, before the agenda was adopted, the Parliament decided to enter into an urgent hearing. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Balla György, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably not take 30 minutes, probably three minutes of your time, because we have a proposal that basically contains, in my opinion, technical proposals supported by everyone. Therefore, if I may not comment on the detailed justification of the technical proposals, it would literally agree with what you have received with the bill, and I have not been given much information that anyone has a grudge against it, because these proposals are precise in nature, they do not fundamentally change the functioning of the House, but they do help us to avoid any points of order that may arise later. However, there are two proposals where I sincerely admit that I expect opposition criticism, which is why I would like to talk briefly about these two proposals. One of the amendments changes the number of votes required to derogate from the house rules compared to the current house rules. This change is not so large, as it does nothing but return to the ratio that has been applied for more than twenty years, in Hungarian to four fifths of the Members present, instead of four fifths of all Members. I think it is obvious to all of us that, if all Members are present in this Chamber, this amendment does not mean anything at all in the world, just as it is necessary to support all factions or a large majority of the factions in order to create a derogation from the house rule. At the same time, which, in my opinion, is important to go back to the previous ratio, because there can indeed be moments in the life of Parliament where a number of Members are reasonably absent, and yet it is important to make a decision supported by all of us, which we are not going to do because we are not bound to four-fifths of the Members present, but to four-fifths of all Members from house rules, for example in the event of a flood. Obviously, the Members affected by the flood are right to be in their constituency, and the flooding can bring precisely situations where ad hoc, quick decisions must be taken by way of house rules. But I would like to stress that nothing else is going to happen but that we are going back to the same rule, which has already regulated the functioning of Parliament. The other issue is the issue of the Speaker, where I expect opposition criticism, but I expect careful opposition criticism. In many of Europe's parliaments, it can be said that in the large majority there is no restriction on the Speaker, which was also in the current House Rule and the previous House Rule; to be precise, not on the Speaker, but on the Speaker. The fact is that the Hungarian house rule restricts a member of the board of directors in the right of his or her fundamental representatives, namely in the right to vote. Most of Europe's parliaments, the German, the Italian, the French, but in order to stay until yesterday, the European Parliament does not do so, there the leading President can, mutatis mutandis, exercise the right to vote on all Members in Hungarian. In no way shall his impartiality or impartiality in relation to the sitting be affected by the fact that he or she votes or does not vote. But I also have to say that, according to Article 4 of the Constitution, this restriction cannot be maintained, because Article 4 of the Constitution speaks quite clearly: all Members have the same rights and obligations; and that is the current provision of the house rule, which prohibits the President of the House from taking decisions, unduly and unlawfully restricts the most important right of the President-in-Office, like all Members, to take decisions, in Hungarian: the right to vote. I would ask my fellow Members to support, even after a debate, the amendment of the house rules in this respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that the representative of the Government has indicated in advance that he respects the independence of the Parliament and therefore does not wish to present his position at the beginning of the debate. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions may be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker, and that only one Member per group of Members and the first independent Member applying for a speech have the opportunity to comment. I give the floor to Congressman Gulyás Gergely, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, After the house rule in 1994, the Parliament adopted the Act on Parliament for the first time in 2012 and the new house rule in February 2014. The importance of these rules is that, on the one hand, following the basic law, the fundamental laws have been renewed, in which today a single code regulates the functioning of Parliament as a whole, and, on the other hand, we have talked a lot about the need to change the order of legislation in order to create better laws and to prevent a more substantive debate about the adoption of these laws. Overall, the amendment before this House is of a legal nature in most of its points. I would also like to address in detail the issues already dealt with in my colleague György Balla's national expo. One of these is the regulation on the voting rights of the Speaker. First of all, of course, we do not want to be hypocritical, obviously this proposal also serves to enforce political power within the Parliament which has been established according to the electoral will, and it is contrary to the customary law of the previous 24 years. However, when we look at the arguments for this amendment, we see that in international practice it is established and accepted that the head of the Parliament has the right to vote, and that this is the result of the Hungarian Constitution, especially given the fact that the Speaker of Parliament is entitled to determine who is the head of the Parliament. Thus, in its present form, the House Rules authorize the current Speaker to determine from which faction, provided that the Vice-President of that faction has been nominated and that his vice-president has been elected to the Vice-President of the Parliament, in which case he withdraws the voting rights. In this sense, it also gives the Speaker the opportunity to reduce the number of a faction by one person in a smaller Parliament now of 199 persons. We believe that the solution that the European Parliament has adopted and accepted through the Spanish Parliament, the German Parliament, in the decisive legislative acts of European democracies, is much more fairer than that, namely that the President-in-Office is also voting. Moreover, it is completely incomprehensible and constitutionally inexplicable to the distinction that, in the case of a secret vote, the President-in-Office of the House has the right to vote today, and in this sense it is incomprehensible why we make a distinction between secret and open voting in respect of leading presidential rights. I therefore ask that, after considering these comments, my fellow Members support this amendment by saying once again that it is not a matter of giving Fidesz or the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party an additional vote, but of excluding the arbitrary choice that the House Speaker is given the opportunity to decide whether the Socialist or just the right vice-president of the House should lead the Parliament in a vote where, due to two thirds of those present, it is important. [[16.10]] The other substantive amendment is to correct a simple codification error. You also remember that when we presented the original version of the House Rule, we would have wanted to reduce the house rule to two thirds of the Members present, and then, after the opposition challenged it here in the debate, we tabled an amendment which we intended to restore the previous situation, which would allow us to derogate from the house rule by four-fifths of the Members present, but we made the codification mistake that the word "in attendance" was omitted, and thanks to this, only four-fifths of all Members would be able to deviate from the house rule. Here, however, we consider it appropriate not to change the previous regulations of the house since 1994, so let us return to the fact that the four fifths of the Members present are able to deviate from the rules of the house. I also ask for your support in this, and I hope that the Parliament can therefore adopt these amendments by a majority of more than two thirds. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It was not so long ago that, in the previous term, perhaps as the last bill tabled, we were discussing house rules and the amendment of the parliamentary law. At the time, many people were of the opinion, including me, that this work should be entrusted to the new Parliament, that the new Parliament should establish its own system of operation, and that we should only modify the proposal as far as it is necessary to enable a Parliament of 200 persons, i.e. significantly reduced numbers, to operate. At that time, one of your main arguments was - I remember it well, not so long ago - that it was also fortunate to create the Parliament now, and not the new Parliament itself, because this is fair and fair, because no one can predict what the election result will be, and so these new rules will also oblige the new Parliament. That's how it was. And what we are now faced with, honourable Members - Mr Gulyás - I very much appreciate the sentence in which I think he referred to opposition arguments in advance, namely that the opposition parties will obviously see in this proposal that Fidesz is writing the laws on its own again - my fellow Member Gulyás pointed out that there is a more beautiful wording or a more favourable wording behind it for Fidesz. I don't think that's right. I think it would have been nice for you to at least stick to your own earlier arguments. Over the past four years, it has been about looking at public-law changes - let me narrow it down to the fact that a significant part of your argument system was about European examples - that there is an example here in Europe, there or there. We have said many times, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem is not that it could not be in Europe or somewhere in the world, in countries that are democratically settled, to find an example of the part of public law that you wish to introduce, but the problem is that you select these elements from the European examples in such a way that they correspond to your current political situation, and that is why they create a hybrid state order that is not the case anywhere else in Europe, but that your political interests - which are in current political interests - are in line with it. Indeed, there are a number of Parliaments, a number of parliaments and representative bodies where the President can vote. This was not a problem in Hungary for 24 years, now they want to change it. When you want to change it, ladies and gentlemen, to try to get into the field of principles, of course, you will not succeed for a long time. Because you have a two-thirds majority, that is to say, to be able to amend a basic law, or to be able to elect Viktor Orbán as President of the Republic, in the event that László Kövér is the governing president, his vote is necessary. Fellow Members! However, let's face it, that is what this amending proposal is all about. It's about the fact that, in the event that the leader comes out of your ranks, you can still - let me put it this way - decide the big two-thirds on your own, it's that simple. And I think that it is not appropriate, perhaps in this situation, that this amendment is not even necessary, because in such a case it would be more elegant to send an opposition leader up to the pulpit, and the problem is solved. I don't really understand why this is coming up, but it doesn't look good, but in any case it looks forward to the practice that legislation will continue to follow similar principles and considerations in the future as it has done over the past four years. László Fat already made a promise that it would be different - in the previous cycle - then he did not keep that promise. We hoped that he would keep his promise at the beginning of this term; the President of Parliament did not seem to keep that promise either. As far as the four-fifth change is concerned, indeed, the opposition at that time regarded the ruling parties as a gesture that the two-thirds rule had been amended to four-fifths, let us say, that it had been so, that it was incorporated into the law. I'd like to ask you why it's so important that we change that now. If you observe the parliamentary seats a little bit, then you can sort of figure out the essence of this or the reason for that. Now, with Jobbik, they don't have their four fifths, they're missing a few votes, which means either the LMP faction has to be convinced or ours or independent representatives. If this amendment enters into force as you are proposing now, it will not be of much importance, because you know exactly what is missing for your four-fifths is likely to be done on its own with Jobbik due to the absences and will be done immediately. That is the reason, fellow Members, that is to say, if you want four fifths in the future, you do not have to settle with another opposition party, but you can do it with Jobbik alone, simply taking into account the two or three missing ones. That is the underlying intention, which cannot be seen, my fellow Members. I understand once again that we are trying to put this on a principle basis, but I believe that this cannot be done, at least Parliamentary seats show something quite different. The fact that Members have the same legal status, yes, honourable Members, indeed is, but if this principle had been taken into account in the creation of the new House Rule and Parliamentary Act - and I project it, I hope that this body will work well, I promise you, I will do everything on my part to make it so - then the Legislative Committee would not have been set up. The Legislative Committee creates first- and second-rate representatives: a member of the Legislative Committee may comment on all legislative proposals, any amendment proposals, a separate vote on them, a decision on any amendment proposal, and a member of the Legislative Committee and not a member of a negotiating committee, and may not comment on any amendment proposals, where appropriate. I know I know the argument that there will be, like, five minutes at the end when a whole group can do this, and it may even appoint this Member, but honourable Members, if we say we are discussing a budget law, it is quite unrealistic that they will appoint a representative to take these five minutes or ten minutes to talk about, say, a regional problem. [[16.20]] Obviously, everyone will be talking about the main numbers, and the rest, and the rest. That is to say, this Member will not be able to comment substantially on an amending proposal, despite the fact that, where appropriate, it concerns the problem of the area where he was elected by the voters individually. The only reason I came to this problem is because it is the new house rule, which is not in equal measure between a Member and a Member, it is precisely the new House Rule and Parliamentary Law that causes a mass of the situation that Members are not in fact of the same legal status, even though the law says so. Then to come up with the argument, honourable Members, that the President-in-Office of the Council, that one Member, is not even because he cannot vote when he is in session, is a rather strange line of thought. To sum up, I can say about this proposal, and in this, you were right, Mr Balla and Mr Gulyás, what we are going to debate about, we are really going to debate these two issues; we do not have a particular problem with the others, but we do have a problem with that. However, our biggest problem, I tell you honestly, is not with the two provisions in particular, but with the fact that it seems that the four-year legislative style and method used by the Parliament does not want to give up on the government majority in the new cycle. He does not want to give up personalised legislation, he does not want to give up legislation for his own political interests and purposes, and that is what we most resent. We trusted, believed that after four years of two-thirds government, a legislative agenda could indeed be created that was worthy of the traditions of the Hungarian Parliament. This, fellow Members, is not, and this is what hurts me the most. In fact, the fact that these two amendments are being carried over will not cause too much damage to the Hungarian public law system, which has happened in the last four years. But the principle, the practice, I'm sorry, let me put it this way, is to bring the previous practice here, to the new Parliament, but it's a big problem. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this proposal. I would ask you once again to reconsider, at the beginning of this term, whether you wish to continue the legislative method as you have done over the past four years. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-05-26-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing quite a mixed proposal now, there are clarification and clarification provisions, there are some that concern the government's obligation to draw up a report, and I would not mention them in any particular detail. More important are three issues: the voting rights of the President of the sitting, the regulation on over-extensive proposals, and the four-fifth rule that has already been discussed by others. Let's start at the end with this four-fifth rule. Indeed, the truth is closer to the argument that Congressman Bárándy has just set out, namely, you want to create a relative four-fifth rule, and you will adjust the deviation from the house rule to the four-fifths present. We wouldn't have a problem with that if our experiences weren't so bad. If it were indeed an exceptionally rarely applied rule, only in particularly justified cases, then there would be no particular problem, only in the last cycle there was a time when this was notoriously applied, so they were absolutely living out of the permanent house rules. It also showed that there is not legislation in the noblest sense of the word, but law making, absolute quantitative aspects that significantly undermine quality. This was an example of today's judicial committee meeting; they learned nothing, they forgot nothing, they continue exactly in the same way, in the wrong sense of the word, where they stopped just a little while ago. On the other hand, there may be some advantage, because this will require much greater discipline from all opposition parties, because if opposition groups - regardless of party colors, ideologies - are in full force, they may not be able to carry them through, because there is more frequent absence among you, more missing, and then there really needs to be a serious consensus to have your four-fifths. Although I add that in all cases where this country is in the best interests of the people, Jobbik has already supported these derogations from the house rules, and we will continue to maintain this good habit. However, when it came to regulation contrary to the interests of the country and the people, we obviously did not support it. For us, it is as simple as that, and this standard will continue when it is justified either in the event of a flood or in the event of any other natural disaster, then it is certain that Jobbik will not hinder any deviation from the house rule. At the same time, when we are faced with personalised legislation, when we see that they want to continue to cement their already strong powers, we will indeed be crossing the gap from the house rules, precisely so that they cannot do everything without end. As regards the expanding proposals, it is a rather interesting situation, with which we have once again encountered dozens of times during the 2010-14 cycle, namely that they have discussed and combined proposals which are completely unrelated to each other, which are not related to each other. Let me give you a specific example of the many, when certain amendments to the Gas Energy Act were discussed together with the Act on the Status of Members, or vice versa, had nothing to do with one another; someone woke up late, someone remembered something, someone's leg or other part of the body, and then they presented these proposals, which once again belong to the category of dog comedy or puppet theatre, undermine the authority of legislation, undermine legislation and everything we call parliamentarianism. But last but not least, the chairman of the meeting has the right to vote. I also commend Gulyás Gergő, who was able to be at least partially honest when he said that it was actually necessary for the two thirds, he wrapped it very nicely, literaryly, so that perhaps the more unsuspecting voters could take it without turning again. The point is that they have just 133 mandates, and if the chairman cannot vote, then especially in absolute two-thirds laws, such as the amendment of the Fundamental Law that you consider to be granite-solid, they should have a two-thirds majority, because if your beloved leader wants to be President of the Republic in 2017, then if we want to move towards a preventive system, we will have to touch the Fundamental Law many times. So it's vital for you to redefine the basic law called granite-solid, actually whipped cream-light or purfoam-light. So that's what the story is about. Indeed, the main question is that if it has not been noticed for 24 years by either of you, the left or you, then why drag it forward now. Well, that's because they needed it now. Here, let me remind you of how many times the electoral system and the fundamental rules of Hungarian parliamentarism have been hacked, which, if they had done with the opposite sign, not to your advantage, but to your detriment, for example, left-wing or liberal governments, I am sure that they would have expressed similar opinions to those of us, right-wing Members. We can also start with how the boundaries of the constituencys have been established, how the settlement structure of the constituencyes, the number of constituencies, the proportion of individual and national list mandates have been designed, how the rules for the allocation of mandates have been developed, and here I am thinking primarily of winning compensation. In this way, they reached seven Gratis mandates and created a terribly unfair system that, in some segments, the will of voters is not the same, a given vote is equal to one and a half or two when "the winner takes all, " based on the very, very, very anti-democratic principle that you have introduced, you can now sit here with 126 winner compensation. No one is arguing that you won the 6 April elections in any election system. Before they get very upset and their blood pressure rises, I have to say this, for the sake of fairness, of course. No argument, you won the election. They would have won it in a more proportionate and just system, but they certainly wouldn't have won it by two thirds. This is very important, because, knowing your haste, the legislative pace which has been criticised many times internally and in your inner circles by the more normal Members, it is not true that you have done everything you can with regard to the Fundamental Law and the fundamental laws - of course not! It's a jolly joker, a gold stock, if you like, which is always good to touch when it's in the pantry. So it doesn't matter whether they have 133 mandates or 132 or just 126, especially if they want to transform the whole system in relation to Viktor Orbán's individual ambitions and further career aspirations and career ideas. Therefore, to say that, although there is no doubt that the elections would have been won either way by a thick half, but to say that this is a democratic, proportionate, European, most importantly a just election system or even a fair election system, this cannot be said with the greatest exaggeration. [[16.30]] And when they see that even that is not enough, they touch on the house rules: now the chair of the sitting should have a general voting right. So far, only in the event of equality of votes could the chairman vote, and now he will be able to vote, if he likes, on a general basis. It is strange that Parliament's mathematics, it is strange that it has been achieved with exactly 133 mandates, has been obtained, although the Good Lord tells us that there may be an interim election - preferably before 2017 - when we hope that the national radical opposition will be able to bring you down with one, say, under 133; if there is more, then we will be more pleased. Even in order to be forced to compromise, even so that you do not think that you own the world, do not think that this will continue until the end of time. Because, on the one hand, the ferret trees don't grow to the sky, and on the other hand, the longest road ends at some point. Well, it's an old Dakota saying or Chinese wisdom or old Satmarian peasant philosophy. I leave it to every man's taste or good judgment, mentality, to where he puts it. Anyway, I know empathy is not a political category. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] But think that between 2002 and 2010, the socialists would have done this to you or even a fraction of it! You would have yelled in Brussels and Strasbourg, and you would have screamed like the piggy, not a little, but very, not rarely, but very often. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] But when they're against your interests, they're outraged, they're broken in their heads, and they can't bear it. But when you do it, it's perfectly natural. So at least be honest, be vertebrate, be fair. Please tell me that we can do this, because we can do it, and then let us not refer here to international practice and international legal comparative analyses, let us not go here on the level of university curriculum, where the chairman has the general voting rights, where he is only in the event of equality of votes, because examples can be taken of this and the opposite. For reasons of power, please say that you need this very much, it is a necessity for you to have 133 votes, if necessary. And then let's not go into stories like this, let's be honest with each other, and let's not go back to what we've learned lately, to be more precise, for the past four years, that if you don't listen a little bit, you'll be telling the truth. Be honest all the time, let's speak openly, let's speak straight, we didn't just come with the 6.20, we didn't have our first term either, so let's rehearse with each other openly and honestly - and not only in plenary, but also in committee. In addition, regardless of the parliamentary seats, regardless of the status of its representatives, the way in which it is obtained, we are trying to see each other as equal partners with equal rights and obligations arising from the status, and not to assume that there are suckers sitting against you, or those who do not see through the situation a few minutes after the proposal is submitted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. András Schiffer applauds.]]
u2014-05-26-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the KDNP Group if anyone from the Group wishes to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask the LMP Group if anyone wishes to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Schiffer András. You have the floor.
u2014-05-26-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, They've made the mood here. The thing is, actually, with the proposal or the proposals that are here, you might as well agree, because [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what you should be happy about. Delight, applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] I am glad that I gave you such pleasure, so the thing is, of course, why the chairman should not vote, and why not introduce a relative four fifth in the case of a derogation from the rules of the house. Of course. My question, Mr Group Director, is whether, if you happen to get three seats more, or if you get three seats less, this house amendment would still be here. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] Would they still have discovered these great comparative examples of international law? And speaking of comparative international law, you're talking about all kinds of foreign examples of why the chairman should vote. This is a question that has been raised by the opposition colleagues before me, where these great international examples have been, for example, when the resolution house rule and the parliamentary law have been welded in the last four years. But in recent years, one of our opposition colleagues quoted a joke about fungie.hu, which is that based on international examples, a lot of things can be packed together, which is not even similar to what is the essence of the example. Mr. Fraction Director, you have done a great job of providing comprehensive international examples over the past four years of anything that served to satisfy your appetite for power. It's just that there's always been a lie behind it. They can give international examples of everything, and Minister Navracsics has done quite outstandingly in this last term, but everything always points in the same direction. Tell them the truth, tell them the Secretary of State for Justice is here, tell them that if the Fidesz-KDNP had gained three seats more or three less, they would have remembered whether these two brilliant ideas, the relative four-fifths and the voting rights of the governing president had come to their attention. Well, I'm looking forward to it. During the election campaign, KIM researchers may have found these great examples of international law that have somehow not been noticed in the last four years. So, really, you don't think this is the top of the line? ! Seriously. At the time when the parliamentary bill and the resolution rule were welded by Parliament, why didn't these ideas come to mind? Really! Were you authorized to do this on April 6th? In a word, they didn't say there'd be any more grating on parliamentary law here. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Compared to how many specific mandates you will get. This is really going to be all about the fun: if there are 133 mandates for Fidesz-KDNP, then this is how we shape one in parliamentary law, if 131, because, let's say, they lose in an interim election, then let's say they form a different one. If, God forbid, the number of Fidesz-KDNP fractions increases by one or two more, then they will put in place new rules. Wouldn't you like to stop, by any chance, packing Parliamentary law rules or not, in accordance with your momentary appetite for power? ! That's what they've done to you in the form of a parliamentary law, without any conceptual justifications, in accordance with their current authority interests. The number of amendments to the electoral law and the parliamentary amendment that came before the House in the last year, not to mention amendments to the basic law, pointed in only one direction to drag the rules of public law back and forth, according to political and power-technical intentions. Are they really not ashamed? ! These things could be talked about normally, fairly, because why not talk about, say, relative to four fifths of the house rule. Really, why can't we talk about letting the chairman vote if Parliament is smaller? At a time when house rules and parliamentary law were adapted to the smaller parliamentary number, could these proposals not have been raised? [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: They didn't know how many there would be.]] Confess. Or what my fellow Member tells me is that when we adopted these rules here, they were not fully aware of [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik whispers to the LMP.]] the exact number of mandates they will have. Do you really believe that in the system of national cynicism, parliamentary law must be established according to the number of mandates the ruling party has? I ask you very much, Congressman Balla, do not shake your head and answer these questions. [[György Balla: I'm waiting for you to finish! It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] What are the conceptual reasons for this amendment, which not only justifies this amendment, but also explains why they could not be put in place initially when Parliament discussed this House Rule of Parliament and the Parliament Act. It's not the horse's legs hanging out, Mr. Group Director. It's the horse himself. Well, it's pretty obvious what's going on here. Tell me why these examples of international law did not come to your mind when Parliament's law and the House Rules were brought here. We heard an exhausting international legal talk two years ago. Why didn't these aspects come to mind? Mr. Fraction Director, the thing is, really, you can joke about this right and left here, you can grin proudly at the opposition, that, come on, what you're doing again, instead of having a five-minute debate about this decision amendment. I understand that Parliament's debates are also considered unnecessary. The only thing we need to face is the fact that you will not have two thirds until the end of time. [[16.40]] That if it becomes the custom of Parliament that the majority at all should be able to drag on basic public standards in accordance with their current interests of power, then there will be no good world here in twenty or thirty years' time, and you can also end up on the other end of the stick. That's the thing. The habits you've introduced here over the past four years, they can say hello when you're in opposition. So we should finally face the fact that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure or the Law, which correspond to the current appetite for power, are not bad for the opposition; they may be good for you at the moment, but they are beating up parliamentary culture itself. And even you may be the ones who are guilty of that. I would therefore like to ask Mr Group Director with great respect to withdraw this proposal without delay. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There is now room for further speeches by Members. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: But not mandatory.]] I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for our fellow Member, György Balla, to respond to what has been said in the debate, based on the above point. So I will ask Congressman György Balla if he wishes to answer. [[György Balla nods.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Anger is not a good counselor, Mr. Group Leader. Anger is not a good counselor. [[Dr. István Apáti: Neither is pompousness! Interjections and clarification in the ranks of MSZP, LMP and Jobbik.]] It seems to me that yesterday is the period from about eight hours to about ten hours, and it was very likely that LMP would not be included in the European Parliament. It's been really hard on him. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: European Parliament! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is, there really could have been a normal discussion on this issue. And what I saw was that the two other opposition parties had done their job, otherwise he said his criticism, he didn't mean it himself, but at least he wasn't hysterical, at least he wasn't accusing others, at least he didn't have any signs. I don't think we should do this. It is particularly interesting to hear a opposition speaker - in this case, Mr Schiffer - talk about how this could have been discussed. And here's the parliament, here's the proposal, and we're not discussing it, but while we're trying to negotiate normally, you stand up and you hit it the way it is, the author, the government, everything that exists. It was supposed to be here to talk about it. Why won't you discuss it? Why are you only willing to make accusations, Congressman? [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention.]] Why are you just accusing me? Why don't you just talk about it? It's all been here... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Have you had a discussion here?]] There's been a debate, is that what you're asking, Congressman? [[Dr. András Schiffer: Yes!]] There was a pig, horse, horse's foot, file, weld, everything, but there wasn't a normal comment on the decision-making house rule! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I sat here, I waited, I would have listened. [[Foreman Novak: Enjoyed it, confess, enjoyed it! Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP. Dr. István Józsa: What is the answer? The president's ringing the bell.]] There wasn't even one pig with a nose. There was a long journey and a short journey, but there was no house rule, there was no Fundamental Law. [[First of Novak: Stand on your heels!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Here's the thing. I think there is no problem that, if we make it clear that yes, this proposal has now come before this House because, by the way, voters have decided that the parliamentary ratio of the governing parties is two-thirds, two-thirds, this has been the result of the election. [[Intercom from Jobbik: 44 percent!]] And with this authority, they don't want to live in a sneaky way. Because Congressman Barándy has told us the solution, we could have done it, we are sitting here, there is no house changes, and always Mr Hiller or Vice-President Jobbik is chairing the meeting when there is, by the way, a two-thirds vote. [[First of Novak: Leave it to me.]] Would that be okay? That's a sneaky solution. I think it's a fair solution. And interestingly enough, the arguments that we've given you, the international examples, the Fundamental Law, and I have to say, none of you have denied it. They all started, especially you, Mr Schiffer, by saying that this would otherwise be okay. So why isn't it okay? It's not okay because you're in opposition, and you don't like it this time of year. That's the thing. That's the only reason it's not okay. It's the same with your four-fifty. As Speaker of Fidesz, Mr Gulyás made a clear statement that we had made a mistake and also explained his circumstances as to why he was included in the house rules, why it is four fifths of all Members and not four fifths of the Members present. Now we've brought you here, minimal change, everyone knows you're sober - why can't you support that? That's how we've been working for the last 20 years. For the past four years, too. And interestingly enough, the votes of the governing parties were not enough to deviate from the house rules, and now the votes of the governing parties are not enough. And there are very, very few examples anyone, the MSZP MEPs, better Members, and you, Mr Schiffer, when the derogation from the house rules would not have been achieved with the support of the whole or at least a very large majority of Parliament. Now there's no change in a single world compared to those days. Nothing's changed. Why don't we talk about it? Why are you talking about something else? Why won't you accept the arguments? Why don't you like to argue in Parliament, why do you like to say dictatorships in Parliament, Congressman? [[Dr. András Schiffer's intervention. The president's ringing the bell.]] The thing is, I can't make any more arguments than I've said. Nor to disprove it, because there were no arguments. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Questions!]] What they all said is that the reason we're thinking about it now is because, by the way, the voters have just given us, like, two-thirds authority. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But not big enough!]] I didn't deny that this is exactly a two-thirds warrant. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] But I am not willing to choose the sly solution to keep the opposition vice-president up for the vote, but rather to bring the house rules here, to make it clear, to amend them, and to create the opportunity to vote in a manner that is completely consistent with European standards and in accordance with the Hungarian Constitution. Yeah, the reason why we thought of it now is what I said. The solution is European and constitutional. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-26-66	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Further amendments to the proposal are no longer possible. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the Act on the Listing of the Ministries of Hungary will follow until closure. A separate motion by János Lázár, Fidesz and other Members T/135. You can access it on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Judicial Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, who wishes to speak on behalf of the authors in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-67	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill listing the ministries of Hungary clearly sets out the basis for the structure of the new government. The T/135. Legislative bill No.3 ensures the continuation of the governmental structure of the preventive government cycle, bearing in mind the requirements of stability, simplicity and transparency. The only important novelty is that the bill listing the ministries of Hungary differentiates between the Ministry of Government Coordination of Hungary and the ministries carrying out policy tasks, as a result, the Prime Minister's Office will no longer coordinate government activities as an independent central administration body, but as a ministry in order to enforce the general policy of the government. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on the draft law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary, there was much talk about the constitutional powers of the Parliament in the course of the government restructuring. The bill that has been tabled and which is now under discussion provides a clear answer to where Parliament's regulatory powers lie. [[16.50]] The government's freedom of organisation is clearly laid down in Article 15 (1) and (2) of the Fundamental Law. This means, even in the interpretation of the Constitutional Court, that the Government enjoys, in accordance with constitutional provisions, a great degree of freedom in relation to the performance, management, management and supervision of the individual government's administrative tasks, which minister, or which ministry, has jurisdiction over them. Parliament's competence covers the definition of the framework for this freedom of organisation. The Parliament's task is to clearly define the types of central government bodies, rules on the structure and functioning of ministries. All other issues fall within the government's remit and the regulation issued by the Government in its original legislative power. Dear Parliament, Under these frameworks, the current bill amends all laws and legislative decrees that need to be amended in the context of the draft law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary in order to establish the government. Accordingly, the most extensive part of the bill is the amendment of the law on the central administration system. By supplementing this law, the bill replaces an old debt, establishes the rules of the general general at the legal level in connection with changes in tasks and powers and the transfer and transfer of the individual government actors, and gives the power to draft implementing legislation. It adapts the order of the Minister's replacement to his position in public administration science, in which he appoints a State Secretary to represent the Minister, thus creating the sharper separation of the professional and political functions of state leaders. Under the new rule, a Deputy State Secretary or Government Officer in a position of leadership shall not represent a government post or a portfolio post at a committee meeting. The bill also introduces a new concept by requiring the Deputy Minister to be appointed. The Deputy Minister is a State Secretary in the Ministry, appointed as such in the Ministry's rules of organisation and operation. In his name, he divorces the other ministers of state in the Ministry in their task and competence, rights and obligations, but he is not different from him. The bill also sets out a dedicated cabinet within the Prime Minister's Office as a working organisation of the Prime Minister. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that some of the provisions of the bill concern the amendment of a fundamental law, but, under the Fundamental Law, an amendment which amends only the marking of the minister, the ministry or the public body is required by the simple majority of the Members present at the vote of Parliament, so that the bill does not contain a fundamental clause relating to the amendment of these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the above, it can be seen that, as the draft law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary is more precise, if you like, aimed at a sharper distinction between simplification, transparency and tasks, the current bill seeks to establish the necessary legal basis at the statutory level of the legal system, following this direction. I therefore ask you to support the submitted T/135. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if, on behalf of the Government, Secretary-General Bence Rétvári wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I'll give you the floor in a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-05-26-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to point out that the Government supports the proposal, although it obviously already contains its own rules of organisation for the next government, so it obviously contains the essential requirements for the functioning of the next government. As the author pointed out, our Fundamental Law sets out the freedom of organisation for all governments. On the basis of common sense in this area, I think that everyone thinks that it is the responsibility of the government itself to build a structure in the governance structure that they think is working well. It's obviously his responsibility. This proposal is here formally before the Parliament, but it is clearly the government that dictates it, and not the opposition that dictates the structure of the government, because the government takes responsibility for it. Our long-standing vision is deregulation, the essence of which - both formal and content deregulation - is that as few laws as possible contain as little detailed rules as possible, and what is possible - what is not otherwise required by the legal guarantees, constitutional guarantees - we regulate at the lowest regulatory level, not in law, but in government decrees, not in government decrees, but in ministerial decrees. This area is exactly where this deregulation should take place, as the transformation of government, the transfer of internal powers from government to internal affairs. It is less Parliament's business than the government's internal affairs of how it organises the work. Its tasks are laid down in other legislation, but the establishment of its organisations and ensuring their effectiveness are also the responsibility of the government. For this reason, it is justified that not all the issues that have previously been on the table of Parliament should also be amended before Parliament, but that the government can also restructure its own operation at the level of an internal government regulation. In this respect, therefore, this amendment is important, which now explains in much more detail the framework of the government's structure compared to the previous Ministerial Listing Act, and will obviously be determined by the government legislation of the coming weeks. I ask my fellow Members to grant the government the freedom of restructuring in accordance with previous customs and with the mandate set out in the above section of the Fundamental Law, because this is an absolute question of government organisation, and although the opposition has often raised the need for legislation in this regard, there is a fundamental rule here where the fundamental rights of citizens are affected, regulated, restricted or extended by a proposal, where appropriate. This is not about the fundamental ordinary rights of citizens, but about the state's organisational and operational rules. It is therefore appropriate to reduce the level of regulation in this regard, to make the legislation more transparent, and to continue on this path in the deregulation process, in which we have already progressed and have deregulated hundreds of parliamentary resolutions, government decrees or laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-26-70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions may be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker, and that only one Member and the first independent Member from each group of Members have the opportunity to comment. I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-05-26-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On our table lies the T/135. Bill No.1, which is closely linked to the Law on the Listing of Ministries, which we have just adopted, and as part of this organic unit, it is very important that if a person or Parliament adopts such a bill, it should always review a significant part of the legislation, a significant part of the law, and this type of change, and the organizational changes, across the entire scope of legislation, including laws. There is, of course, a small change, because there were provisions in the Constitution, the former Constitution, which were different from those in the current Fundamental Law. According to the provisions of our previous constitution, the hands of the Parliament were tied a little better in terms of how to establish its organisational structure. In the new legislation, in line with previous resolutions of the Constitutional Court, our esteemed predecessors in the former Parliament changed the regulation a little bit, and the new Fundamental Law did not include the rule that referred to certain organizational issues in the Parliament's mandate in the establishment of the government structure. [[17.00]] Accordingly, referring back to the debate of the former law, there is therefore a change. A much shorter and more coherent law has therefore been adopted in this respect, which has now clarified the constitutional issues of what the law should contain in the list of ministries. The Fundamental Law clearly states that this legislation now contains only one list. So, in fact, the most important powers, the basic frameworks, must be formulated by Parliament, all other rules now fall within the competence of the government. The government, as a result of the previous legislation, now has an original legislative obligation to establish its organisational structure, and the government will obviously do so accordingly. I would like to draw the Honourable Parliament's attention to the fact that transitional rules are not contained in this draft legislation or in the previous law that we have adopted today. This also means that it is the government's duty to establish almost immediately the legislation on the list of powers, so it is necessary to define the basic framework for operation. Our current legislation is a necessary, necessary legislation in the event of any change, which includes constitutional obligations and, on the other hand, opens certain detailed rules, as State Secretary Bence Rétvári indicated. He's opening up certain detailed rules on how the government will operate. On the other hand, it will approach it functionally further, partly in accordance with previous practice, on the basis of the operation of ministries, not on a ministerial basis. In other words, if some jurisdiction is listed in some legislation or law, it will be clearly the task of the minister who is involved in some task to legislate in that sphere later on. This broadens or makes clear that the freedom of the Government should not be limited in terms of how it is to establish a framework for its operation, as defined in the previous Constitution, in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court or in the Fundamental Law. This is also necessary because if we want to clearly separate legislation and implementation from each other, limiting the executive power in this form in the framework of pure separation would mean that certain powers of this kind are taken over by Parliament. The guarantee of this freedom, of course, strengthens the responsibility of the executive power from the other side. Accordingly, I call on the honourable Parliament to support the presentation here and to help the new government to be established as soon as possible. I ask you to support this bill with your vote. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-05-26-72	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, head speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-05-26-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I listened very carefully to my fellow Member, Mr Bence, and even to the speakers before him. I would have expected that they might have said something more about how the government structure was actually coming along. I do not want to repeat my thinking that I said perhaps two points on the agenda, namely that one of the problems is that it has not been written in, otherwise according to 24-year-old habits, about what this structure will look like, but it does not say here in the debate either. Many Members spoke, who said how good it would be to talk a little more about it here. That's what I think it would be nice to talk a little bit more about it here. I'd be happy to know, and not just from the press, what, say, the Department of Justice will belong to [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Justice Department!]] What will belong to the Ministry of Human Resources, and the rest, and what powers, that is, because, although you are now submitting the second law on this subject, you do not really want to talk about it. What my fellow Member Tuzson said about the division of powers is a nice thought. It would even be an acceptable idea for me, so let's just turn the whole legal system into one. If we want Parliament and executive power to function in a real way apart from each other, and here I do not even go in the direction of explaining that, under modern democratic conditions, even if legislative frameworks provide for this in some states, how effective it is in practice, but that I remain only in the legislation, it seems that my fellow Member Mr Tuzson intends to present an amendment which provides that he should not be a Member of Parliament. The most serious merger today between Parliament and the executive power is that ministers of state and ministers, including the Prime Minister, are Members of Parliament. I would support a solution, there are a number of European examples of me using your argument system now, where this is resolved, simply by the fact that anyone who goes to the Minister is retiring from his seat as a representative, and the next one on the list is added to that faction, so that there is no change in the mandate ratio. But there are many other options. But if we're gonna separate it this way, let's put your leg of law next to it. After that, of course, the question remains as to the extent to which the distribution of roles within the government and parliament can be regarded as merely a division of roles, overwriting the principle of the division of powers guaranteed by law. Because today this is one of the plagues of Hungarian democracy, that the separation of legislative power and executive power is apparent. This can now be interpreted in some way in the system of brakes and balances. If we are talking about the division of powers, perhaps in the area of justice we can say that there is a division of power in line with the principles of classic Locke or Montesquieu. I hope you will, that's what we've talked about quite a lot in the reform of the court organisation, that we've already seen a few hiccups here in the new structure. But until this is done, I think it is right for Parliament to negotiate the governance structure. Indeed, the vast majority of State Secretarys and Ministers are likely to become Members. So today, in Hungary, we do not separate executive and legislative power at this level. This is why the 24-year-old practice that gives Parliament a role in the formation of government is not flawed, and we also discuss content elements in the Parliament regarding the structure of government. Adding what I am adding now and again, it is, of course, the role, opportunity and responsibility of the government, the government, to develop and define this structure. But in order for us, as opposition representatives, to have an opinion on this, we would need at least a proposal. So I hope that Mr Balla's intentions will be followed up by the members of the government who have spoken and say something about the real structure. All the more so, because the model you have outlined now raises certain doubts. For example, this law gives a little more information about the Prime Minister's Office. At least what we know, not only from the press, but now from the official announcement of the Parliament, is that the Prime Minister's Office will not be run by a secretary of state, but by a minister. This, I think, gives me the impression that the Prime Minister's role is more serious. Allow me to conclude that significant powers are transferred from other ministries to the Prime Minister's Office. I don't know what, but probably significant ones. And my problem with that is that it creates a kind of centralization, even within the government, which I don't think is necessarily healthy. [[17.10]] If we get there, I hope we will not look at the government's operation as if political decisions were made in professional matters at the Prime Minister's Office, and then the ministries will be executives of these political decisions, then we will be very close to the states where the party gives the order, in fact, things will be decided within the party centre, regardless of whether we are talking about right- or left-wing systems, and the ministries are quasi-executive. That's the danger I see in the current structure. The situation was a little similar, at least in certain areas, in the last cycle as well. I was not involved in a debate on a bill where the State Secretarys made some kind of professional proposal; in my field of expertise, the law, justice, he said something, and the next day he became something else. Or we asked Mr. Secretary of State a question, and as Secretary of Justice, let's say he had to say that he didn't know, maybe. Ladies and gentlemen, If many of these answers are received, and we are witnessing many of these cases, where the opinion of the Secretary of State responsible for that area changes within one day, it was probably not based on his own consideration, but based on his being instructed to do so; or he has not yet received instructions on that matter, so he could not say anything. I think this is a very bad structure, and if it is expected to grow now that not only certain areas will be concentrated in the Prime Minister's Office, but almost all or all of them, then we will be witnessing the development of this structure. I don't know if that's true, because you don't say anything about it. At the same time, I see that this proposal goes this way. And I like, of course, it's a matter of taste, if the specialised departments bear not only professional but also political responsibility for the areas they represent, the Ministry of Justice for Justice, defence for defence, health for health, and not everything is decided by the Prime Minister's Office. Of course, I'm telling you, your structure might be different. The other, which is not a bit of a substance, but a formal problem, is that this proposal should have been submitted to you together with the other one. I sincerely hope that this is not just the result of the hasty legislation that has taken place over the past four years, but something else is behind this. But when the President warned my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, to get to the point, and my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, said that he was on the subject and was talking about it, the fact is that both of them were right. Because what he was talking about really came out in this law, so the president was right. But what we are talking about in this law was closely related to the law discussed above, which was discussed on another agenda, and so my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, was right. Ladies and gentlemen, One thing follows from this that it would have been good to negotiate these two together, and if we had already discussed them, then, again, it would have been good to have something to say about how this structure would look; not as if we could influence it, but rather to have something to say about it. The other thing that my fellow Member Tuzson said, I do not think that the government will do enough to make this regulation. But we have seen a similar situation, when the Parliament passed a law, ordered the government to create a decree, and yet the government did not create that decree. It's been like this for the past four years. And the danger is that if the government decides not to create it here, too, because, let's say, it would like to handle this issue flexibly in the future, then let's say, as a Member of Parliament, I have no idea which minister to turn to, which minister to interpel, which one to ask, because I don't know his powers. Once again, I believe that the government will create this regulation, but if we are talking about the technique and process of legislation, it is absolutely necessary to mention this from a formal point of view. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the same arguments that we cannot support the law on the list of ministries, including the bill on the related amendment. However, I hope that it will be worthwhile to speak again and that there will be a more sparkling debate on this subject, because at least one of my fellow Members will show us what the structure will look like. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-05-26-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I promise I'll be brief. I agree with Gergely Bárándy, who is before me, that this legislative amendment package should indeed have been submitted in a proposal listing the ministries. I feel that it is a bit comical that it happened on this day of Parliament, that we had to talk about the same, almost the same issues, in the same way, the same thoughts could be said. In fact, it's just his transfer or, for the most part, his passage through the other laws. Besides, it hurts that we don't know any more about this than the last one, T/106. We have discussed the amendments, and unfortunately, we still do not know in what structure, what tasks and powers the Prime Minister envisages of his government. Of course, it can be said that this is not a matter for the Parliament, but let the opposition also be interested in which minister the respective areas of responsibility and competence are, in fact, an important question. If we look at the proposal only technically, it is quite interesting in itself that the general explanation is followed by a detailed justification, which is similar in size and scope, and not because the general explanation would be so long. The detailed explanation was solved by a description of chapters 1-42, and here we can see a completely general description without any precise details. By the way, it was also clear from the Fidesz Members who spoke before me that they would try to resolve the country's governance here by regulation, with as many regulations as possible, and with legislation under the law hierarchy of the laws. This is what it is called regulation governance, which has already been rocked by Speaker László Kövér. He said that, in fact, it is possible to govern by regulation, not to create so many laws. This is a specific approach, and when you present these proposals, and you always give a very nice reason why, let's say, you have to go to the regulation instead of the law; what we have been able to determine by law, as a regulation, is why it will be good to define it in a lower level of legislation, we generally disagree with that, and even in this case, we are skeptical, although it is indeed the government's right to establish the task and structure system in which he imagines his work. But the opposition and the opposition in Parliament have the right to criticise this and perhaps even to make improvements. So it's not good to put this whole thing on government or regulation level. In that case, a list of ministries could also be laid down in a regulation, because I do not see that if you are already moving in this direction, then why not do that. This could be the next one. As for the Prime Minister's Office, the changing Prime Minister's Office, it will be defined as a Ministry of Government Coordination in the future. I have reason to believe that this is only to enable John Lazarus to function as a minister in the future. [[17.20]] By the way, I remember when Viktor Orbán said that this whole task, which the Prime Minister's Office performs, requires a secretary of state and does not need a minister. Now, of course, we do not know how much this function expands, because we do not have any information about it, but I see the same function at first glance, and it is only here that we give János Lazarus a title of minister; he may already be deposed to be a secretary of state. So, of course, we cannot agree with these listed ones. That's 59. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, although this has been the case in part, but the fact that in the case of the Deputy State Secretarys there is a 30-percent derogation from their basic salary on the basis of the Minister's approval, that is not justified, because if a person has a basic salary, the law determines how much he earns, let us try to keep to this; or if there is a derogation, it should not be 30 per cent. One may do more work, of course, but this 30 percent is a very significant amount, and the media has also devoted several articles to the fact that, in most cases, ministers use these benefits, these additional benefits, and the rare thing is that the salary and fees of one of the Deputy State Secretarys are not hijacked, and there is almost no one who would receive the basic salary set by law for their work. So I don't want to add any more words. Because of these things I've listed, we can't support the proposal. And I would like to underline that it would indeed have been more elegant if it had been presented in a package, with proper, correct preparation and proper justification, even a detailed justification to the Parliament; not to mention that this is also true of the responsibilities and powers of ministries and ministers. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the KDNP Group if someone would like to present the group's position. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on behalf of the LMP Group, if anyone wishes to make a speech as a speaker. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a period of 15-15 minutes. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2014-05-26-77	Mr President, Dear House, Perhaps the lack of interest also shows that it is a bit comical that within one day we are essentially discussing the same subject for the second time, and in a slightly slendrian, conflicted way. When you look at the detailed justification for this proposal, you see that until 1-42, you finally have a bulk cheese cut, such a small side and a half, from which you can silab out what you want. Of course, it is necessary and possible to respect the freedom of division of tasks between ministers in relation to a governance structure, even though we have no idea what the governance structure itself will look like, but at least it is talkative to ask for our trust in this. We national radicals do not like to sign the blank cheques so much, especially because there are changes, although obviously of a precise nature, but with very serious philosophical content, such as the issue of the Carpathian Basin economic zone, which I have counted in this proposal, are taken out and pulled out in 17 places, obviously in order to take into account the very important external economic aspects that we have not yet known. But in the same way as we don't know the working structure of ministers, we don't know the ministerial structure. Obviously, it would have been easy to explain in the justification for three or four lines why this is necessary, where this very important area is going, where the other very, very important areas are going, because we see that when, in addition to the importance of the foreign economy and finally seeing things, it is worth dealing with outside economies in foreign affairs, and that this should not be exhausted in the opening of semi-steam trading houses, so this should be a thoughtful strategy, even though it was a rhetorical strategy on your part, in the last two or three years the completely unhealthy export structure that Hungary still depends on the West in an unhealthy way in terms of its markets, and in terms of energy resources, it would not have changed in the last two or three years. So you can see that what applies in words in your presentation is not certain that it will be filtered into reality and, let us say, it will also bring us economic benefits, but the concept of the Carpathian Basin economic zone, which, as a betterman, I myself introduced several times in Parliament three or four years ago, I defended - by the way, I found agreement on this issue - is an important and philosophical, philosophical, symbolic area without which we cannot talk about economic development and which cannot be left out of a ministerial structure in Hungary. Once again, they're asking for our trust in a structure that they don't lead us to; we can't give you that, in a clear way. But we also need to see that, as KDNP has repeatedly led the private institution up to the Commission level from the 2010 campaign, it has never been in front of this House, because it has always been canceled in some way before this, and it is also very talkative that one of their first proposals today after the EP election was that the Speaker of the House could vote, the real four fifth and not four fifth of all Members. It is a sign that they did not, let's say, submit a very fast, very well-developed rescue package in the interest of foreign exchange credulists; they did not make proposals to clarify the Hungarian soil protection, but to consolidate and toughen their own power structures; the first decisions are indicative. And if we are asked for our contribution to this, which lies before us now, it might be worth explaining that the concept of the Carpathian economic zone removed from 17 places - which, if we are thinking not only about truncated Hungary, but also about the whole basin, is also the only way forward for the Hungarian economy, after its dried-out state has been eliminated - where it will be transferred, in which ministerial structure it will appear. We are not so interested in which minister, because this is a detailed question, we are talking about structural issues, because economic development cannot take place without the fair placement of these issues and the responsibility to discharge them. So we're back there, we're getting bored of ourselves, when we say over and over again after years that they're asking for a blank check, and we can't give it to you. There is indeed a question of why, if they are preparing for regulation governance, at least partially, the list could not be placed in a regulation, why it was brought here, when there is no concrete debate, we tell ourselves, they do not dare, they do not want to respond, and in the closing words certain opposition representatives or groups may be put out, but there is no real debate about them. So the fact that the relative four fifths are created, that the governing president has the right to vote, seems to be more important than the many issues I have mentioned, the settlement of the issue of foreign exchange creditors, or, in this case, where the concept of the economic zone in the Carpathian Basin goes, whose responsibility it falls under. I'm telling you this all the time to provoke at least a short answer. This would be the essence of parliamentarism, a fair parliamentary debate, but I regret to say that the lack of interest also shows that, apart from the national opposition, there is not much interest in Hungary at the moment, that is what is truly regrettable. In fact, many people in Hungary are interested in the Hungarian electorate, but their alleged representatives are much less interested, and that is what is shameful. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-78	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[For signal:]] Szabolcs Szabó is an independent representative. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-26-79	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. Here, opposition colleagues are the essence of the problem, and I think they have already summarized what the Együtt-PM basically agrees with. So our problem is basically with this amendment proposal, that the government, the majority of the governor, will in the future wish to establish by regulation the responsibilities of the ministries and central offices, which we very much disagree with. On the other hand, we do not agree very much with the fact that the Prime Minister's Office is being turned into a ministry, as mirror referrals are actually being institutionalised with this proposal, and they actually make the manual control that we have seen more smoothly over the past four years. On the other hand, I would also like to ask two questions because it is not really clear to us how they are thought to regulate them. Our first question to the rapporteur would be how exactly do ministers without their wallets plan to carry out their tasks. [[17 .30]] This amendment shows that, from now on, the Minister without a wallet can also belong to the ministries, so he can actually instruct the State Secretary of Administration and the Deputy State Secretary and the body assisting him in his work, but what if, for example, the Minister without a wallet gives an instruction and the Minister gives another instruction that strikes each other. So they're throwing a dice, or how exactly is that gonna be solved? Our second question to the author would be where the metropolitan and county government offices will belong, because this has not been revealed to us. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mr Imre Vejkey if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. Further amendments to the proposal are no longer possible. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-05-26-81	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I did not want to ask for the floor on an organic political subject, but I have the honour of remembering in the walls of this House the III. One of the jewels of the district, the 100-year-old Gas Factory estate. This area may be known to a few people, so I would like to present this area in this House, this curiosity, which is unique in this country. The Óbuda Gas Factory itself was built between 1911-1913 on a vast area of about 27 hectares. In addition to the factory, it was built between 1911-1914 in the design of its own housing site, working establishment and official building, the very important architect of the age, Lóránd Almási Balogh. The great architect was almost an artist in his profession. If you're in this apartment building, you can see that it's on the beautiful buildings. The working establishment itself consists of four units: two long rows of houses and kindergartens and other service units have built this housing estate. It can be said that it is at the most modern level of the time. Half-circular blocks, in the middle of the plot of kindergarten, facing a huge park surrounded by a platan tree. This also met all the needs of that time and present time for an isolated community. Social units supplying the colony have been built: butcher's shop, laundry, bakery. The local dalard was famous, and unfortunately, today's very broken, unused cultural house was also a place for the officer's casino. Not only is this housing site unique; the apartments themselves are unique, because the designer did his work with great creativity. According to the regulations, a hundred two-room yellow houses were built with green spaletta, in each window with a flower holder and a red geranium. It is worth recalling this because, to this day, this housing estate still has such an environment, and this architectural miracle can still be seen. Behind the blocks, the apartments have flower gardens and seedlings. If you think about it a little, you might wonder how big it could have been in the previous eras for the Óbuda work, for the people living in the Óbuda estates, for the garden-related floor apartments, and for the small parcels that belong to the flats on the ground floor. It was a huge prestige to work at the Óbuda Gas Factory, to live in the Gas Factory. Another large unit of the housing estate is the official estate. It's more like a Duna-coastal villa line that's right in front of us. The huge houses are surrounded by huge gardens, the manager's is about 450 square meters, so it seems that they have given us a way of doing it, and it seems that at the Gas Factory, it was also considered important that the management of the gas plant live with the work. This community is unique in the country. The fact that this year the housing site is 100 years old, and this community is 100 years old, I think it is a very, very important anniversary for everyone. From the beginning to the present day, important parts of the group of people living here are the III. The district community, as the building complex itself is a very important part of the III. architectural values of the district. Dear House, Unfortunately, however, the problems of this community continue to deteriorate to this day. Gasworks, and then the capital at present, are not the careful owners of the area. The facade of the monument buildings is in bad condition, the apartments cannot be sold, the capital cannot sell, and the rental conditions have not been settled comfortably. When, a few years ago, the tenancy of the descendants of families who had lived there several decades or centuries ago, there was a family who had received a permanent lease, but there were also some who had received this lease only for the time of working at the gas plant; if they lost their jobs, they would also lose their homes. We often talk about families who have lived here for generations, and yet are in such an unfair situation. Not to mention the fact that these rents are unrealisticly high compared to the capital, which have been established, and the consistency of the buildings continues to deteriorate. Dear House, I wanted to bring you close to the third. the problems of this ornament of the district [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Or this ornament itself. Thank you so much for listening. Let's hope the problems are solved with the anniversary.
u2014-05-26-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, came forward with the title "Resolving the Book Scandal." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-05-26-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The transformation of public education was accompanied by continuous scandals. A few weeks ago, the last one that we call a book order scandal popped out. This came directly from the violent transformation of the book supply system, of course. Consultations with the participants in the textbook market have been omitted, they have been excluded from the design of the system in the first place. At first, only the textbook distribution system was centralised, which resulted in over half a million textbooks in the autumn of last year, and over 600 thousand textbooks that did not arrive at the right place in time, did not arrive at the schools. Students couldn't get their prepaid textbooks for weeks, months. However, the serious failure did not discourage the Education Secretary of State, so after the reform of the textbook distribution system, the textbook supply system was nationalised and centralised. By the next school year, 80 percent of nationalized schools - we know that four out of five schools are state-owned - can only order textbooks from a limited textbook book approved by the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center. These are up to two textbooks per year and per subject, but in many cases only one textbook, one textbook can be ordered, and most importantly, the publications of the two newly nationalized textbook publishers. In addition, the limited textbook list was published only late, according to bad languages, deliberately after the April elections, because they knew how much indignation the new textbook list would cause among teachers. Teachers who are severely limited in the choice of teaching tools can, in essence, only choose from textbooks of questionable quality. However, it should be borne in mind that the earlier system of textbook provision has indeed left a lot of blame, and LMP has never denied this, but rather than the now visible convulsive centralization, nationalisation and further uniformisation, a reasonable solution would be needed to be agreed with public education actors. [[17.40]] We shouldn't have destroyed the Hungarian textbook publishers, we should have built a more efficient system alive with the tools of government regulation. The nationalization of the textbook market now practically executes Hungarian textbook publishers. Hungarian companies go bankrupt, Hungarian workers are on the street, the work of many decades of experience and workshops is wasted on textbook publishers. Moreover, the new textbook system will not be cheaper, although this is one of the reasons why it is nationalised. Many new public textbooks can be ordered more expensive than the previous ones, and many of the durable textbooks purchased last year will also be replaced with schools, which means billions of HUF waste. The nationalisation of the textbook system was characterised by the exclusion of the storm and the public. At the end of April, the May Other submitted a request for data in the public interest to the various institutions of education management. We will soon face the public with the answers received. In the beginning, all we have now is that there was plenty to hide from the Education Secretary of State about the reform of the textbook system. At the initiative of the LMP, some of these will be revealed. To sum up, the centralized-nationalised textbook provider is expensive, restricts the opportunities of teachers, puts professional professionals on the streets by bankrupting publishers, charges jobs, reduces innovation and creativity, and this is a strong need here. I do not know exactly what it will do to motivate textbook developers to make progress; Hungarian textbooks are not at the European forefront. On top of that - and I left it to the end - even for the students it's bad. Education education is not a assembly line, so teachers should be given an opportunity. The May Other The Politics sincerely hopes that the government will find out about this mistake in time, and perhaps the new Secretary of State for Public Education can give us hope for this. Thank you for listening.
u2014-05-26-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, from the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: " Why has the government not solved the problems of thousands of decent vine growers and wine farmers in the last four years? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-05-26-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It must start by saying that I am sad to see that no Secretary of State has respected this important issue at this point on the agenda. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] It's not me they're insulting, it's the thousands of people who are affected by this problem. Nevertheless, I would like to say my speech, confident that it will have results. In my first speech in the new term, I would like to present to Parliament a problem that has a strong impact on the Hungarian wine and vine producers, including the numerous owners of the 5th constituency of my constituency, the county of Bács-Kiskun. I would like to encourage the government to take action on a problem that has been raised here several times in Parliament, and we have been promised a solution over the last four years, but the situation has not been resolved, but perhaps it has been said that it has become even more serious this year. This problem is the import of large quantities of dubious quality cheap Italian wine into our country, and its impact on domestic grape buying and wine prices. Since many may not know exactly why this is a problem, allow me to explain a little. Statistics show that Italian wine imports could have reached up to one million hectolitres in previous years. The Italian wine imported, most often coming without an invoice, or disguised as Italian on the market, is placed on the market at such a low price - about HUF 80 per litre - that Hungarian wine producers cannot sell their own wine, since the buying-in price is already more than that, and at that time we did not even talk about the many other costs. So in many cases, even now, in May, wine cellars are almost full, which also pushes down the autumn grape buying prices, making farming a loss for vine producers. Ladies and gentlemen, The problem is not new, so it is worth looking at what has happened in the past four years. During the previous cycle, this problem was raised several times by the members of the Agriculture Committee, and even a separate Sub-Committee on Vine and Wine, which also discussed the impact of Italian wine imports on the domestic market. However, this was not enough to solve the problem on the part of the government. It is interesting that the Viticulture and Wine Sub-Committee has not officially ceased in the previous term, but has not been convened by its Fidesz President since July 2012. On this basis, we might think that the sector's problems have all been solved. Or didn't you? The answer to the question is well shown by the fact that this case has recently been refocused on public attention, thanks to Soltvadkert's better municipal representative. Győzsikla Győzső illustrated creative winemaking at the municipal board meeting with an interesting presentation. Unfortunately, he presented a proven standard practice which violates all wine regulations. Using some alcohol, coloring and sugar syrup, the wine with a cheaper price category, but with a mix of quality wine. The ingredients can simply be obtained or replaced with cheap, cheap Italian wine, and they use Hungarian wine to make them better. So now, Győzsikla Győzső, but in his previous speeches to Parliament, my better fellow Member, Krisztián Suhajda, has also urged for the solution, but there has not been any progress. However, as a last week's interview revealed, where the Minister's Commissioner responsible for the development of the wine sector Kiss Eliza said, you are aware of the problem. However, if that is the case, your responsibility is even more serious. If you know what's going on and you're supposed to know the answer, then why haven't you done anything in the last four years? Why were they helplessly watching decent farmers get ruined? I think this is a very serious sin for you. The solution proposal would be given. There is a need to increase the number of checks, but a deterrent effect could also be achieved by changing their nature, such as the longer term of administration. The marketing authorisation should be tightened, which would also facilitate the elimination of low-quality wine. One further question arises as to the extent to which repeaters are actually taken into account in the case of importers. In turn, deterrent penalties could rule out unfair wine distribution, which could lead to a situation for decent Hungarian farmers. Honourable non-present Secretary of State, If you have rightly declared a war of freedom for Hungarian brandy as one of the values of Hungarianism, then why can you not take decisive steps for another national drink with centuries of tradition? Why hasn't the last four years been enough? Sándor Font and Gábor Bányai kept making promises, and now Ministerial Commissioner Eliza Kiss is doing this, but no meaningful action has been taken. Dear Secretary of State, After all, I ask: when will the government finally stop the arrival of the poor quality Italian wine country and take the necessary steps to ensure that the future of skilled, traditional, honest Hungarian winemakers and winemakers is not put at risk? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-86	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Member of the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák, also spoke after the agenda: "The first tasks of the new Parliament should be to combat political crime. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-05-26-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The reduction of political crime continues to wait for itself, unfortunately, and during the campaign, we have also seen the elemental demand of voters that has been shown in order to reduce this. Therefore, Jobbik has already tabled some legislative proposals to combat political crime on the day of Parliament's establishment, including a fundamental legislative amendment proposal to abolish immunity, as this is an outdated institution of parliamentary democracy which we believe should be abolished. After all, at the level of beautiful words in the Fundamental Law, it is, I quote, that everyone is equal before the law, but then it turns out that there are more equals, to whom political irrationality is due, this loophole, which is in fact hidden under the immunity of public law criminals, who are thus not only afraid of condemnation, but should not be wrong, can not even be investigated in their case, in fact, the investigative authorities are hindered by this case. That's why we don't know how many Simon cases there are in MSZ. We don't know that, because, in practice, the investigating authorities can't prosecute a representative with immunity. Therefore, Jobbik has tabled this proposal, and we would very much like the Parliament to finally accept this question. The most common legal form of political crime is the accumulation of political jobs, even at the moment, although from this year onwards, the most common practice is that someone, let's say, is a Member of Parliament and, let's say, mayor at the same time. [[17.50]] Jobbik is a serious, great success, because we have not only set a good example, and we have lived with it as a single party, but in the case of immunity, it is only the representatives of Jobbik who never exercise their immunity. In addition, we submitted legislative proposals during the previous term, and although the ruling parties, even the other opposition representatives, rejected it unread, what Jobbik demanded, but sooner or later - seeing the social pressure - the governing parties also backed down. So now we are going to launch a similar attack on immunity, because I think that, as the political stockpiling has been completed, the immunity right can finally be abolished. This is necessary for such political criminals to be found out at all, since there are no investigations in these matters, so we think it is time to put an end to this. The best example of being able to do decent representation work without immunity is the Jobbik Hungary Movement, because there have been many different conceptual procedures against us, especially during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai regime. In my case, as well, five different cases have been definitively established by a court since 23 October 2006 that they have been unlawfully produced, while they have not been legally successful. And despite all of this, we have never been hiding in these cases after we became representatives of our immunity, however, the Jobbik faction was able to do extremely active work: Jobbik submitted more legislative proposals and more resolution proposals than all the other opposition parties combined in the previous term. In fact, I will go further: since the LMP split in two, the MSZP has already split in three - let us be clear - we have tabled more legislative proposals, more resolution proposals than all the other opposition representatives have put together. Therefore, decent work can be done without immunity. If we are serious about the fact that everyone is equal before the law, then I would ask you to include my proposal with Gábor Vona amending the Fundamental Law in a series of subjects at the plenary next Monday, where this issue is expected to be on the agenda. However, we have tabled even more proposals, since we have prepared a whole package of legislative proposals, in Jobbik's programme - as in 2010, as in 2014 - we put the programme package on the table, on the electoral table, which we have developed to combat political crime. We therefore present these proposals on behalf of more than a million voters, as there is a very serious electoral demand, so we would like to see issues such as mandatory wealth growth investigation by the NAV in the case of all Members of Parliament, members of the government and state secretary going back to the last twenty-four years, as there would still be a number of similar cases of political crime. It would, of course, also be important to make a declaration on the possible dual citizenship of Members of Parliament. I think they are worth a mass in themselves, and we will be asking these questions in the coming years, until these proposals are accepted by the majority of governments. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-26-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke after the agenda: "Let us remember. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2014-05-26-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, two prestigious days gave us the opportunity to remember those who fought for our country's independence and freedom in the most difficult moments in Hungarian history. On May 21, we celebrated the day of Hungarian defence, while yesterday, the last Sunday of May, we held our heads at the Memorial of Hungarian heroes. I think it's appropriate to remember it here in the House of Parliament. Hungarian history is a long series of struggles. In many cases, the struggle was for the mere survival of Hungary and the Hungarian state, while during the revolutions of 1848 and 1956, the struggle for Hungary's independence was linked to the fight for individual freedoms, democracy and social progress. Despite the storm of the last thousand years, Hungary exists as an independent country, an equal member of the community of European nations in the middle of Europe. Today it is our responsibility to protect this heritage so that we can leave a free, growing country for our children and grandchildren. Building on the results of recent decades, Hungary is now a member of the world's strongest military organization, NATO, and is one of the largest political and economic communities in the world as a Member State of the European Union. We need to be clear that, despite the increasingly frequent and often justified criticisms, NATO and the European Union are today the stability and security in our increasingly serious world of conflicts. All we need to do is look along the borders of the European Union and see how much peace and security are not self-evident. We need to be aware that we live in a dangerous world. As a result of globalisation, there have been a series of new threats that are difficult to handle with traditional instruments, which could pose a serious threat to Europe and our country. Armed conflicts in remote parts of the world can also have a dramatic impact on our lives because of the multifaceted addictions between countries. In addition, the security environment in our wider region has recently been transformed, as we can think of the Arab Spring or the events of recent months in Ukraine, but the possibility of natural and industrial disasters remains a threat. All of this should warn us that XXI is essential for the safety of Hungary's citizens. A modern force capable of responding to the threats of the century. The soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have demonstrated this necessity in an exemplary manner in recent years, as they were the ones who helped when tens of thousands of people were trapped in the snow; they were the ones who helped the inhabitants of the Danube coastal settlements shoulder to shoulder with the police forces and thousands of volunteers in the emergency situation; and they are the ones who, at the moment, are serving in the world's dangerous crisis zones with soldiers from other nations to protect peace and security. Sadly, they have to perform this respectable, noble service year after year under deteriorating material and technical conditions. During the past four years, the defence leadership has not stunted, of course, while the military budget has been sunk to a historic low point, and the modernisation has been completely blocked. It is only because of the dedication and sacrifice of the stock that the Hungarian Defence Office is still operational; and they do so by freezing the salary of the soldiers for years, and only immediately before the elections they provided a minimum of ten thousand HUF campaign bonus for the petty and contract staff. We expect the new defense leadership to honor our soldiers and defence workers not only with good words but also with actions. It is time for the promised settlement of the salaries of soldiers and military workers to begin. It's time for the government to change its wrong policy, stop decommissioning the military and start at last. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] modernization that it is capable, XXI. We can create a company force. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-26-90	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 2 June 2014, depending on the decision of the House Committee. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:59 p.m.]]
