u2014-10-27-0	[[The people in this room are standing up to welcome the voters' community.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you and those of you who are following our show through the news of TV and radio. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, László Földi and Nándor Gúr will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to our guests. On behalf of the Government today, Minister for National Economy, Mihály Varga, spoke on behalf of the Government on the subject of measures against VAT fraud. I will ask the leaders of the political groups if they are all present, because the house rules will allow for an answer to the ministerial speech. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-10-27-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, it has been suggested on several occasions that the procedures raised by the US embassy's representative are related to the activities of the National Tax and Customs Office, and I intend to inform the Honourable Parliament on this issue. However, before I do this, allow me to make a comment on yesterday's events. Has the Hungarian Government tabled amendments to the tax law? Are these amendments on the Parliament's table? The National Assembly is about to begin their trial. Obviously, we will be debating a lot of issues, and on behalf of the government, I would like to say that we are ready to negotiate, and we are also prepared to evaluate the counter-opinions that you will raise during the parliamentary debate. The Parliament will then be able to make decisions. In the case of the extension of the telecommunications tax, we consider the Fidesz fraction's proposal to include a tax ceiling in the legislation, which maximizes the ceiling of this tax in HUF 700. There is still no change in the fact that this type of tax is not charged to subscribers, but to telecommunications operators which otherwise provide this service. I note here that the debate has been mixed up many times over the past few days, because, I repeat, it is not about subscribers, but about the service providers of which the four largest of which achieved a profit of HUF 75 billion in 2013 and HUF 72 billion in 2012. We need to negotiate, we need to argue, and we will also be here in the Chamber of Parliament. However, the use of violence, which took place last night, is totally unacceptable. The vandalism that led to last night's demonstration was shocking. Violence, vandalism can't be a solution to anything, it's not a way to settle disputes. Once again, we have this bill before Parliament, and we are ready to discuss it. As far as food trade and VAT fraud is concerned, since the 2010 government change, the government has acted with every possible means to reduce VAT fraud and to spare taxpayers from these types of fraud. I would like to inform this House next. In September 2011, the management of one of the U.S. companies of the food industry informed NAV about the phenomenon it experienced in the food market. The NAV then received representatives of the US company on two occasions. The IRS took the company's signals seriously and started an investigation involving the tax and criminal fields. The investigation found that the suspects were organized to operate a circle that imported food products from the different countries of the European Union on behalf of companies based in Hungary, failing to comply with their VAT declaration obligation. In the criminal organization, 12 companies were used by the perpetrators. The M.O. at this investigation stage was HUF 2 billion, 96 million, 169 thousand. Another consultation with the company's leaders took place in November 2013. Two things happened: on the one hand, the management of the company presented a study to the representatives of the tax office, in which they summarized their proposals on VAT in foodstuffs, and, on the other hand, indicated that they were ready to cooperate with the tax office in order to reduce VAT fraud in the food trade. Following this, investigations were launched, which were complemented by the NAV's own exploratory activities. Here I would like to mention, since 2011, three American companies, Glencore, Cargill and Bunge Zrt. is underway in such a grain trade investigation. As a result, in February this year, there were 50 search points at the companies, accountants and executives involved. A coordinated action took place at 4,000 locations, and 3 thousand related studies were carried out by NAV staff. As a result, this criminal organization has been identified; there are 14 suspects, 8 of these criminal organizations have been taken into custody, and 4 are in pre-trial detention, subject to an exit ban. The NAV has ordered the acquisition of assets worth HUF 800 million in international cooperation, in cooperation with the Slovak and Czech authorities. The investigation is ongoing, involving computer experts, accountants, carriers and transport professionals. If the U.S. Embassy has further information on this, we ask you to assist the NAV investigation with these investigations, with this information, in order to make this reconnaissance more effective. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.10]]
u2014-10-27-2	Thank you very much, Minister. As I informed the House before the Minister's speech, the House Rule of Decision allows the leaders of the individual factions or the persons entrusted by them to speak in two minutes. In doing so, I give the floor first to Mr Bertalan Tóth, from the group of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We have listened with interest to this report on this very serious crime, and we are pleased that such progress has been made. Unfortunately, however, we have not heard that thousands of billions have disappeared here in recent years because of VAT fraud; we have not heard who the six Hungarian citizens, government officials and individuals whose entry was forbidden for these reasons to the United States; we have not heard that the president of the NAV has been in such a situation, when they reveal such a serious crime, how he or she imagines to travel on vacation, together with his or her vice-president, that he or she has not made a statement to his or her own boss about whether or not he can travel to the United States; we have not heard about who is stealing from the Hungarian budget, we have not heard how much they are stealing from the Hungarian budget, and we have not heard who are helping this theft to which this case has highlighted; nor do we understand how it is possible that the United States should focus attention on this series of crimes by introducing a ban on entry. So we don't know anything. You have the opportunity, you have an apparatus, you have a Minister of the Interior and all sorts of organizations to find out and finally reveal to the Hungarian public, the Hungarian citizens, what is going on here and to eliminate these acts immediately. And I'd like to highlight one more thing. The Minister is talking about cooperation and dialogue. We are open to cooperation, we are open to dialogue, but we are asking you to withdraw your proposal for an Internet tax with immediate effect, because this is in no way eligible, and this is the basis for all dialogue. Finally, allow me to give you a bottle of food oil as a wake-up call. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-4	Thank you very much. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2014-10-27-5	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Apparently, the government is trying to turn the instant red card yellow, and you can also see that it is impossible to introduce madness like an Internet tax in the third millennium. It is a bit Pharisee from the MSZP that he wanted to introduce it back in 2008, and then the opposition at that time was absolutely rightfully upset. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Lukács: It's not true! If he wanted to, he would have introduced me.]] In the third millennium, however large the choir may be, it must be admitted that this is not only not a viable way, but in the case of a society intended for a knowledge-based society, at least it would be a sin not only for the Hungarian economy, but also for the Hungarian citizens. The fact that you are now putting a hat on this and are always trying to push a tax burden on every Hungarian person and every Hungarian small business is still quite amazing; it shows that you still do not understand the problem we are facing. They also do not understand that if 25-30 billion forints were to be put into the budget with a new type of tax, then perhaps we should also assess the additional social damage that they are causing, and therefore the Hungarian national economy and the Hungarian citizens will suffer a much greater loss. And that is a category of insolence when they write it down on paper and try to make us believe that the providers will not pass on this burden. You failed the transaction fee, failed to pass on the bank special tax, and failed almost all types of special tax when it came to passing them on or being incorporated into service prices. In almost all cases, Hungarian citizens have paid, and we do not see the guarantee that Hungarian citizens should not pay the burden that you may only have 20-30 billion forints of demand in terms of the budget, but Hungarian young people, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian small entrepreneurs are insufferably affected by what you should immediately withdraw. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Harghitai is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Mr. Minister spoke of two things in his speech before the agenda, one of which was yesterday's unfortunate events. I think this should be appreciated in its place. The tax bill submitted was just an excuse for yesterday's event, it was actually an anti-government protest, and we should appreciate that. Of course, these may be legitimate instruments, we must prepare for us, for pro-government representatives and for the government, that the powerless opposition here in Parliament is going to take the issue on the streets more and more times, and will bring it to international forums, or to the European Parliament, on internal affairs, which obviously will never succeed, because by representing the Hungarian people, with their authority, I think we will continue to do what we believe in and what we have been empowered to do. The other issue is already a much more difficult issue: the issue of tax evasion, which is a series of tax frauds and a large part of the budget. The government has made a number of efforts to change tax rules at European level so that European Member States can act in a uniform and effective manner against tax fraud. We didn't always succeed. I call on opposition representatives to support us, even in the European Parliament, if we have such proposals again. At the same time, I think it is in the interest of the government and of all of us to act successfully against tax evasion, but it is not possible to order. So we must act ruthlessly at the same time against tax fraudsters and also respect the rule of law standards. Because if we didn't do that, that's why they'd attack us. We encourage strong action by the government and compliance with the rule of law standards. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, From the LMP Group, Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet is next. Here you go.
u2014-10-27-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, I am pleased when you said you were ready to discuss the Internet tax, but it is regrettable that you express this skill when a demonstration like last night was created. Unfortunately, the LMP disagrees with the fact that a small group at the end interrupted the demonstration, but you too must learn from yesterday's demonstration. The LMP believes that the introduction of the Internet tax affects a very wide range of people in the country, there are a lot of poor families in the countryside and in Budapest, whose children have no other access to information. In today's world, without global information and EU information, young people today cannot be so prepared to really tackle this problem. There is only one solution: if the government withdraws its idea of an Internet tax. The other topic you were talking about is that the NAV has done a lot in recent years to map VAT fraud. We believe that what has just happened and banning six people from the United States is nothing more than the tip of the iceberg. Corruption is behind it, and we ask over and over again what steps the government is taking to ensure that not only little, but a wide range of corruption is mapped by the government and taken the necessary steps. That is why we ask all our fellow Members to support the initiative of the LMP to set up the NAV investigation committee. Thank you very much. [[13.20]]
u2014-10-27-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Antal Rogán Group Leader is next. Here you go.
u2014-10-27-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Minister, for the specific information. I think that this was necessary in front of this House, because it must be proved and demonstrated that in all cases of accusations which they can put concretely behind, the Hungarian authorities will carry out the necessary investigations. I would like to ask the Honourable Minister that, if this is allowed by the legislation, the Ministry or the competent authorities will publish the names of the companies that have proved to be involved, who have otherwise committed tax fraud and who are currently being prosecuted. I know that this is not a judgment yet, but only a fact established by the authorities, but I think that the ongoing investigations and debates warrant this. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, I think that anyone who accuses himself of doing so in the absence of any specifics, I would like to ask that, if he has any facts on the basis of which he is able to prosecute certain people, he should make them public or forward them to the appropriate authorities. The authorities are conducting several investigations, and I believe that they have the opportunity to take concrete and decisive action in these matters. As regards the other subject, Minister, the Fidesz parliamentary group today is submitting an amendment on the extension of telecommunications tax to data traffic, which sets a monthly ceiling of HUF 700 per month for telecommunications tax, similar to the tax that has existed for two years in conversation for speech purposes. We would like to ask the Government to support this amendment, as the Minister said, and I would ask all my fellow Members present to act in the same way as the US affairs officer did last night and to condemn vandalism and violence. Because vandalism and violence lead nowhere, honourable Members. You've lost three choices. After three choices, the way to settle things is not to become vandals and act violently. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! ? Dr. BárándyGergely: Those who were out on the street did not lose an election! ? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches before the agenda. From the MSZP Group, Mr Zoltán Lukács has applied for a speech before the agenda, entitled "Struccs on the concrete." Here you go.
u2014-10-27-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, It has been almost two weeks since the scandal was banned, and for almost two weeks they have refused to answer the questions that more and more people are asking: who are banned from the United States because of corruption, and what corruption issues are behind this? The government is also trying to pursue ostrich policy in this case, and it even forgets that it is on the concrete base of the national cooperation system, so every time it wants to stick its head in the sand, it's decapitating this concrete so many times, and now it's starting to look interesting. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You've been trying to fool an entire country for two weeks, but as it turns out yesterday, it's not going to work out for you. You've been saying for two weeks that you don't know anything, you don't know who's involved, you don't know what kind of cases you're dealing with, while you can see it and know that you have this information. When it was leaked that the president of the NAV might be involved in this case, you said you were sure it wasn't because he didn't say he was involved. Then, when many people, I myself, in this House, said to the Secretary of State that perhaps we should ask the President of the NAV whether he was involved in this matter, they said that it was impossible to ask the President of the NAV in this matter, and the Secretary of State acted as if he did not understand Hungarian very well. You know what people say when you're missing evidence from the Americans, and that's when you'll start looking into it? People say it's a bad line, and people are right about that. Because you have two-thirds, and you have every opportunity to make publicly aware of this matter, to publicly disclose these questions, and to finally name the people associated with the government who have been banned from the United States. But since they don't, people might think you're involved in this. Since people see that you don't do everything you can, you might think that you know exactly what this is about, and you don't open those lockers because skeletons that might bury your entire system would fall out. While you do not know or want to ask the president of the NAV whether he is involved in this matter, one of the commercial channels can ask him, not elsewhere than at Vienna airport, as he gently backs out of the country with large packages in his hand. But even then, he does not answer the question, and an official of this level must answer the public's questions. You have to answer because it's not about the president of the NAV, it's about the NAV. The point is that if the President of the NAV does not clear himself, it is the entire authority that will be illegitimate; it is the whole authority that will not represent the interests of the citizens, and it will be the authority to which the citizens will not obey. They say he's on vacation with the president of the NAV. I hope this isn't going to be a long vacation, you'll come back and tell me if you're involved in this case or not. And in this situation, when it comes to covering up billion-dollar VAT fraud, when the president of the NAV doesn't clear himself, when we don't get an answer to who's banned from the United States, you're introducing new taxes. I do not know on what moral basis they are doing this in this situation, but they want to introduce new taxes, such as the Internet tax. The Internet tax that shouldn't be unraveled, shouldn't we say we should agree? while I'm already hearing a new proposal being submitted, I don't know what they're trying to agree on. The whole proposal should simply be withdrawn as it is, because it is neither normal nor European, and of course it is not about money at all, but it is about keeping people away from information; it is about getting less and less information that is not controlled and manipulated by your system. That's what Internet taxation is all about, and that's why people protested, and that's why it needs to be withdrawn. Ladies and Gentlemen, The fact is that, not only do you not have a moral basis for imposing new taxes today, until these matters are clarified, but you are slowly losing the moral basis for collecting current taxes, and the problem in this country is that precisely because you do not clarify these matters, there are fewer and fewer people who believe in these institutions, and there is growing discontent and a growing lack of trust. However, if there is no confidence in a national tax authority in a country, then there are insurmountable consequences, and only you can do so, and I urge you to do so with complete clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. People are yelling on the street that we don't pay taxes to criminals. That's what they think of the government today, and that's what they think of the IRS today. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] To change that, you're the only one who can do that. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Sit!]] Ladies and gentlemen. Retract the Internet tax, name those who have been banned from the United States, reduce the 27 percent VAT to 5 percent, and then there will be no such VAT fraud. We have a bill in this case. Ladies and gentlemen. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Don't hit your heads in the concrete, answer the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Foreman Novák: Gábor Simon lead the hunger march! ? Zoltán Lukács to the predecessor Novák: Has the reference arrived?]]
u2014-10-27-14	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister János Lázár will respond. Here you go.
u2014-10-27-15	[[His mic's not working. For portable microphones:]] Mr. President, thank you for your help.
u2014-10-27-16	I've got the moving microphone. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-10-27-17	Thank you very much for your help, Mr President, and thank you for the patience of my fellow Members. In his speech before the agenda, our fellow Member, representing the Hungarian Socialist Party, struck a whole new voice [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: And so it will be for four years!]] It represents a new style when it says that criminals are not paid taxes. I think criminals don't pay taxes, dear congressman. If you have listened carefully to Minister Mihály Varga's speech, it turns out that there are people in this country who do not pay taxes, and the signs indicate that they have committed crimes based on the tax authority's investigation, they are criminals. I think that one of the important things in today's parliamentary session, if not the most important announcement, was the message and substance of this ministerial speech. I also hope that we will find the legal possibility that the names of the companies concerned will be made public, which, I believe, can be a great help in clarifying the debates that are currently taking place. On the other hand, I would like to address the issue of banning the relationship between the United States of America and Hungary in no way making it easier. Allow me to offer you the press conference that was not held by the Hungarian government? We didn't ban anyone out of the country. [[How was the conference?]] ? I was held here in Budapest, Friday afternoon, as I recall. [[13.30]] The point of this press conference was nothing less than that the US government does not consider this ban case to be a public matter. If it's not a public matter, according to the government of the United States of America, we might not have to deal with it. For the record, the president of the NAV may not have answered the question of the RTL Club because he wasn't involved. So it could easily be that his involvement could not be clarified because he was not affected. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Excuse me... because you or part of the Hungarian press are accusing someone, that man doesn't owe you anything. I would like to draw your attention to this. The other point, perhaps important and important, is a series of statements by the U.S. agent, which I also recommend to your attention. The U.S. government has legally committed the ban. This ban has nothing to do with the relations between the Hungarian government and the US government. That's what was said at the press conference. It's not a public matter, it's not a public matter, it's a matter of the people involved and the U.S. government. If the persons concerned do not disclose their own bans, the Hungarian Government has no opportunity to do so for them. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are asking the US Government for help as a friend because we would like to take the most decisive and hardest action in this matter. Minister Varga's statement is an eloquent proof that the NAV is particularly effective, rigid and disciplined in relation to all this type of announcement. Even about anonymous calls. The United States government is a good ally. We ask for your help to make our situation easier, if not otherwise, in the form of legal aid or criminal cooperation. The Prime Minister asked the Minister of Justice to examine the possibility that the government or the judiciary, regardless of the government, may request legal assistance from the Government of the United States of America, and, if possible, to do so as soon as possible. At the same time, it is also a gift that the US Government, if it states something, should report a criminal charge in Hungary. Whether the company concerned or the U.S. Attorney, please come to the prosecutor's office and file a complaint with specific information. If you do not do so in Hungary, do so in the United States of America, as you also have the opportunity to do so under the American legal system. However, as a good ally, in my opinion, the United States of America does not have the opportunity, it is not wise and it is not the right procedure to make a statement, and it does not reveal the evidence of the claim to the public in Hungary. This undermines, fundamentally undermines the trust of Hungarian society against the United States of America, a country that is the most important country in the world, and on which Hungarian society is constantly feeling support, sympathy and cooperation. Compared to that, there's a statement that the U.S. government claims something and there's no evidence. In this situation, the Hungarian Government has a duty to protect all Hungarian citizens. We cannot provide any Hungarian citizen for being accused by another state. If the other State presents the evidence, then, of course, if the evidence is well founded, we will initiate the necessary procedure if there is reasonable suspicion of a criminal offence. I would like to point out this to all of you, hoping that the United States of America will help to clarify the situation quickly and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-18	Thank you very much, Minister. Congressman György Rubovszky from the KDNP Group asked for the floor before the agenda: before the Holiday of All Saints. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Here you go.
u2014-10-27-19	Mr President, Dear House, In my speech before today's agenda, on the occasion of an upcoming holiday, I would like to draw your attention to important values that can help us to move forward with our work. This weekend will be the 1st of November, the feast of all saints, and then the day of the dead. These two festivals are often mixed together, although the difference is significant and visualizing, of course, their relationship with each other. Perhaps not everyone knows that the 1st of November is an early medieval church holiday, yet the festival itself carries many practicalities. The popes tried to baptize the profanity of one of Rome's dominant antique buildings. The bath in honor of all the gods became a temple in the Christian era of Rome. Of course, this can be interpreted as something taken by the Catholic Church. Rather, I think it is the phenomenon that a changed age did not erase some preemptive, earlier value, but accepted it and gave it a place in the new world order. In fact, he did not change his name, since he is still known and living in the Christian temple as Panteon. So, the bath of all gods helped the Christian community, according to the earlier important belief, to have all its former and saved ancestors, so that the saints could have a place in the material world. They should now have a temple, for in this way we face a truth that is good for us to keep in mind in the visible world. Mankind is one, inextricably connected. Not just the living today, but the generations that have ever lived and will be born. This association is the essential and always modern message of Christendom. Hence the order of love itself. In fact, in this total union, we pay attention not only to the saints, but to all our ancestors, our ancestors, we remember their watch on November 2, the day of the dead. I was talking about how the profan secular phenomenon became a sacred message, how the antique bath of all gods became the Christian temple of all saints. I would like to take a similar path now, to translate Christian belongings into the plane of today's life in this House. The faith of Christian belonging is also reflected in the central message of social responsibility. The nation has given us four years to take care of him. So we must take care of everyone who lives today, across borders and beyond, but we are also responsible for the respect of the ancestors, and we must do so so that generations after us can find a place on this planet. We are proud of our ancestors who are fighting for the survival, freedom and independence of our country. I wish to highlight the heroic deaths of the First World War and the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, without the need for completeness, but due to their actuality. I could start by listing all the political results and the attempts to take responsibility that I could use to argue for my own government's commitment to this, but I will not. And most of all, it is because I fear that at that moment this House would be divided, and part of it would disagree with me. In other words, at the celebration of union, would I strengthen our regrettable division? I wouldn't want that at all. Perfect agreement is not a human phenomenon, but the pursuit of agreement and understanding of one another can and must be our goal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform this House that the Government does not wish to respond to what has been said. He also applied for a speech before the agenda from the Jobbik Group: what happened yesterday? Mr Gergely Farkas. I give you the floor, please.
u2014-10-27-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Before I go to yesterday's events, allow me to reiterate in this House the positive position on the Internet tax. We are asking the government, both now and in the long term, to give up the plan to introduce an Internet tax. Do not think about maximizing 700 forints, but completely cancel this new type of tax! I would also like to remind you that Jobbik was the only one consistent on this issue. You protested fiercely in 2008, with perfectly logical arguments against the introduction of the Internet tax, by the way. The MSZP is protesting violently now, even in 2008, they were the leaders in the introduction of this new type of tax. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Not true.]] And we consistently stand for the abolition of the Internet tax and the introduction of a free internet enabling basic services for everyone. By the way, we have included this in our program, and we have been saying it for a long time, unlike some parties, we didn't come up with this idea in the last few days, and we've wanted to do it for a long time. [[13.40]] It is no wonder, then, that, after such a cape turn yesterday, such a large number of protesters took part in this protest, because it rightly upsets the people, the voters, by the way that voters are really fed up with representing a party of government and opposition other than we have seen on the Internet tax. It is also upsetting to the people, quite rightly so, as other parts of the tax law, that would put a new burden on Hungarian society. It also upsets society that, while you are talking about the importance of communication and consultation in your communications and in Parliament, you are talking about virtually no room for real dialogue, so don't be surprised that people are trying to fight for their right on the street, and that's what we saw yesterday. For whatever reason, because of the cloaking, because of the new face, or because of the differences between communication and reality, but yesterday, an unprecedented number of protesters participated in this protest, 99 percent of all well-intentioned, decent people protesting against the Internet tax. It is important to emphasise this because, at the same time, yesterday's protest raised serious questions. For example, has he raised questions about party neutrality, since the participants are quite right? Even better-than-thou participants, even others? the organisers' request that the party badges or flags be omitted at this event was respected. At the same time, it is a question whether the organizers are able to hold on to whether they want to keep this demonstration in a party-neutral manner, because we know very well that the main organizer of the event is Balázs Gulyás, the son of Zita Gurmai, a MSZP politician. He used to be an MSZP official, so... [[Zoltán Lukács: His godfather is MSZP]] Many of these threads can be brought into this story, and you can see that what the MSZP has recently played in relation to the municipal elections, that it has hidden itself in civil colors and tried to achieve a better result than its embarrassing image, we may be part of a similar process here, hiding behind civilians, trying to manipulate the masses connected to the left. The other, which also raises questions, is the Euroatlantic pressure, which showed several small signs at the protest yesterday. Do we know very well that several news sites have reported that they are the U.S. Attorney General? Didn't you just mention this assistant as a friend of John Lazarus? He was present at this event. And I think that it is right that many people are outraged by the grounds on which the delegate from another country is involved. We know very well that right now he is the highest representative of the United States without an ambassador. on what grounds are you involved in a protest? At the same time, the Vice-President of the European Commission invited people on the Twitter website to participate in this demonstration, and the EU flag has appeared several times. On this basis, we are very serious about the possibility that, yes, there was a Euroatlantic pressure exercise at yesterday's protest, even through secret service threads, which we would strongly like to reject. Jobbik has always been a party to the fact that Hungary's sovereignty is the primary, no matter how critical we are with the government of Fidesz, about your activities, we want to solve the problems here, and we will not bring internal politics to the institutions of the European Union or other countries. On this basis, we would like to point out that we are also taking initiatives, we would like to implement the dialogue that you raised in your communication yesterday: we would like to take a five-party initiative, in the next few days we would like to have parties with a parliamentary group sit down to negotiate on the Internet and on the free internet, and we would also like to launch a signature collection to express social pressure so that people can express their disagreement with this face. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Mihály Varga will respond. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-10-27-23	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In your comments before the agenda, three things have been mixed up, and now allow me to respond briefly to them and answer them. One of the things that has already been discussed before the agenda is the case of the procedures raised by the US Embassy. In this I can only repeat what I said in my introduction: if the U.S. embassy has more information on VAT fraud or even corruption cases, we ask you to provide us with this. In recent years, the NAV has done everything in its power to investigate these cases. I would like to inform the House that there are 12 companies involved in these matters, primarily companies based in Budapest and Szeged, but there are also some in Budapest. We're going to find a way to make these companies' names public. What the U.S. Embassy can do to help us: provide data and information so that the NAV's work in this case is more thorough. The other issue is the issue of tax amendments, before which there is Parliament, this House, and we will probably be discussing this for a long time. I would like to confirm that no one likes to pay taxes, but this government had a very clear message in 2010: in the long term, we want to reduce labour, income taxes, to support people from work and income creators, and it will be traffic and consumption-type tax revenues that need to cover state services, health, public security and education in the first place. This is the government's idea of taxation, and the tax amendments that we have just tabled are part of this. In recent years, the telecommunications tax has been adopted by people, this kind of tax that we have been operating over the past two years has fulfilled the expectations attached to it, but it is clear that consumer habits are changing, distribution patterns are changing, and we therefore need telecom operators that are providing internet services to pay this tax in the future. It is not the individual, it is not the subscriber, I would like to emphasise it once again, but the service providers that have made more than HUF 70 billion in taxes over the last two years. And finally, the third area mentioned by the Member is the case of this event. Ladies and gentlemen, As I said before, violence, vandalism, cannot be a form of discussion or discussion of a controversial issue. In the course of yesterday, the demonstration for which the organisers should be primarily responsible turned into vandalism and violence. I ask you, where were the organizers, where were those directors? [[Zoltán Lukács: Where were the police?]] who have a dog's duty to provide such a demonstration and have an obligation to ensure that, otherwise, other individuals or communities do not suffer any damage to their property. Where were these organizers? Mr President, Mr President, you have made it very clear and I can confirm that this organisation has been attended by persons who are partying. So yesterday's demonstration was not primarily a protest against a tax, but an anti-government event that the organizers could not control, which resulted in vandalism and violence. Yes, as Congressman said, the main organizer of this event a few weeks ago was the vice-president of the Yózsefváros MSZP, who was not, incidentally, the child of a former MSZP representative. I think that the organisers should take responsibility for this and also take on the consequences that will result from these compensations. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-24	Thank you very much, Minister. From the Group of the LMP, Mr Bernadett Szél signed up to speak before the agenda with a title only that the Government does not know. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-27-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The government was apparently surprised when people close to it were involved in the suspicion of corruption in this country. And the Prime Minister was so shocked that he couldn't speak for a week. And the head of the IRS chose the far from noble and clever solution of leaving the country with his vice president through Schwechaton. If the media doesn't catch him there, we could still hear stories about him giving medals at different ceremonies. I think this is a very difficult reaction from Ildikó Vida. Most of them, however, smiled rather confusedly on the part of the government and repeated that they had no credible information or had no idea what it was, but they welcome all the help. Well, then let me help you here, so we can sort this whole situation out a little bit, so you don't have to rely on the Americans. Possibly Other is Politics. We spoke when an IRS employee reported that by assisting the NAV, up to a thousand billion dollars of public money are disappearing from this country every year. We have told you that action must be taken, because while the average taxpayers have been using cash registers that are connected to the NAV, otherwise through a carefully selected company, on the other hand, they are extorting money from that office at large. And I'm not talking about two billion forints, Minister. I'm talking about a thousand billion dollars disappearing here, and I'm telling you that the corruption network has to be examined to the very core, and we need to investigate to the very core, and you haven't done these tests. You made a mistake. [[13.50]] We also spoke when the land competitions were won by people who had the highest credit for being close to different Fidesz Dumpsters. You pulled the soil out of the local farmers, destroyed Kishantos, you could win those who only wanted to get the area payment, they didn't care about the rest. You made a mistake in that, too. But did we tell you that when they put out the trade fairs, they destroyed a lot of convenience stores, family businesses, and they gave you the shops? So, who did they give the stores to? Well, they gave it to people who had good fidesz relationships again. Thanks to Ákos Hadházy, there is direct evidence of this, but if it were not enough for someone to write the law not within the government, but on one of the beneficiary's computers, although Mr. Lazarus surely remembers this story? Well, that was your fault, too. We have told you, we have kept telling you that in Hungary, through public procurement, they are pushing the money out of this country with wheelbarrows, so that some of the oligarchs close to the favored parties are sucking the blood of this country, and they will win every assignment unspeakably. It's your fault, too. We have spoken and even warned you through legislative proposals that there is no need for more government propaganda, which was nothing more than the government's mandate to its own friends to proclaim its own greatness. It was obviously good for the government, good for the pals, but it was bad for Hungary. You made a mistake here, too. And we also told the local authorities that perhaps the fate of local entrepreneurs should not be decided on how willing they are to meet the needs of local political leadership. Dear Parliament, People who have lived in this country over the last few years don't need the American embassy to know there's corruption everywhere. Maybe the police don't have time to investigate these cases, let's say, because the Department of Corruption and Economic Crime of the BRFK is busy investigating protests. What we don't quite understand is why this department is doing this, but you might know better. Because we, with our own two eyes, see that this is the case, this corruption infecter here is now putting our national interests at risk. We've been here, and we've always told you, we've been constantly submitting the bill, we've been constantly searching for contact with you to finally change this situation, but you've always looked sideways with a cynical half-smile, and you've pressed a big fat no-kno-kno-kno-kno-kno-kno-kno-kno-k. This era, honourable Members, honourable Minister, is over. The government is alone. They're at the last minute, and if they don't stop now, the country will be left alone. Dear Minister, Is that what you're trying to do? We have now initiated a NAV panel once again, once again, based on the fact that Minister Mihály Varga said that you are doing everything you can to combat corruption. Now, we have collected signatures here in the last hour around the Chamber, and I regret to say that we have been able to receive 0, or zero signatures from the pro-government factions, which already contradicts what the Minister said that you are doing everything you can to combat corruption. Because if you really thought you were chasing corruption, you would have signed these sheets. We don't want excuses. That's all I want to know now. [[John Lazarus: Slow down! Slow down, I can't write it down. ? Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] Will Minister Mihály Varga keep his word and sign this [[János Lázár: Slow down, so fast that I can't describe it! ? Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] the committee initiative, or, let's say, will you take it into the Fidesz fraction and discuss with the others whether the pro-government faction has the courage to sign it, so I will take it and bring it to the Minister. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett will hand a card to Mihály Varga. ? Mihály Varga: Thank you very much. ? A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2014-10-27-26	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the congresswoman to take her place so she can hear the answer. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister János Lázár responds. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-10-27-27	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member claims that the government is alone. Only at the end of the sentence there is not a point, but a comma: it was left alone with the people and the voters, because we won three elections this year. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Is it important to make this clear that if we interpret the situation politically, your speech to campaign speech in terms of results, if winning elections in politics is an outcome? I don't know if the LMP is planning or measuring the political outcome. But if the election result had anything to do with political success, Fidesz would have won the voter's trust at three elections this year, but it was a success, and I don't think it would have been left alone. As far as the United States of America is concerned, I very much hope, my fellow Member, that this is just a subtropical mistake that these cases would be the cause of a ban. You cannot seriously think my fellow Member is banning government officials from the United States of America because of lands in Kishantos! You can't seriously think that a two-thousand-strong village is going to ban someone from the United States of America! Please don't embarrass the United States of America here in this Parliament. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] Because I think that would be a serious mistake! My opinion and my belief is that the US Government is likely to be aware of a series of acts or specific acts that may raise a reasonable suspicion of the crime being committed. [[Lajos Korózs: Are you on the list, Jani?]] In which case the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian authorities, the investigating authorities, are ready and able to take action. We're ready to take action. We have all talked about this on behalf of the government, and we are able to take action, because my fellow Minister Mihály Varga has just mentioned a specific matter. As for the NAV, may I say to you that I see that you have your NAV on your target? Let's see how much tax the NAV has collected this year and how much tax it has collected in recent years! There are record receipts for improving the efficiency of tax collection. Maybe that's why they're attacking the NAV? And maybe that's why some people come to you because they're hurt because they have to pay taxes? Could that be the root of the problem? [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Mafia methods!]] As far as the president of the NAV is concerned, I must tell you that what a government official or a state leader is doing on a public holiday has nothing to do with you. [[Ancient Novak: The problem is the wealth of Rogán!]] it has nothing to do with you, nor does the Hungarian press have anything to do with it, and I even claim that I think it is extremely distasteful that if the Hungarian press is playing sports from it, [[Forebod Novak: 23 million pheasant hunt!]] whether government officials or state leaders are following their freedom or just watching how they spend their free time. I would like to ask that you, along with your fellow Members and others, respect the right to travel, for example, from being a government official or a state official, from having a right to privacy, and have the right to travel on your day off, especially if it is a public holiday for everyone in the country, or to travel from the country or to spend their free time. This is due to all government officials, and it is due to all 925,000 state employees. Moreover, the NAV has no shame in its performance, given the size of its tax revenues. One more thing. András Horváth is being prosecuted. [[Zoltán Lukács: Who doesn't have money for a pheasant!]] There's an investigation that's advanced. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Against András Horváth!]] The Trafik case is under investigation, advanced. There's an investigation into land applications in advanced state. What more do you need, Congresswoman? [[Ancient Novak: Acquisition test!]] Why not wait for the outcome and end of the criminal proceedings? Why does it not give the possibility that some of these claims are empty accusations, and the other part may be true, and that according to Hungarian law the justice system must measure the appropriate punishment? Innocence is a prerogative for everyone. András Schiffer has often expressed this principle in this House. I would also like to say that I find it unthinkable that the US Government would have said this because of a general criticism. I am calling you fellow Members of the United States of America, who is really very active in Hungary, but isn't that unusual from him after our friend? Maybe I can tell you that much about him? This is not unusual, given that when one looks at or knows about his progress, he has also been active in other countries; in some cases it has not been without consequences. I would like to say what he said: was the entry ban not imposed by the Hungarian government, but because of the activities of those concerned? said Mr André Goodfriend, the US Chief Executive Officer, a great friend of Hungary, right here in Budapest, at the press conference on 24 October, as he also said that this is why the Hungarian Government is not expected to take any action on this matter. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-28	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Antal Rogán, Head of the Group of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-10-27-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I expected that, today, opposition groups from opposition representatives would at least say that what happened yesterday on the streets of Budapest, more specifically on Lendvay Street, violence and vandalism are unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, This could have been done here, in the building of Parliament, as the US agent did yesterday in public, and he himself said that, of course, neither violence nor vandalism were accepted in the United States of America nor elsewhere in the world. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that these sentences have not been said here, but that is the minor problem in itself. The problem is, I think they're also trying to hide whether you have anything to do with this violence and this vandalism. [[14.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, If a person once organises a demonstration, then I think he has a responsibility for how and under what circumstances the demonstration takes place; he is responsible for whether things happen at that demonstration that are otherwise contrary to Hungarian legislation and which seriously violate good taste and are not at all a standard way of settling political disputes. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including: Where were the police?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, it could be said that yesterday's demonstration was organised by civilians. The problem is that many of you have left little time for people to think that, because the eggshell immediately came out, otherwise without exception, politicians. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: We will be there tomorrow! ? Did you open a cordon? ? Lajos Korózs: Who robbed the vending machines? Put that in the record. Lajos Korózs, MSZP.]] Gábor Demszky himself came out, who, in his particular way, held a sign with the president of the Democratic Coalition's Youth Organization, with the inscription, "No corruption!" The Gábor Demszky, who, in the case of Miklós Hagyó, I think he still has a few things to say, especially because this trial will still begin and will continue. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] But even more interesting you are the organizer of the demonstration, honourable Members. [[Lajos Korózs: Good boy!]] It would be difficult to say that the person representing the Hungarian Socialist Party, even a few weeks ago, is represented by the Hungarian Socialist Party. in the supervisory board of an institution of a district municipality, there is no political connection. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Among them: wow! ? László Lukács: What an unveiling!]] Of course, it also raises the question, honourable Members, who gave it to you if there is no such thing? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the technical assistance needed to carry out this event. [[László Lukács: Are you banned now...? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: There were Fideszes! ? Disappointment from the ranks of the MSZP: Disappointed Fidesz!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the explanation here is quite clear: after three lost elections on the back of civilians, you are trying to play politics, and you are the ones who, unfortunately, immediately resort to violence and vandalism. The Fidesz parliamentary group is, of course, open to all discussions on tax laws. We believe that we continue to represent the same principles, the most important thing in the tax laws for us, my fellow Members, is that in the coming years we will still have the tax relief for children, which left-wing governments have taken away in Hungary; more than HUF 230 billion will be granted to families as tax breaks, and that is what remains for Hungarian families. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] For us, it is important in the budget to continue the civil servants' career programme in the following year, and it is important for us that it be possible to launch a career programme for armed bodies or to launch a career programme for civil servants at a later stage, because, ladies and gentlemen, these are important issues that affect hundreds of thousands of people and workers in Hungary in the order of about one million. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that with the telecommunications tax, which the Hungarian Parliament introduced two years ago, we have already heard the same arguments once, that although it is paid by the service providers, they will, of course, continue to charge it. Interestingly, you guys used to say the same thing every time at the telecommunication tax, at the bank tax. [[Intercoms from the opposition. ? Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We pay for it!]] Let me tell you two things, fellow Members. Why aren't they fighting with us because they're telecommunications service providers? As Minister Varga said here? , who pocket a HUF 72-75 billion profit a year [[István Tukacs: They work to make profits...]] By the way, can some of this profit be paid into the budget as a tax? Fight us for this, fellow Members, and then I think that we can achieve a goal that is otherwise good for individuals, good for Hungarian businesses, and I think that, by the way, it means an extension of taxation in the form of public burdens that we started years ago with large multinational companies. And my fellow Members, yes, the Fidesz Group? Besides suggesting an upper limit? In this law, he asks the government that for the hundreds of billion HUF programme [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which will be launched to deliver the Internet to everyone by the government at EU funds that can be used there [[The president's ringing again. ? István Tukacs: Strategic Partners...]] take these revenues into account as a part of itself, because I think that this will not only send the Internet everywhere, but also create a market for these companies. [[The president keeps ringing.]] who gain even greater profits from this. Some of this profits could really be paid into the budget. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-30	Thank you very much. I salute my fellow Members. I'll ask if anyone wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2014-10-27-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, these are the most important things we have in common, in order to make amendments to the tax laws, so that the 2015 budget has been presented, and we will act accordingly in 2015. If we take note of the fact that we have social services, we have health care, we have education, we have culture, we have public security, we have defence and we have community functions that we need to provide, then we have to accept that we need revenue from our community. I'd like to protect the NAV employees. The employees of the NAV ensure that 94 percent of the planned revenues are received in a given year, so the opposition proposals that have constantly attacked the employees of the NAV in their comments before the agenda here are, in fact, contributions hidden behind companies whose interests have been damaged in recent years by more effective tax collection and the detection of corruption. Let us say openly: the opposition representatives did not support any NAV measures that helped us to achieve that the budget revenues adopted and planned by Parliament were received both in 2012 and 2013. These were possible for wage measures in recent years, and these measures allowed teachers to start raising wages in 2013, and this year we will increase this by 10 percent. As my fellow Members have already been informed, this year will be the start of wage arrangements for professional staff, so there will be a significant increase in wages for workers in the armed sector from the second half of 2015. In order for this to happen and for this to happen, tax revenue was absolutely necessary. Let me remind you of the suggestion made by the Member, however, that I have made here a long time before the agenda about the tax abuses revealed by the NAV staff. The congresswoman may have missed the start of Parliament, so she has not been informed; allow me to repeat it in a few short sentences. Cases of abuse of cereals have already been initiated in 2011. András Horváth, who you favored and supported, took part in these meetings, but unfortunately did not wait for the end of the investigations, because then he could have confirmed that in these proceedings over HUF 14 billion were discovered by NAV law enforcement; he would have confirmed that in these cases, in terms of financial security, HUF 100 million was seized, 177 checks were carried out, and that NAV employees created the possibility of providing more than HUF 1 billion in taxes. So, yes, the procedure has been initiated in these cases, and, as the Minister has just referred to it, prosecution and police proceedings are under way. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also ask you and your fellow factions to wait for the Hungarian justice system to work and wait for these investigations to be completed and for these investigations to reach an official stage. If you are not willing to wait for this, but you are constantly bombing the employees of the IRS with all kinds of false and unfounded claims, then I have to assume once again that you are not interested in the effective operation of the IRS, not in bringing these maladministrations to light, but in the contrary, in covering them up. I hope that is not the case, Congresswoman. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda. [[Noise.]]
u2014-10-27-33	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP. Statement before the agenda tomorrow [[The president's ringing the bell.]] MEP Sándor Burány, MSZP; Mátyás Firtl, KDNP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. Márta Demeter, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; István Ikotity, LMP.
u2014-10-27-34	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. May I inform the Honourable Parliament that the Hungarian Socialist Party, the Joint Party, has become vacant with the resignation of Mr István Botka? He nominated Mr.Zoltán Gőgös from the joint list of the Party of the Transformers, the Democratic Coalition, the Dialogue for Hungary and the Hungarian Liberal Party. The Audit Committee held a meeting before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr.Zoltán Gőgös's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate, in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2014-10-27-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 16 October 2014, László Botka, Member of Parliament, resigned from the mandate of the joint party list of the Members of Parliament set up in the general elections of MSZP, Együttt, DK, PM, LMP. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 1439/2014. By decision of 22 October 2014, it was issued to Zoltán Gőgös. On 25 October 2014, the decision became final at 4 p.m. On 25 October 2014, Dr. András Patyi, Chairman of the National Election Committee, presented the credentials to the representative. XXXVI of 2012 on the functioning of the Parliament Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the Section, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Zoltán Gőgös, on the basis of which it unanimously issued the following resolution, without abstention or opposition: the Committee of Parliament proposes to the Hungarian Parliament to justify Zoltán Gőgös's mandate. The Member indicated in his statement that there was no conflict of interest against him, so that he could exercise the rights of his representatives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-36	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it justifies Mr.Zoltán Gőgös's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Mr.Zoltán Gőgös with 155 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman Zoltán Gőgös to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mr. Nándor Gúr to read the words of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament, please rise. [[The people in this room stand up. ? Zoltán Grimlock steps into the middle of the room. ? Notary Nándor Gúr reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-10-27-37	I, Zoltán Gőgös, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others, to exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-10-27-38	Dear Parliament, After taking the oath, I invite Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. ? Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Zoltán Gőgös and gives a copy of the signed oath document. ? Zoltán Gőgös was first congratulated by József Tobias, then Dr. András Schiffer, Péter Harrach, Antal Rogán and János Volner.]] Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I wish the new Member of Parliament effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 198. I would like to inform you that Mr Miklós Simon Fidesz has received an additional private motion from the District Court of Nyíregyháza for the waiver of immunity in the case of an additional private suit. The president of the Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We will decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, the speech by the keynote speaker on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide to negotiate the proposal in a time frame. The agenda recommendation includes individual tax laws and related tax laws, as well as CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. T/1705. a proposal with a serial number, with the timeframes presented by the Speaker of Parliament. The MSZP is the parliamentary decision on certain house rules 37. In accordance with paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, it has initiated to double the time frame available to the faction. We do not need to decide on this, as appropriate, and the timeframe of the MSZP will increase by 69 minutes after the deadline has been adopted. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the motion to split the time frame.
u2014-10-27-39	Dear Parliament, The distribution of the proposed six-hour timeframe is as follows: 124 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 69 minutes for the MSZP Group? That's 138 minutes in total? 62 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 56 minutes for the KDNP Group, 37 minutes for the LMP Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers.
u2014-10-27-40	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees that the presentation will be discussed within the time frame presented by the notary and modified on the basis of the request of the MSZP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in the time frame by 113 votes in favour, 8 against and 18 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:20 p.m., we move on to interpellation, immediate questions and questions. [[14.20]] Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. There is hardly any money for social expenditure, but the number and salary of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys is increasing. Congresswoman Anita Heringes has the floor.
u2014-10-27-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, The theme of today's interpellation is the government's spending of money, that's what it's all about. 'Cause life is going on, and there's not a lot of questions to go on about. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: who are the government leaders on the list of corruption? Is it true that they are extending the product fee because they do not dare to raise the highest VAT in Europe? Do you support the Internet tax? I call on the government not only to modify it, but also to withdraw the Internet tax. Let's go public with those on the corruption list. Stop the cause of corruption, the 27 percent VAT. If you don't do this, you'll be facing a civil disobedience movement that you'll fall for. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Moore of the governing parties, a round of applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-27-42	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár, and at the same time I ask the Member to make sure that the pre-submitted text is read. I give the floor to Minister John Lázár.
u2014-10-27-43	Thank you very much. What I'm not saying is that the house rules put me in an easy position, because according to the house rules, I have to respond to the pre-written interpellation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You can do it!]] I would like to say to you that if we are going to fail anyway, the good news for you will be satisfied. So you will have to accept my response to the interpellation, because after our three victories, I think it is a strong exaggeration of you, my dear fellow Member. But that's the kind of profession you start off with. Even so, starting representatives may learn the house rules and try to adapt to the situation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Who are these people?]] I just have one more thing to say. It's very important not only the protests yesterday, but all the protests. I've had my share of protests against me personally, it's a great honor, because at least people have an opinion about what you do. The government's attitude to the demonstration is entirely an open posture in the sense that the Prime Minister asked the Prime Minister to consider the aspects raised by the protesters and non-promotioners. Fidesz announced last night that he was ready for all consultations, open to all consultations. The government has carefully considered the aspects that have been discussed. Before the debate, there were expert discussions before we sent the relevant part of the budget to the Fiscal Council, and the government made the necessary decision, I think, after careful and careful consideration. The most important question, my fellow Member, is whether the Hungarian State wants large telecommunications companies producing extra-profits to tax large telecoms companies in different forms. That's the main question. On all other issues, as I understand it, Parliament has the opportunity to hold a debate. It's a place where anything can happen, that's what I've learned in the last ten years since I've been here. So the parliamentary debate gives you the opportunity to make a majority decision and a wise decision. In any protest, the Government will also consider what has been said there and respect the democratic protest or democratic opinion which has otherwise been legally expressed. Your question in writing would be very exciting, as you commented on the payment of the Deputy State Secretarys and State Secretarys. About the numbers, if I have time, I'd like to say a few sentences. This would be, if the congresswoman would allow me to tell you what you asked me, so I will help you with your rejoinder. I'll do the job for you, as long as it's about wages and salaries. [[Noise from the benches of MSZP. ? Dr. László Kács: How spicy! It's a little cynical.]] Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia have the least ministries and the least ministers in Hungary. Compared to the Czech Republic, half the number of State Secretarys and half the number of Deputy State Secretarys are equal to the V4 average. So we are either a V4 average, or there are a lot less State Secretary and Deputy State Secretary than the Czech Republic, compared to the number of an otherwise smaller country, the Czech Republic. But obviously, there are cases where more secretary of state and deputy secretary of state are needed. The situation here does not justify this. As regards wages: Secretary of State and Deputy State Secretary, the dissatisfaction of my colleagues justifies me to say that in 2006 the salary of a State Secretary was HUF 949 400 and the salary of an Assistant State Secretary was HUF 712 100. Now HUF 997 200 and HUF 747 900 are paid by the Deputy State Secretary. At the time of your administration, the leaders of public companies who can earn 2 million forints today, if we're already poking through each other's pockets, let's do this thoroughly. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] At the time of your administration, the head of all state companies made about HUF 6 million a month. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now it's stolen in the NAV, for example!]] What we've taken back there, we've all spent on the state's social welfare expenditures. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. A statement from Jobbik's benches: It's not polite to humiliate a woman like that!]]
u2014-10-27-44	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the congresswoman if she will accept the ministerial answer.
u2014-10-27-45	As long as the ministers do not answer our questions, I cannot, of course, accept your answer. [[Rushing up, coming up from the pro-government benches.]] You know, when I was 30, I grew up in a European democracy. You do not know the rules of European democracy. [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] For me, democracy is natural. For you, it's just a nuisance. [[It's a lot of noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why I can't accept your answer. [[János Lázár: We are so provincial! ? Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2014-10-27-46	Thank you very much. The congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 100 votes to 29, with 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice:. When will the government execute the bailiffs, and when will the enforcement procedures be held by the state? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor. [[Nándor Gúr is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck, László Földi, József Attila Móring.]]
u2014-10-27-47	Thank you very much, Honourable House. Dear Secretary of State, Since Jobbik's presence in Parliament, he has been constantly talking about the abusive operation of the independent judicial enforcement system, several legislative amendments and Parliamentary resolution proposals to resolve the situation. It can be seen that the current enforcement system operates as an economic slaughterhouse, the main beneficiaries of which are executives acting as profit-oriented undertakings. We are convinced that we need a non-profit, state-owned system, which could carry out its task under strict supervision and guarantees. According to news in the press, the government can sense the problem. Despite the foreign exchange loan law that entered into force on 26 July, no executives stopped the proceedings against the debtors, State Secretary Gergely Patyi promised strict steps. Nevertheless, we have heard interesting news about the Executive Chamber's house. According to press reports, the Chamber's general meeting was held in luxurious circumstances in a five-star hotel in Sarvar, where the whole hotel was rented to about 200 executives and escorts, and their entertainment was provided by renowned singers and musicians. According to the press, the general assembly could not be conducted properly, so it could not be ruled out that the public body had only one expensive party. Based on the luxury hotel website, the meeting could not be cheap, since a double room costs almost HUF 150,000 for two nights. At that time, the chamber president responded that they were actually celebrating rather than holding a general assembly. What's that? We could add to that. On the Internet, a letter was published in which the new president of the Chamber turned directly to Ferenc Gyurcsány on 14 October, asking him for help and consultation because he felt the existence and jobs of the executives in danger. In the letter, the President of the Chamber calls Gyurcsány a protector of social values and refers to their former good relationship at the time of his prime ministership. Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik is not concerned with the existence of executives, but is trying to help people who are in a desperate situation under implementation. The system of independent judicial enforcement has failed, operates abusively and, in our view, cannot be reformed. [[14.30]] We need a new non-profit state system. I ask, therefore, when do you intend to account for the executioners, and when do you intend to introduce a system of non-abuse enforcement, which is a public task. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-48	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2014-10-27-49	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Justice agrees with a significant part of its criticism of court executioners. There are indeed anomalies in the operation of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court and in the operation of independent court executioners. Public confidence vis-à-vis the implementing organisation system is feltly shaken and needs to be restored. For this reason, the Ministry of Justice has been dealing with the problem mapping for months, so the Ministry has already put together a problem map and the Ministry of Justice is preparing for decisive action. Our proposal on this matter, our proposals, will be submitted to the government this year, and it is expected that it will then be presented to the Parliament. About the issue of nationalization. I would like to point out that independent judicial executives are public officials who act on behalf of the State and carry out public tasks in the course of their operation. In this sense, judicial enforcement is still a state task and a public organisation system ensures implementation. It is completely independent, but a legitimate issue is the remuneration of bailiffs and their system of interests. In the Hungarian system of implementation, the State designates a member of the executing authority in law, not only the framework for its work, but all its elements are set out in law, and asks the authority to account for the outcome of this in accordance with the legislation. These are all public tasks, so state implementation is implemented in this sense. I would like to remind you that since 2010, the current government has significantly tightened the professional and ethical requirements of bailiffs. Thus, in February 2011, we tightened the rules on conflicts of interest, the professional criteria for assessing executive job applications. As of 1 January 2013, we have made the appointment of executioner and executor, as well as the provision of further training obligations for executives. In the regulation issued in June 2013, the Minister of Justice aimed at restructuring executive remuneration in various cases, where the basic objective of the regulation was to reduce the burden on debtors by reducing the implementation costs and making them more rational. The letter mentioned by the Member, which would come from the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives in your interpellation, asked for information about our wallet, and the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Executives informed the wallet that this letter was not from him, and therefore the Chamber president filed a criminal complaint. Honourable Congressman, I think it is very important that, when criticising Hungarian judicial enforcement or independent judicial enforcement, we should bear in mind that judicial enforcement is an extremely important part of the proceedings of the rule of law, the Hungarian judicial proceedings will only be complete if you do not question the enforcement of the court. The Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court and the members of the Chamber of Executives of the Court may be subject to legitimate criticism, but judicial enforcement is necessary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-50	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-10-27-51	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept the answer, Mr Secretary, because we do not consider the current system to be reformed. The introduction of legal qualifications, for example, in a non-adult system, is not acceptable to us. And think about it: in most cases, when the debtor and the creditor agree, they could close the procedure, it is often the executive's labor fee that is the barrier to the agreement, and often the situation cannot settle because there is the enforcer who wants to iron his own prize first. We are not, of course, calling into question the system of implementation. There is a need for judicial enforcement. It is necessary that the court's judgments are properly enforced, but not in such a way that, as I have said, an economic slaughterhouse should be a system of executions, where, if enforcement is initiated, it cannot be avoided, and if the debtor and, if the creditor agree, there is no way out, precisely because of the current enforcement system. Thank you very much. I can't accept it. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-52	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it will accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 28 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:, Can money-hungry officials continue to massage at the MVH? It's an address. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2014-10-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This term "money-hungry officials" is a rhetoric that I wouldn't use on my own, but it's a quote from Mr. Peter Hoppál, who said a year ago about the outbreak of the MVH scandal? when unauthorized use or intention to be made of area payments by many? The spokesperson stressed that the case had no political connection, but that certain money-hungry officials were trying to masturbate. This case has been investigated, the gentlemen have been caught, and all procedures are in order. This was said a year ago, and it was also a year ago when a socialist politician Zoltán Gőgös mentioned 1 billion forints, that this scandal could affect so much, according to Mr. Gyula Budai, what Mr.Zoltán Gőgös said, and it is a maximum of 24 companies and 400 million forints. Now, to me, the surprising thing was that on the columns of the Hungarian Nation, which in most cases is better informed than the opposition MPs, the newspaper recently said that by mid-October the number of suspects had increased to 60 in the area payments fraud, and that 14 thousand hectares of the area were included in the investigation by secret service methods. It turned out that now 60 companies and more than 1 billion forints were affected by the activities of this criminal group by white-collar criminals. Overall, it can be seen that the prediction of one year ago was realized for HUF 1 billion and for the constantly expanding background. Now we're wondering what's going on at the MVH. What's going on over there? Minister Fazekas appointed the Vice-President of the MVH in custody, and Mr Péter Palkovics, former President of the MVH, who recently resigned under rather suspicious circumstances, and we did not know what was going on in this. You said Mr Hoppál a year ago that he had no political ties. Since then, the investigation has expanded to include a Fidesz Transdanubian municipal representative who wanted to receive HUF 400 million of agricultural subsidies illegally. And the investigation isn't over. It's been a year. We don't see the charges started. We see it's swelling, there's a scandal, and we don't see what's going on at the MVH. We see cuts, sendings, unjustified, quick resignations, but at the same time we see that this scandal, as well as the playground and a lot of others, is constantly swelling, and we do not see the Minister, the government, trying to overcome it. I ask that the Secretary of State, on behalf of the Minister, reassure us that at the MVH, this hundreds of billions of forints a year running through his hands are in good hands and that they can monitor and control the system of all this, and that these resources are not in danger by organised criminals and money-hungry officials. Thank you very much for your reply. [[14.40]]
u2014-10-27-54	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would also like to remind the Member that the text of the interpellation submitted should be the same as the text here on the table. Although most of the content is the same, there are names and data in your speech which are not in the text, it is therefore very difficult to give an accurate answer. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, In answer to your question, I would first like to reassure you that the farmers' money at the MVH is in good hands, and there is no reason or reason why you should be nervous. At the beginning of my reply, I would like to state the most important fact, namely that the public property has not been damaged, no payments have been made to those who wish to abuse it. I think it is a political ambience that you are making this case look like a threat to the payment of the money of decently-proclaimed farmers. Following the disclosure of the case, the stricter controls introduced by the MVH slowed down the process, but farmers who submitted their applications in accordance with the legislation and were able to justify land use were granted complete support after the verification. I would also like to inform you that the audit of area payments by Brussels and Luxembourg has been completed in the weeks. During the inspections, the EU found the operation and the results of its operations in order. In response to own-initiative and announcements, both in accordance with domestic and EU legislation, the Office examines the use of risky reports. In view of this, I would like to ask Mr President that if you have information that someone is trying to abuse again, please also indicate this to the MVH and the competent investigating authorities. Honourable Congressman, In your interpellation, you're trying to blur together more independent information in order to verify your claims. You say that the former president of the MVH has left the office for a rather suspicious reason. I do not know what is suspicious about the fact that the President indicated at the end of the EU budget cycle from 2007 to 2013 that he did not wish to participate in the next new term. In our answers to the written questions you have submitted, we have already informed you that the MVH and the Ministry, together with the involvement of the NAV and the police, have acted in a timely manner against those who wish to draw funds illegally. Right now, the investigation is being conducted by the police and the NAV. In view of the fact that the case is being prosecuted, I cannot provide any additional information or information in this particular case. Dear Parliament, At the end of my reply, I would like to tell farmers that payment of area payments started on 16 October 2014. In the framework of this, an amount of more than HUF 47 billion was transferred to 102,000 applicants at the first stage, while within a few weeks a further 50,000 customers will receive the support at the second stage, worth nearly HUF 80 billion. It can also be seen that the government will do everything in its power and in the future to ensure that farmers receive the aid in good time and in full, even if sometimes there are questions and doubts that you have expressed. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Sallai if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-10-27-57	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'm telling you why I can't accept it. Well, you're giving me conflicting information. At the beginning of his speech, he said that there was no damage to the register because he was arrested. And then he said that the investigation was still going on, that they didn't know what his results were yet. Then how do you know it wasn't a waste of the register? We have no idea how many times this has been tried. It was found out in 2013, but do we know whether this was tried and used in 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009? We have no idea. There's an investigation going on, and you're going to state in advance that there's no damage to the public register. Overall, the public register is regarded as saying that there was no damage to the farmers. Of course it's for him. For each unauthorized aid, the amount of normal, fair farmers is reduced due to the distribution. If everyone uses only one hectare illegally, they always do so at the expense of all other farmers. And I'm not trying to shampoo the information, I'm trying to put out a picture of what's going on. There's information, but there's not enough information to know what's going on. That's why I'm trying to ask. Thank you very much, I cannot accept your response to the interpellation. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-58	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes in favour, 33 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Representative Kristóf Szatmáry, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, How has Hungary become one of the centres of motor vehicle manufacturing in Europe? It's an address. Mr Kristóf Szatmáry has the floor.
u2014-10-27-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The 2013 year brought a significant turn in the life of the economy in Hungary: in 2013, the Hungarian economy was on the road to sustainable growth in the long term. There is no better evidence of this than the fact that, following last year's one-and-a-half-percent GDP growth, this year's most cautious estimates are now predicting a 3-3.5 per cent increase and a similar rate for next year's growth. Fortunately, the number of people employed has steadily increased by more than 4 million, with the unemployment rate falling by 2.3 points across Europe in the last year. In addition to economic growth, last year has also brought significant positive results in vehicle production. In one year, the sector expanded by 32 percent, while it was estimated that nearly 2,000 new Hungarian jobs were created. Last year, the automotive industry produced a production value of EUR 18 billion, which is also 18 percent of the total Hungarian manufacturing performance, 10 percent of GDP and 18 percent of total exports. Moreover, small and medium-sized enterprises working as suppliers are increasingly involved in vehicle manufacturing. There are currently 726 automotive companies in Hungary, which directly employ more than 120,000 people. Mr. Secretary. Hungary has become one of the centres of vehicle production in Europe in the last year, as the main role of vehicle production is the Hungarian economy behind Slovakia and the Czech Republic, based on comparative data. In view of the further balanced development of vehicle production in Hungary, it is important what the next budget cycle for the 2014-2020 EU period has in store for them, which should offer a number of opportunities to use development resources for effective business development purposes. We hope that, instead of the current or previous 24 percent available resources, the 60 percent that comes to economic development, including small and medium-sized enterprises, will provide sufficient opportunities for further development of vehicle production. A country's economy can only be successful if it supports the work and helps its citizens to work as much as possible. So our goal must be to strengthen Hungarian businesses, to expand their capacity, to renew and to assist us in achieving the ambitious goal of truly 5 million Hungarian jobs in this country. I am asking Mr State Secretary how we have managed to achieve these successes, and what are the opportunities in the period ahead in which the government can continue to assist domestic vehicle production through EU developments. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-60	I give the floor to State Secretary Béla Glattfelder.
u2014-10-27-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr President, for focusing your question on one of the most important sectors of Hungarian industry, the automotive industry. In 2008, when the economic crisis started, the European Union's automotive industry practically collapsed and in most Member States the automotive industry was in a very difficult situation. In fact, the situation has been similar in Hungary, the sales of new cars have decreased significantly in Hungary, and a significant proportion of car manufacturers have reduced their capacity and have been forced to release labour. However, from 2012 onwards, the Hungarian automotive industry has constantly found itself, much faster than EU competitors? is this not happening in many places, however, unable to rise from the post-2008 level? and it seems that the performance of the Hungarian automotive industry is now above the pre-crisis level in a unique way in Europe. [[14.50]] This is why Hungary has become one of the European Union's automotive manufacturing centres in recent years. The healthy structure of the Hungarian industry and the support of the work-based society seem to have contributed significantly to the results, and the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy has also proven to be proven in this area. Is the increase in production not only a better use of capacity? I mean, where they used to work, say, on a shift, they're able to produce two or three shifts again? In addition, new capacities have been created, such as the Mercedes plant and its related suppliers. Today in Hungary, the production of motor vehicles already accounts for more than a quarter of industrial production, and this continues to grow. In the background of the expansion, there are not only large car manufacturers, who are primarily known for their assembly activities, such as Suzuki, Opel, Audi or more recently Mercedes, but also manufacturers whose suppliers are basically in Hungary, for example most suppliers of BMW in all Europe are in Hungary, or let me give an example to one of Toyota's subsidiaries, Densó, which manufactures various parts and main units for Toyota by creating more than 5,000 jobs in Székesfehérvár. To make better use of our opportunities, we have to do a lot of things. Firstly, the European Union's objective is to ensure that by 2020 there will be 20 percent of industrial production in the EU compared to GDP; in Hungary this, we hope, will be 30 percent by then. In the context of reindustrialisation, we want to primarily support SMEs' capacity-enhancing investments and suppliers, we will remove bureaucratic barriers, we will support research, development and innovation, so that there is a sufficient amount of labour available, because this is an increasing number of barriers to car manufacturing. We need to change the vocational training system, and we need to improve our opportunities in this area, too, so that there is a sufficient number of skilled workers available. Are we hoping that external trade agreements will be concluded by the Union? Like the United States of America? will also have a significant market-creating effect for the Hungarian automotive industry. Finally, let me tell you about the Jedlik Ános plan, the electric car ride. Today, there are only a few electric cars and hybrid cars in the world, but according to the International Energy Agency, the total number of new cars sold will increase by 2.5 times by 2050, so there will be a significant increase in the market for new cars, but by 2050 70 percent of all new cars sold in the world will be sold in the world. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] hybrid, electric and plug-in. New technologies, new technology cars need new capacities [[The president's ringing again.]] , which will create additional opportunities for Hungary. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-10-27-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, I accept the answer, because I think that when we talk about putting the Hungarian economy on a long-term, sustainable path, then, like all such economies, we need flagships, we need industries that are outstanding, which the government can give priority to, and which also indicates the potential of the Hungarian economy. Vehicle manufacturing is perfectly suitable for this, even because it is an industry where large international companies are present, but what is very important is that more and more small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary can be added to this tier list of suppliers and become direct suppliers. So this is an industry that is worth supporting, and, as has been said here, there are indeed new technologies, new challenges before vehicle manufacturing, which is worth getting involved in in time to enable Hungary to create positions. It will be a joint success if the government can continue to support this sector. The answer is accepted. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-64	Thank you, Congressman Satmary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. In two months the social funeral will begin? It's an address. On the mandate of Prime Minister Pintér Sándor, who is competent and competent on the subject, will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás instead of Minister of Interior. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2014-10-27-65	Thank you very much. Well, I wanted to talk about a social funeral, but I think, Mr Secretary, there is a more important issue here. We need to answer who the government officials who were banned from the United States of America are. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You should answer that, Mr. Secretary of State. [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Who are the people who are accused of corruption here?
u2014-10-27-66	Dear Congressman, I've stopped your microphone. [[Lajos Korózs: Who authorized the freedom of Ildikó Vida? Should you answer that, personally, the Internet tax? The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman, I've stopped it. Congressman, may I have your attention, please? [[Lajos Korózs: I want four simple questions...? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I'm so sorry, and you're embarrassing me because the house rules require interpellation? You know that, don't you? a genre where the pre-submitted text is to be read. That's not what you did. I don't know what to do with this speech. Therefore, if you wish to reply, Minister of State, you have the opportunity, but you can also say that next time the original interpellation will be in the interpellation time frame. [[Tibor Scones: Yes.]] So I'll see you later. Thank you very much. Then the fraction has exhausted its interpellation potential. I give the floor to Congressman István Szávay, the representative of Jobbik, who submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The State wants to steal the money of former ScientNets who have become NAV victims? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2014-10-27-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mr. Secretary. For half a decade now, the investigation has been ongoing on the ScienNet system, which was decided by the former Customs and Finance Guard in November 2009 on suspicion of tax evasion of HUF 800 million. Already at the beginning of this investigation phase, the authority frozen the untaxed, yet untaxed commissions generated by the ScienNet system of some 442 thousand ordinary buyers, and its already taxed income, i.e. some HUF 1.8 billion, before Christmas, in the hope of a cheaper purchase. The ordinary customers who had not been accused of anything since 2009 but had not been able to access their money for almost half a decade, so that they could not meet their potential tax obligations, were then fined by the NAV, seized their assets, initiated evictions, thus destroying the lives of many people. I have already brought this question to the House on two occasions, most recently I have listed specific cases, people who have already lost their homes as a result of the arbitrary procedure by the authorities. In the case of the ScientNet victim, which has now become around half a million NAV victims, the government did not want to report on any occasion on the basis of the interests of the investigation whether or not the former ordinary shoppers could make any money at all, while no one was competent to stop the fines and executions. According to recent press reports, one of the victims may receive his money back several years ago, according to the final decision of the Szeged Court of Justice, but others may lose it if the investigation is completed sooner than the lawsuits that have already been initiated or are to be launched in the future following the Szeged ruling. It seems, therefore, that the state wants to put its hands on the payments of about half a million ordinary buyers, who now have to compete with the NAV in order to have access to their money at all. On this basis, I ask you: when is the investigation that has been going on for half a decade to be completed against ScienNet? Does the government consider it legitimate and fair that ScienNet's former customers have to compete with NAV in order to obtain their former deposits, which, by the way, is being fined by the NAV and, where appropriate, their movable and immovable property? In fact, is the long story about the state taking the victims' payments? If the investigation is concluded sooner and this happens, will it be compensated, and if so, to what extent the former regular buyers? On behalf of nearly half a million ordinary customers, I look forward to your third meaningful response to the case. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2014-10-27-68	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I've had the pleasure of answering your interpellation on June 30th. Since there has been no new developments in the past period, allow me to help you with my reply at that time, listen to this. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Why didn't anything happen? ? István Szávay: I just mentioned the developments! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] As you know, I hope, at least, that the procedures of the tax authority and their exact rules will be strictly regulated by the legislation, so the National Tax and Customs Office can carry out its work accordingly, examine or refrain from carrying out a procedure. As you know, and in your interpellation you ask, your voice is on an ongoing criminal case. The 19th of 1998 on criminal proceedings However, according to the provisions of law, information on these matters may be provided or communicated to the public only with the permission of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Can you ask permission for someone who's legal? So it's legal? And he doesn't have a political interest in it, and he can prove it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We accepted it last year.]] It was this year, June 30th. As regards the duration of the proceedings, the ScientNet investigation is currently being conducted by the Central Investigation Department of the NAV Directorate-General for Crime. According to the NAV, there is nothing to investigate in Hungary, they are waiting for the foreign authorities to comply with the Hungarian legal aid request and provide the information necessary to close the case. While you're waiting for this, the procedure has been suspended, and this time doesn't count for the two years you can investigate under the law. The duration of the investigation is currently within the legally available time. According to our data so far, the tax deficit caused by this company is about HUF 800 million, which was caused by this company to the State, but this amount may be changed if further details are revealed on the basis of information from abroad. Honourable Congressman, It is natural for a Member of Parliament to try to defend the rights of citizens who, in good faith, still face the law. At the same time, however, it cannot be forgotten that control enforcement or prosecutions are initiated for a reason. It is not possible to intervene on a government side in relation to a written question or interpellation, even if it is done or requested by an opposition or a better representative. Procedures may be closed when the case is fully and demonstrably investigated. You will also have to wait for the closure of the criminal case by international authorities and the transfer of information to Hungary. With all due respect, and thank you for listening to my reply. I don't expect you to accept it, because this would be an extraordinary event in Parliament, and I don't think you'll do that. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-70	Thank you very much. I ask Congressman Savay if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-10-27-71	For you to think the opposition or an opposition representative is stupid, we've been used to it for the past few years. This is not about me who came to you, it is about 440,000 people whose payments remain in this system, who are wrongly fined by the NAV on this issue. I'd accept your answer if you'd given me your answer, Mr. Secretary, but you didn't answer. Well, I'm sorry, what do you mean, no new developments, Secretary of State? ! Did you even read my interpellation? Did you listen to what I've been telling you for the last three minutes? The new development, I'll tell you one more time, Mr. Secretary of State, or your colleagues should be replaced, by the fact that the Szeged Court of Justice has made a final decision at some point in time, in an early trial, on the basis of which an injured party can receive this amount back. The rest of you won't be able to get it back because there's a good chance the state's gonna want to steal this money, Mr. Secretary? You. I asked you if these victims could get their money, and you didn't answer me if the state wanted to steal this money, and you didn't answer that, and if the state took that money, then those who suffered any damage would receive any compensation. Of course I can't accept your answer, Mr. Secretary. It's a disgrace and a disgrace! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-72	Thank you very much. Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 98 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Lukács obviously knows the house rules well that I can only speak after the agenda on a point of order. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, My apologies to the MSZP fraction, I was just wrong. Having relieved Mr Secretary of State of his reply, I should have given the floor to the next MSZP representative, which I will now replace. So Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office's Chief Minister: It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-10-27-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for the opportunity that the MSZP fraction can still speak during the interpellation period. Would I like to address the interpellation to Mr. Minister? As a rookie congressman for a routine old fox. Obviously, he will respond to what I have submitted in writing with regard to bicycle roads, why bicycle roads are being built at multiple prices in Hungary. However, I would like to ask you, Minister, who are the government leaders on the list of corruption? [[They're shutting off his mike.]]
u2014-10-27-74	Honourable Congressman, Congressman! I'm cutting you off. The interpellation genre doesn't give me the chance to listen. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] I will ask Minister John Lazarus if he wishes to answer because he has the opportunity. [[For signal:]] The word is yours, because the interpellation has arrived.
u2014-10-27-75	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. If I may, I'd like to answer the question for a sentence. What I don't understand is, if that's what you're asking, why didn't they just do it by the house. We are happy to answer these questions, but why hasn't it been submitted by house rules? The MSZP fraction receives a lot of budget support from taxpayers' money. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] They hire experts. Why aren't the interpellation writers working fairly in the MSZP fraction, and why didn't they write this in interpellation that they want to ask? Well, how can they put themselves in this position, pretending they don't have enough money, time, man, and opportunity to give in to this interpellation? [[Zoltán Lukács: The Minister can answer, but can't you explain the interpellation?]] I'm sorry, the interpellation could have been administered. Mr Fraction Manager, Mr President, I propose that the malfunctions, which are now characteristic of the MSZP, because they do show signs of disintegration, so the MSZP is falling apart according to the election result, we cannot now expect in Parliament that there is a systematic operation; so if there is such a question and it is submitted in the form of an interpellation, the government is ready to answer it, of course. However, I think that my fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, raised his question with genuine interest. The question was whether bicycle roads were built more expensively than they were built during their government. My answer is that you're wrong, Congressman. You claim that for 36,5 million forints a kilometer of bicycle ride under your government is being built, and you claim in your written interpellation submitted that we are building it for 74.3 million forints. On the other hand, the reality is that I asked the registers to spend 20 billion on bicycle road construction, we built 530 kilometres of bicycle road construction in the Transport Operational Programme, i.e. 35.7 million forints for general road development and 36.3 million forints/km for regional programmes. And you referred to HUF 36,5 million per kilometre. What makes the difference? The difference is due to the fact that, unfortunately, within a programme, your system has provided an opportunity to spend 47 percent of a 100 HUF EU grant won not on the programme, but on the programme. [[15.10]] Because these soft costs, these so-called easy-to-reach costs? e.g. marketing communication costs, project manager, tender writing, consultancy, technical advice, public procurement advice [[Németh Szilárd István: Riding Banderium!]] ? They can take 47 percent of the entire program. Compared to this, the government has adopted a new regulation to maximize the amount that can be spent within the programme for area preparation, programme preparation, project management, public procurement procedures, technical control, audit and information. 12.5 percent against the previous 47 percent. The 12.5 percent should also be spent locally and locally as far as possible. Earlier? I'm just saying, why didn't the highway constructions end? Your legislation provided for 10 percent real estate purchase within the program. Now imagine that there is a law on 10 percent spending on land purchases? How much will the Hungarian state be able to get the land? Of course, lawyers suddenly appeared, and for 6-7 years, unfinished, freeway-building land expropriations take place, because everyone wants 10 percent. We have generously maximized this cost by 2% if you have to type something in, and [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And the rent on this is 1 percent. Thank you so much for letting me say this. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-76	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he will accept the answer to the interpellation.
u2014-10-27-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, If I understand it correctly, the Fidesz municipalities have stolen 40 percent of the money for the bike ride. Right, if you're good...? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: No!]] Yes, he did. And most of the bike roads were built by municipalities, they submitted applications, and the network of consultants, which were close to the Fidesz municipalities, otherwise coordinated nationally, stole this money. [[János Lázár: More experts!]] You are the minister in charge, please take the measures. [[János Lázár: I will do it.]] You guys just told me that if we knew anything specific, we'd make an announcement. If you are aware of such a specific case, proceed immediately to an investigation. There is the Kehi, which is busy with civilians; if you have some time now, you will examine how the Fidesz municipalities have stolen this 40 percent, you will say several billion forints. Thank you very much. I don't accept your answer.
u2014-10-27-78	Thank you very much. Congressman Bertalan Tóth did not accept the ministerial answer. I'll ask the Parliament if they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 103 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. One forward, two back from EU funds? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-10-27-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, During the past four years, your government has made some of the changes that you have set out to be revolutionary in many areas. One of the most important areas was the public administration, where they tried to implement the Magyary programme almost exclusively from the resources provided by the European Union for development purposes. The main aim of the Magyary programme was to create a system of government windows, to introduce and extend the so-called one-stop shop model. The programme's objective was to provide more than 300 government windows for 2014 with some 3,000 administrative windows. Is the State Reform Operational Programme the source of large-scale changes and developments? ÁROP? and the electronic administration operational programme? EKOP? support from the Structural Funds has been provided. Following the implementation of all supported projects, the beneficiaries should be regularly informed of the maintenance of the results of the grants during the so-called maintenance period. In the event that, for some reason, the results of the supported project are not permanent, they will for some reason be lost during the maintenance period, the reimbursement of the aid received, in whole or in part, shall be taken into account. So it is very important: if there is no realization or reverse development, the state must pay back the money to the European Union, which has been spent on this. Dear Minister, At the government meeting held on 14 October, he raised the re-allocation of resources due to the reduction of the number of government windows and the proliferation of the one-stop-shop system. I would like to ask, Minister, what further revolutionary changes are planned in the area of public administration; what funds are planned to finance the newer amendments; how do you intend to reconcile the commitment to maintain the previously funded acquis with the new ones. And finally, please reassure me, Minister, that the result of the planned changes will not be the repayment of the aid spent in previous years, as we have seen in some of the unfortunate cases, and that the Hungarian taxpayers' money will not be damaged again, and the transformations that you may have... [[John Lazarus stands up.]] Thank you so much for wanting to answer so quickly, I've already stopped. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-80	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the Minister in response.
u2014-10-27-81	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Mr President, Dear Parliament, The state reform that started with the Magyary programme in 2010 will indeed continue according to our intentions, but in my work as mayor, I have found that if you want to change something, you should not talk about large generalities, but should be a concrete, clear, clear change, rather in fewer places, but with the implementation of the less more and more principles, the more concrete thing should happen. At the same time, I would like to tell you what the purpose of this will be. President András Patyi will begin tomorrow, under the leadership of Professor András Patyi, the work of the State Reform Committee. The aim of this will be to examine whether the operation of the Hungarian State is an advantage for taxpayers or a disadvantage. There are many entrepreneurs in the work of their representatives who say that the state makes it difficult for them and does not make it easier for them to prosper, to access the market, and to achieve economic results. As a private person, when they meet the state, Hungarian voters also often feel that the state is interfering with their lives, not leaving them alone, and, if necessary, not helping, but making their lives difficult. It is worth starting with a state reform, a reduction in bureaucracy that helps people, contributes to a more orderly resolution of matters and significantly improves the country's competitiveness. Who and how they lead the state, who and how they organise the country contribute greatly to whether a country is competitive or not. I think that the fact that in the middle of the two thousand years Hungary fought its way down to the last place in the countries of Central Europe in the competitiveness ranking was largely related to the leaders of the state, the governance model of the state and the state's help or ease of economic growth conditions. We believe that it is an absolute economic competitiveness issue, and in economic growth it can represent serious percentages of how the country works, what bureaucracy is, what regulation is, what regulation is like. In this way, we are trying to make the situation simpler and clearer. There are 198 districts in the country, can I tell you that we plan to do so over the next decades? And we are pleased to note that no political force in the municipal election campaign questioned the legitimacy of the districts, the existence of districts? Perhaps, we can say that the Hungarian administration will be based on walking. Does this mean that the services of the state that we all receive in exchange for our taxes as citizens should be public education, public security and other public benefits? Is that what public administration is like? It's basically to be organised from a walking base. Therefore, we believe that service departments equipped with the most modern infocommunication technology and the most high quality, serving customers should also be organised on a walking basis in so-called government windows. We will do this with EU money, and we will close the programme by the end of 2015. In 198 districts, there will be about 260 steering windows. This is indeed less than what we originally promised, but after three years we see the customer's turnover, the client's burden is how much business needs to be handled. However, in the government windows that are under way, we would like to see not only the state providing, but also, where appropriate, postal services, banking services combined, and the service state nature, so that in one place, at one time, the citizens can take care of as much as possible, this would be the biggest challenge. In addition, we need to look at legislation in parallel, which usually makes our lives difficult. We are planning a great reduction in bureaucracy, where it makes sense and needs to be, with the involvement of society, to put into a great debate. I'd be happy to talk about it the next time you ask. We will not reduce or ask for back the number of existing steering windows and the support of existing steering windows. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[15.20]]
u2014-10-27-82	I will ask Congressman Szilágyi if he will accept the ministerial answer.
u2014-10-27-83	Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your answer, but it says a lot that after four years, after four years of two-thirds governance, we can still hear what plans you intend to implement in this country. [[János Lázár: At the age of 39, I still have plans!]] I asked you a specific question, and on this particular issue it was also stated whether the European Union funds spent on the Magyary programme should be repaid because at this moment you want to reduce the plan that it was. So that would be one of the most important questions. The other, Mr Secretary, should not forget that the functioning of the public administration and the quality of service affect all citizens of our country. Also remember that if we try to make any changes to the system, based on the practical experience of previous years, it will result in a longer to shorter deceleration of the system and a lower level of service. So after four years, we're talking about what plans we want to implement, or we're already at the point of what we can draw from these things...? I feel that I can't accept your answer, and I still haven't been told how much money we're going to have to repay. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-84	Thank you very much. The answer was not accepted by the congressman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: by 104 votes in favour, 35 against and without abstention, the Parliament accepted the ministerial reply. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr Zoltán Lukács, MSZP. You have the floor in a one-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The faction of the Hungarian Socialist Party considers that the House did not act according to the regulations in force at the time of Mr.Lajos Korózs' interpellation, so I propose that Lajos Korózs receive the floor and let him explain his interpellation. I base this on the fact that the house rules are 123. §, after 10-12 seconds, he was taken off the floor and then asked the Secretary of State if he wished to respond to the interpellation. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] After ten seconds, it is not possible to judge whether, in the second minute of a three-minute interpellation, the representative will be on the subject or not. Therefore, if the floor was taken from him after ten seconds, on the one hand, it is not possible to judge whether he is speaking on the basis of the rules, and on the other hand, the Secretary of State is most likely, since after ten seconds he was taken from the Member, he could not decide whether he could or would respond to that interpellation. [[It's constant noise. ? The president's ringing the bell. ? Mihály Balla: Cut him off! ? János Lázár: Experts to MSZP!]] We therefore ask that the word be given to Mr Lajos Korózs for interpellation. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-86	Thank you very much. I ask you, honourable Member, and with respect to the group of the MSZP,... [[Zoltán Lukács towards Jobbik: Who are you guys with? ? Dóra Dúró: We're with the house rules. ? The president's ringing the bell. ? Intruders from the Fidesz line:...are talking to you!]] Honourable Congressman, I'd like to tell you, if you'll listen, thank you very much. So I would ask the Member to turn to the committee on the points of order, and they will decide what to do. [[Zoltán Lukács: I will!]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Mr Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Do you intend to investigate, Minister? It's an address. [[It's constant noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public service. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-10-27-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since Secretary of State Kontra can't or won't, he can't answer, so I'd rather wait for Minister. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-88	Thank you very much. The Minister must reply at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Gábor Bellozó has the floor.
u2014-10-27-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In the last four years, the state has practically liquidated itself in the tiny villages. [[It's constant noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] There are no cases to deal with, older care is not solved, most of the public services have been closed at all. There is no work and, if there is a job, Minister, there is such a pitifully low wage paid in these villages that it is not enough to earn a minimum living in the villages. We have recently tabled a proposal to reduce VAT on basic foods. The essence of this was to leave more money at least for the poorest by reducing the price of basic foods that play a very large role in their consumer basket, while at the same time bleaching the food industry by reducing the VAT on this product to 5 per cent. The Fidesz faction voted off this proposal here in Parliament without debate, and then later we see government officials being banned from the United States because they are likely to be involved in VAT fraud and are taking public money away by acts of corruption. [[Adam Mirkóczki takes over the notary seat.]] You have developed a system of land leases where the land lease system is not used to develop a local economy, but for selected small kings, while the local people can go as maids and maintain the public works system, in which they spend 200 billion forints of budget money to finance public work, while in the new EU budget cycle it would be possible to finance both wages and the establishment of an institution from EU funds for the development of the social economy. Mr. Secretary. The system of collecting the vote seems to have been considered important, and it has been properly built. My question would be why they refuse to do so for the voters whose votes were collected with this vulnerable system. Please respond.
u2014-10-27-90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-10-27-91	Thank you very much. It is very important to have the confidence that you have raised on this issue, my fellow Member. For example, after 20 years, I have just gained the trust of the voters in the town of Mako together with the local Fidesz group, led by the socialist mayor for twenty years, and now the Fidesz candidate has won the voter's trust, and mayors and Fidesz mayors from the 19 settlements of my constituency have won the trust. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Not in Szeged!]] So it is really important that we need not only the vote, but also action to improve the quality of life. Could the conditions in the MSZP fraction be a little confusing? Are you sure this faction is falling apart? Because a few weeks ago, my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi asked me to be accountable for why I support the countryside and not Budapest. Now you're asking me why I don't support the country. It would be nice if you asked me to ask me a question, as far as the capital of the countryside is concerned. One calls to the capital, one to the countryside. [[There are constant interruptions from the lines of the MSZP. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: A minister only understands two topics.]] In the case of food VAT, let me draw your attention to the development of this food tax. Who accepted 27 percent VAT in 2004-2006 and 2008, three times? Whose idea was this? Which political party... [[Dr. András Schiffer: Then they took it back!]] Indeed, my fellow Member Schiffer, there was a VAT reduction in 2005, and it was raised back in 2006. That's true. 2004-2006-2008, the Hungarian Socialist Party in its prime, in its prime? Luckily, the country's been through this, and fortunately, it survived? That's when they invented 27 percent VAT. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It was never 27 percent!]] Where were you, my dear fellow Member, at that time? Why didn't you stop this in MSZP? Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that HUF 1200 billion is available for rural development over the next seven years, which will essentially be achieved in agriculture with the aim of creating jobs that the Member has requested. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Zoltán Lukács: Wow, what a steal it will be again!]]
u2014-10-27-92	I'll give the floor to Congressman Belling in return.
u2014-10-27-93	Mr. Secretary. This bullshit you've been saying here is a waste of the country people. You know, Minister, there are 750,000 children living in poverty and exclusion. The last 25 years have proven that if the state does not intervene directly here, we will not be able to solve the problem of these people. Mr. Secretary. Is it true that you do not want to reduce the 27 percent of VAT because this is how the actors involved can steal the most? Mr. Secretary. You spend 200 billion on public work, instead of doing this with EU money, while you want to tax the Internet because you don't have enough budget revenue. [[15.30]] I call on you to withdraw the proposal for an Internet tax [[There's a loud scoop in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 'Cause there's no reason to bring this in. Let's go public with those on the corruption list. Minister, do something for the villages instead of new taxes and further dismantling the countryside.
u2014-10-27-94	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder shall be granted to Minister.
u2014-10-27-95	Dear fellow Member, If we could get the paper you like to read from, then maybe we can answer it. At least give me the paper when the interpellation hasn't been submitted. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Because I can see that you have failed to memorize these three difficult questions, so everyone reads them in paper. Then maybe it's worth making this fantastic paper public. [[Anita Herring: Do you have an answer?]] Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, of course I'll answer. We have reached an agreement with Deutsche Telekom worth 130 billion forints in order to provide 3 million 600 thousand households with broadband internet access in 2018, and these households will have the opportunity to use services, and now many of them have no option at all. So this government proves with this act that it creates the opportunity for rural people not to migrate, to thrive in the village where they were born, and to try to live there, and not to be forced to migrate. For the countryside, the capacity to preserve the region will be the biggest challenge of the next 4-5 years. To that end, we will be happy to work with you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-96	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Which is the real face of Fidesz? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I'll ask him if he'll accept the response.
u2014-10-27-97	Mr President, given the importance of this matter, I would like to wait for Prime Minister to answer this question. [[John Lazarus: Right, right! It's important.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-98	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question:. Eastern opening or rather opening an Eastern bank account is the Minister's aim? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-27-99	As to what kind of foreign interests Péter Szijjártó's wealth growth may result from a hundred million-dollar scale, I think Minister should make a personal statement about it, so I would wait for him to carry out his urgent public tasks here. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-100	Thank you very much. The Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Also, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. After the Chinese-type censorship of the World Wide Web, will they declare war on all Internet users? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister SemjenZsolt to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-27-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Since there is no government waiting for us to increase the rent, I think that we should not wait for Viktor Orbán, so I would accept it. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-10-27-102	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Mr. President Novak.
u2014-10-27-103	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to find out what you and the government have to say about a squeaky statement from two of your fellow Members in Fidesz. The first was soon Gábor Kubatov, although he had not spoken in this cycle, and he did not bother to speak here even once in the past four years. [[John Lazarus: Is this bad or good?]] Speaking of wages and salaries, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, may I quote your most famous, most famous speech, leaking from the most read right-wing news portal, the Speaker of the House has made it unattainable here, but I have carefully pre-recorded this one sentence that Gábor Kubatov said in his famous, leaked recording: Viktor Orbán does not really understand computer science, we have now made a lot of progress, because, for example, he can receive, send text messages, and do you know the difference between fax and e-mail? Says Gábor Kubatov, party director of Fidesz, on the recording released in 2010. However, we bettermen do not consider it sufficient progress to say that Viktor Orbán can already receive fax or e-mail. I'm interested to know what you're saying, who knows you better: does Viktor Orbán have a smartphone? Can you even open an Internet site in a browser? Do you know what Interneting is? Why does Viktor Orbán wish to declare war? After all, according to the information leaked, it was his idea personally to punish this world away from him with such a punishment. The other Zsolt Nyitrai's famous statement in 2008, with which I can agree far from the point of view. The Internet is a genre of freedom, not these prevailing trends in the world, to tax the Internet, but to make it more free, more accessible to all our countrymen. That's what he said in 2008 in opposition when the MSZP wanted to introduce the Internet tax, that's what Fidesz said then. And what do you say today? What are you saying to Zsolt Nitrai today, or are you going to initiate an ethical procedure against him within your party for having such a view? Or maybe even today? represent him? I would like your opinion on this, and in particular on the introduction of the free basic internet proposed by Jobbik. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2014-10-27-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, to be honest, I do not think that Viktor Orbán's smartphone is the subject of the Parliament, the extent to which he uses or does not use smartphones or texts or texts. I would therefore rather address the public interest issue. The point is that the government is determined to aim at reducing income-type taxes in parallel with increasing the role of consumption-type taxes. And since the role of electronic communications has increased in recent years compared to the traditional telephone service, it is necessary to consider this in order to involve Internet-type communication in the burden-sharing. It can be seen that this trend is projected that the tax base for a taxed voice service, the duration of traditional conversations, will decrease even further in the longer term, and this will result in an increase in the use of Internet services. Consequently, what is excluded from telecommunications should be included in the budget for the Internet service. An important aspect is that the telecom tax allows for simple taxation, a small number of taxpayers, these are telecommunications operators, and thus the cost of taxation is also low. This measure is therefore closely linked to the government's tax policy so far, with the current target group for the extension of telecommunications tax partially covering public burdens [[Zoltán Lukács: We ask for this paper.]] the telecommunications sector, which has already been involved, which has the ability to make a greater contribution to maintaining Hungary's budgetary balance. [[János Lázár: I propose a paper exchange between the parties.]] It follows, however, that if I look at the country's budgetary aspects, [[Zoltán Lukács: He doesn't even know what he's talking about.]] It's hard to imagine why they think we're not collecting consumer-type taxes, and instead you're suggesting we collect income-type taxes. I think that is exactly what this measure is preparing. [[Noise, the president's ringing.]] so that income tax can be as low as possible in Hungary. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This is not consumption. ? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] What is it?
u2014-10-27-106	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Mr President Novak.
u2014-10-27-107	Well, I'm very sorry that you're reading a pre-written answer to an immediate question that has not been submitted in advance, which is written here in advance, Deputy Prime Minister. It would have been easier if you'd given it to me, and, by the way, you'd answer the question that I've only formulated here, which you didn't know in advance. I don't think it's the devil's idea that yes, the XXI. In the first century, a prime minister should have a smartphone, or he can handle it. Or if you do not know and are stuck at the level that the Fidesz party director said that Viktor Orbán knows only what the difference between fax and e-mail is, if you are really at this level of computing, then do not make an opinion, do not condemn Internet users, do not want to tax this world. [[15.40]] I would be very pleased if you would also give your opinion on Zsolt Nyitrai's very precise position, because it seems that what was formulated in 2008 you are no longer happy to talk about. And I would like it to be in writing, but we can finally find a response to the fact that the free basic internet, which Jobbik has repeatedly proposed over the last few years, is finally being taken into account and implemented in some form, as has been done in the case of advertising tax, from which basic free internet services would otherwise be feasible. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! ? A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-108	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Deputy Prime Minister.
u2014-10-27-109	Mr President, once again, the fact is that just because someone can't sing can still be a great music critic who knows about the opera house and the opera genre and an opinion on the arias. So, just because a prime minister is texting or not texting doesn't mean that, as the country's manager, he can tell the Ministry of Economy very well, and he can propose legislation on how the budget's role should turn out. The problem with your question is that you are removing this issue from the budgetary balance. The fact is that if telecommunications taxes are supported, then telecommunications, communication that is made available from telecommunications to the Internet, are not supported. Moreover, it is quite clear that this entails a reduction in income-type taxes. I therefore believe that for you, who are always taxing various multi- and other service providers, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] They were in favour of this proposal, so that no one could withdraw. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Then cut back and don't cut any more taxes. Intercom from the lines of the MSZP: Transferred to the consumer!]] from taxes of the type of consumption. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-110	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Róbert Benedek Sallai, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I will ask the Member if he will accept the person who is responding.
u2014-10-27-111	The best! Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-112	Yes, then you have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-113	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, To be honest, I'm once again having a professional question like this, which I would like to see more clearly, and I don't see any political provocation in this. A year ago, the May Other Politics warned the Hungarian government that the scandal about the outbreak of tax and VAT claims should be better reviewed, more attention should be paid, and the fact that the past governments have turned a blind eye to thousands of billion-dollar VAT frauds, regardless of their party position. It is now a well-known fact for the public that trading companies travel food on paper across Slovak or Romanian borders, while no VAT is paid for it, and supermarket chains sell products affected by VAT fraud. Although not as high-quality political leaders as in Hungary, it is said that the state called the United States is also a significant factor in world politics. He claims that what András Horváth said earlier, the authorities and the government in Hungary are not doing enough to stop the theft of public funds. As I understand it, it is said that with the knowledge of the NAV government circles, it overlooks more than a thousand billion forints of VAT fraud in the tax background of a circle in a privileged position. I understand that the government is still trying to find out what this American scandal is, but that's why all the corruption is wrong, because it always comes up when it comes to which case it is, which corruption case it is. I don't even know what's behind this case, but I don't really understand where the NAV lady is, that she's not here to give answers, that she's not in front of the press. These VAT fraud cases are now ringing into the world political scene, Hungary is once again not in a favourable position, while the multitude of public funds, thousands of billions, would be our common goal, not to do so, but we do not understand that we are hoping for a little now that Kehi will be able to release its capacity after the Norwegians' screening, in case there is a chance [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] it would also scan the activities of the NAV. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-114	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, If I understand your words correctly, you're treating it as a fact that the banning of these six people, who we don't even know who, we don't really know why. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Who doesn't know?]] , associated with certain VAT fraud. Compared to this, this US agent, who now has spoken more than once a day, says something quite different. First of all, he says that banning him in the United States is not a public matter. Secondly, he says that if this happens, America's internal affairs, but if this happens, it may not happen for something that may be a criminal offence in Hungary. It is in America, but it is not in Hungary. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What is it? ? Intercoms from Jobbik: Just an example!]] I think you've gone a little too far with this VAT fraud, because it's also possible that these people, for example, should we say? Like you're playing with thoughts, do I play with thoughts? In the course of their activities, they defended the interests of Hungary, which, by the way, violates the interests of the United States, and the United States does not give any information about it because it is fully aware of the fact that, by the way, these people, whom we now anonymously refer to, who are mocked and yelled at by opposition representatives, otherwise they did this for the benefit of Hungary. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Jesus!]] And this is what the United States gave you. [[Zoltán Lukács: These are serious words! ? Interviews from Jobbik's ranks: Heroes' Eve!]] So I wouldn't go that far on these issues. [[Nándor Gúr: Don't attack America! Wait a minute.]] until the United States officially informs the Government of Hungary. If you inform him, we'll start investigating the case from there. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. ? Dr. András Schiffer: Let's order a closed session and say it.]]
u2014-10-27-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Sallai has one minute to rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-117	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply. You're not gonna inform him? They won't even welcome our Secretary of State. They won't take us to talk to us. They say it's their home affairs, let's find out what. Are you saying that this may have been a hero in Hungary? I refer to this in his words, the political situation has changed a lot in a week, but we will find out who these people are and what they have done, and together with Jobbik and the MSZP they will propose to them various Republic Crosses if they represent the interests of the country in such a way. But if they don't tell us, how do we know that? How are we supposed to respect their officials if we don't know what's behind this? Obviously, we're trying to put together information from the press. If you'd give me straight answers and you'd tell me clearly what this is about, I wouldn't have to guess, and I wouldn't have to ask questions and hold you up in your precious time. I'm forced to do this because we can't see clearly, we can't get clear answers. The second week has passed, and we'd like to see what's behind this case. One thing is certain: the VAT fraud case that András Horváth is freaking out is very much in line with this claim that leading civil servants in Hungary wanted to give discounts [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Unlawful American actors. That's what we'd like to see clearly. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-118	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have one minute to rejoin me.
u2014-10-27-119	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Do I understand you correctly? You just said you didn't know anything. At the beginning of your one-minute answer, you said you didn't know anything, so let's help you, let's give you information. [[Dr. András Schiffer: We don't, but you do!]] We have a common goal to know something. At the end of the day, he claims that VAT fraud has something to do with it. You decide which platform you're going to be on, that you know something, and then you tell us this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: You know. It's up to you. ? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Let's not get ahead of ourselves. ? Dr. András Schiffer: Answer me! We want names!]] share it with us with evidence, or you can't. If you can't, then don't blame the government or the NAV or any person. That's what I'm asking you to do. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Then sign.]] As far as VAT fraud is concerned, if someone has done so in the last 20 years to find out about VAT fraud and to reduce it, this is precisely the government. I'll give you two examples briefly. Reverse VAT, extension of the reverse VAT institution and introduction of the cash register [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] So don't charge this government, this NAV, with VAT fraud. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Cseresnyés, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: the real wages are rising. How does the improving labour market strengthen economic growth? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] The congressman nods, he accepts the person of the responder. You have the floor, Congressman Cherry.
u2014-10-27-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Employment growth has increased from 2010 onwards, suggesting that government measures will increasingly have a positive impact on labour market developments. To give just one example, in terms of last year, the number of employees increased by nearly 170 thousand compared to last year, a significant part of which could be placed in the competitive sphere. However, not only did the number of people who worked and paid taxes increase, but also their earnings. According to the latest data from KSH, real earnings were 2.9 percent higher than a year ago, with the average consumer price level unchanged, and 5.3 percent higher without public employment. [[15.50]] This represents 4.7 per cent for businesses, 6.8 per cent for the budget and 7.2 per cent for non-profit organisations. The real value of the actions increased by 2 percent in August due to a reduction in the overhead and a record of 30 years due to a very low inflation rate. In the last year, the earnings of those involved in public employment have also increased. An example of this is the teacher's wage increase, which can be estimated at nearly 170 billion forints last year, the government spent nearly that amount of money to raise the wages of teachers, which means that real income in education has increased by 18.7 percent. The increase in jobs and the steady rise in real earnings have a positive impact on stabilising the income situation of the population and also contributes to an increase in domestic consumption demand. I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, how economic growth is strengthened by the improving labour market. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-10-27-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is true that the number of employees in Hungary has been constantly over 4 million for ten months now. According to the latest available data, 4 million 158 thousand people are working in Hungary, which is equivalent to more than 400 thousand people since the change of government. This is what more people currently live on than in 2010 when they change government, and these people do not live on aid, but earn employment income, which is significantly higher than aid. This naturally affects the recovery of domestic demand and stimulates the economy. [[Dr. András Schiffer stands up and intervenes.]] If you would please, Mr President, because it is now intolerable that you are constantly trying to disturb me in my answer, because you may not like the result of the government, and you want to express it this way.
u2014-10-27-124	Go on, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Schiffer, I respectfully ask that you... [[Dr. András Schiffer sits down.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-125	Thank you very much. I think it is absolutely welcome what has happened in the competition sector, because according to Eurostat's latest data, Hungary has managed to reduce unemployment to the greatest extent among the 28 Member States. Over the last year, the number of people seeking work has become 100,000 fewer, and the unemployment rate is well below the EU average, which is 7.6 percent, and it is true that the increase in real earnings in 2013 exceeds expectations of 2.6 percent, so it obviously affects demand, as I said, so it has an impact on economic growth. Overall, both employment and real income have a positive impact on economic growth.
u2014-10-27-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Cherry has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I asked you this question because my personal experience shows what was then confirmed by the numbers of the KSH, while I was preparing for the question, and what you said, those numbers also support the personal experience I gained during my conversations with people. Retail workers say that retail sales have stabilised or have increased significantly in many cases, especially in the food industry, and entrepreneurs with whom I have spoken personally have said and are planning to make some sort of development in the near future. This means that the number of people employed will also increase, and the statistics that you have said and which I have found support these opinions. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-128	Thank you very much. Congressman Tallai has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, the aim is clearly to increase employment and achieve sustainable growth, and Hungary can deliver outstanding results in the European Union in the first half of 2014. The second quarter growth rate is 3.9 percent. Sustainable economic growth can be achieved as a cross-cutting effect of several economic processes, so the government will do everything in its power to provide employment-enhancing tools, support, and EU funds will also be subject to an increase in economic performance, as 60 percent of the resources will serve it. We believe that in this cycle Hungary can achieve much better performance in terms of economic growth. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question with the title of "Less Cafeteria, Higher Tax." The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the Secretary of State's identity.
u2014-10-27-131	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2014-10-27-132	You have the floor, Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2014-10-27-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Taking into account the processes, I see that, although structural changes are being made in terms of extra-wage benefits, they do not seem to occur, but they do, in terms of content, public burdens, and this is the most important thing, i.e. the increase in the public burden on benefits. After 1,19 percent of the value of benefits, employers pay 16 percent and 27 percent eho. After out-of-wage benefits, the burden will be higher than 51 percent in the future. In terms of benefits other than wage benefits, this is already 66 percent, let's say, the service car, the service phone, group life insurance, and examples could still be drawn up in this respect. The cafeteria, therefore, seems to appear in the future that it will be more burdensome for employers and less profitable for workers, accompanied by a quasi-wage reduction. While the Secretary of State says nice stories about the processes that are taking place, combined with delayed statistics, while the number of people living below the minimum level is 4.5 million in Hungary, while you can talk about how gross and net average earnings have turned out, when the vast majority of people, working people, have access to less money than they already had access to. Now, the point is, for example, in cases such as the Elisabeth voucher, the Széchenyi-rest card or the school start-up grants, in 2014, there was a 35-36 percent public space, now 51 percent in the next period. What does this look like, Mr. Secretary? How can you face this? Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, tax philosophy has changed. From 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government has been following something other than its predecessors, your government, because during your time, it was the theory of taxation that all taxes should be high. But our government says otherwise. He says that the tax on income earned should be reduced, whether it is the individual, the income tax recipient or the company, the rate of corporation tax should decrease. At the same time, higher consumption and higher tax revenues for consumption and turnover taxes must be achieved in order to maintain the balance of the budget. It is true that it is a philosophy to compare the burden of extra-wage benefits in addition to the wage burden. The government's principle is to bring the two tax burdens closer together. The burden of income earned as a wage and the extra-wage benefits cannot be separated from each other. In the current change, however, the extra-wage allowance is still much more favourable, so the cafeteria, the system of benefits, than it would otherwise be received as a wage. So it is clear that convergence is a clear goal, and overall, the benefit to people, the wage or the non-wage system should be low, so there should be a single-key system and a lower social security contribution rate. This is where the government strives. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.00]]
u2014-10-27-136	Thank you very much, I give the floor to the Member for a rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State, the policy that you are pursuing will lead to corruption in Hungary, to widen, to the creation of corruption lists, to ban people from here and from here and from there. And you don't even want to face it. The policy that has practically set a world peak in terms of general consumption tax is 27 percent, which is why it is worth it for those who want to gain a competitive advantage over decent businesses to participate in fraud processes that you are not a barrier to where you should be, God do not give, even being part of this process, at least failing to do what should be done in this respect. Is this process reinforced by what it is? Don't I want to get deep in it? can also be seen with regard to the Internet tax. That's your policy. They're talking nonsense, and they're not for the good of the people. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-138	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-139	I understand we've come from a higher tax on cafeteria to VAT fraud. [[Interview from the Fidesz benches: Serious intellectual achievement! ? János Lázár: You did well!]] It's all the way to the Internet station. What I can tell you is that we should be thinking more about why since 2010 the revenue from the budget has increased every year. Do you think it's because the economy hasn't whitened? [[Nándor Gúr: Because nowhere in the world is it as high as in Hungary!]] Otherwise, the numbers wouldn't have confirmed this, because it would have either stagnated or reduced revenue. I'll tell you a measure. The fact that the 172 thousand online cash registers have been introduced, which you protested at the same time, brings its results, and the result is that trade is clearing, the economy is clearing. [[Nándor Gúr: We object to the way you did it!]] That's definitely the goal. They don't want the public to know that there's some kind of VAT fraud system here. No, Congressman. The numbers show the exact opposite! [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]]
u2014-10-27-140	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "How long does the tax tsunami last? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2014-10-27-141	Mr President, Dear House, Today, we can say, another sac named the Internet Tax was the prime. It can also be seen that a very shameful statement has been made in this regard that this will not be passed on by the service providers, which you have imposed on the service providers. This was stated earlier in relation to different types of taxes. Let's look behind the numbers and look at this at the level of numbers at all. It can be seen that over a year and a half, due to the transaction fee, banking costs and the costs of bank users increased by 55 percent. It can also be seen that while your billboards show that we account for the banking system, revenues from financial services increased by HUF 121 billion in 2013 as a whole compared to 2012. So something didn't work out in your system, or it's just not true what they wrote on your billboards. I'm guessing the latter, but they're probably both true. You can see that this could still be an opposition accusation, but I would like to quote the analyst of the Hungarian National Bank, which you have often put on a pedestal. The analysis of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank shows that the 11 largest Hungarian banks passed on the transaction fee in full, and in households the transfer rate was not only higher than the transaction fee level, but also higher than the cash withdrawal, credit transfer and credit card payments. We don't say that, it's said by senior analysts whose opinions you use to base your alleged economic policy. You can see that in the meantime, a mass of separate taxes was cast, such as the completely pointless first-round telephone station, which was then raised in the second Varga package. Now we have the Internet tax, which has a market-destructive effect on Hungarian young people, Hungarian workers, and what is very serious, it also closes the growth prospects for Hungarian small entrepreneurs. The question therefore arises: where is the end of this tax tsunami, and whether the possible damages have been assessed at all. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-27-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-143	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, it must be stated that the Internet tax will not be paid by the consumer, but by the provider. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: My God, you do not believe this! ? Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Therefore, the operator will pay the burden resulting from the expansion of the telecommunications tax. This will have a ceiling, the amendment of which may already have been submitted by the Fidesz fraction. This will be 700 forints a month for private individuals, which will take any amount of gigabytes. In the case of legal persons or companies, i.e. non-individuals, the ceiling is HUF 5 000 per month. So if this is imposed on a public limited liability company with billions of dollars in revenue, you can imagine that this might be a big problem, there will be no big problem. I would like to say that the same hysteria was, by the way, both in terms of SMS and telephone transmitters. I don't know, do you feel that, for example, you have to pay this kind of tax? I don't think anyone in this country feels that such a tax exists at all. A total of HUF 47 billion of this tax was added to the budget in 2013, and the tax from the expansion of the telecommunications tax will amount to HUF 25 billion. That's half the transmitter. I think that it is a necessary and important decision by the government and then Parliament to extend the service tax on telecommunications. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-27-144	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2014-10-27-145	Mr President, Dear House, According to the Secretary of State, it is necessary and important to impose another type of tax, another tribute, because he claims that it will not be passed on. However, it should be noted that, in the course of the tax tsunami, you have imposed taxes on the following, or you intend to argue about imposing them this week, tomorrow. For example, the Erzsébet voucher, the Széchenyi card, the local season ticket, the school start-up allowance and the work catering will also be increased, now here this week, tomorrow. Then you dare to talk about whether a Member of Parliament will feel this burden? ! It's not your pay grade, it's not your pay grade. It's not your pay grade. It should be assumed that phone operators, banks and financial institutions will pass on everything to the last penny, as they did with the banking sector special tax and transaction tax. And in a hypocritical way, you do not even tell people that these dozens of tax types that have been brought into the public and dumped on Hungarian people will be paid by them, but refer to different providers. But you can see it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] that, in the meantime, real citizens, stakeholders, not only have not been consulted, let alone spoken, but do not understand their problems and their daily lives. [[Nándor Gúr: They don't care! ? A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-27-146	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-27-147	Thank you very much. We believe that these service providers, which in the past year have recorded a taxed profit of HUF 70-75 billion, will be able to bear and bear this very low level of telecommunications tax; as in other sectors, whether in the case of the bank tax, they were able to pay and manage, as a result the country was not left. [[16.10]] I think that Jobbik should decide what they're up to now. When we say he's a banker, he's on our side, or he's voting for it. When we say sectoral tax, sectoral tax, he also votes in favour. When we say transaction fees, he also votes for that. What we're talking about here is that we expect this sector to make 15 percent of its profits. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] take part in the burden of public service and pay the state. We ask that you support this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-27-148	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question: "Do you have any information that the strategic agreements or part of them have served the purpose of bringing less taxes into the budget in exchange for the support of private interests? It's an address. Minister of State has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to reply to his urgent public mission. I'm asking you if you'll accept the response. [[On Dr. Wind Bernadett's mark:]] It says yes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2014-10-27-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, it was most often the current Minister of Foreign Affairs, Péter Szijjártó, who gave his face to the strategic agreements concluded by the government, who negotiated with the selected companies, agreed with them on these special or special terms, and finally announced that these strategic agreements had been concluded. But by now, our knowledge of strategic partnership agreements has been enriched with new news and new information. In this context, however, the Hungarian government was subject to very serious accusations. If these accusations are true, then some have offered subsidies to foreign investors in exchange for a strategic agreement with the government, and some of the funds obtained will be returned to a designated foundation for bribes. This is how selected companies can be privileged if these news is true. But let me translate it into a little simpler words. This is about the fact that, according to the news, in exchange for tax incentives and even worse, tax controls should have been used to support close government organisations. [[János Lázár: Where did these news appear?]] But to put it even more simply, the news is that you should have paid less if more wandering into your private pockets. Secretary of State, I would like to believe that such things cannot happen in the 21st century. In Hungary of the century, however, I can find very little other explanation, as last time I had to sue the May Other Politics in order to find out exactly how much discount these companies have received in order to find out what the real balance sheet of strategic agreements is. You and the Ministries? I didn't go to one and not two? they simply removed the request that would have been about you being able to clarify yourself, for example, about these news. Secretary of State, I am asking you if you have any information that the agreements or part of them have served this purpose, i.e. that less taxes should be introduced into the budget in exchange for private interest support. Will you please tell me how much less tax has been paid as a result of these agreements? And I ask you, will you continue to stand up for the strategic partnership agreements? Thank you.
u2014-10-27-150	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2014-10-27-151	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that there are few people in this Chamber, perhaps in this country, who know more about strategic agreements than the Congresswoman. I think that only because I have had the opportunity to carry out extensive correspondence with the congresswoman on this subject in recent weeks, and I think that we have been going through all the details of the subject from one point to another. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to point out that, genrely, strategic agreements do not entail any legal obligation, do they not generate any legal consequences, so there is no opportunity to include in strategic agreements passages, items that would be about the contracting parties? whether it's the state, the government, or the company that has a strategic partnership? impose any legally binding advantage or action on the other. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and These agreements are fully transparent, these agreements are available on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs website. I think they're the ones? Let's just say, what? soft results that arise from these agreements, i.e. the fact that the companies concerned are creating more jobs in Hungary, and in this respect the balance sheet is relatively good, I can say that there has been an enormous increase in jobs created by these agreements than they have been eliminated; the fact that they are turning profits back into their activities in Hungary; the expansion of their Hungarian supplier network, all of them, is a consequence of these agreements that we can say that the system of strategic agreements is a true success story. With all due respect, Congresswoman, I would like to ask you to take account of the numbers. About 6,000 jobs created as a result of strategic agreements, as opposed to those lost. Congresswoman, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The congresswoman shall be rejoined.
u2014-10-27-153	Secretary of State, I have two problems. One is that you didn't answer the question. Are you aware or unaware of cases that could be read in the newspaper? We are here in the Hungarian Parliament, you have a mandate, I have a mandate. I have asked you a clear question, and I would like to know your position on this. The other thing is, look, I can't call something a success story because the government hasn't been able to say a sound sentence in a long time about why it's worth it to the country exactly. You can't answer that. The process is completely opaque, starting with which companies are selected to form the subject of a strategic agreement. You don't know who's a good multi or a bad multi in your eyes. I can't tell you that. And the other thing is, I'm sorry, but don't talk to me about transparency. On the basis of tax secrecy, they refused to give us access to tax incentives, even though a previous SAO statement states that this is not tax. That's why we're going to continue this conversation in court. But there is another part: do you or do you not know any practicalities that I just told you about? Thank you.
u2014-10-27-154	Thank you. The Secretary of State is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder.
u2014-10-27-155	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The opposition seems to extend the general speculation surrounding the US ban case to further areas. I can't give an opinion based on such general assumptions. Of course, we have no knowledge that such acts have occurred. If we had knowledge of them, we would have had them investigated; as we have repeatedly stated in the case of US ban cases, that the government cannot act without substantiated factual information, and that the competent authorities are unable to deal with alleged corruption cases. The result of these agreements is that it perfectly ensures the basic EU requirement of competition neutrality, against all claims. Once again, these texts are public and accessible, all 51 agreements are on our website, and we have also recommended them to the attention of a woman representing them on several occasions. And what is also an important consequence of these agreements is that the working groups that can effectively address the problems that arise between the government and these companies have stood up. This is a framework for cooperation that did not exist before for the purpose of maintaining jobs. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. It reeks of the whole country. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-27-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There has been a lot going on here today, but we haven't talked about a number of taxes that are planned to be introduced next year. Contrary to previous practice, it has not preceded any technical consultation on the new tax bill, which includes the extension of the product charge to other chemical products. We are talking here about essential cleaning and cleaning products and essential cosmetic products. The overhead costs of a family consist not only of food and utility bills, but also of a significant proportion of these products. We're talking about ordinary products. Meanwhile, all studies and surveys show that poverty in families is growing brutally in Hungary, while the government intends to introduce this type of tax. Every single speech I make, I'm going to give you the numbers that I'm going to give you right now. More than 170 thousand children from 0 to 17 years of age live in apartments where there are no toilets, nearly 136 thousand live in apartments where there are no showers or bathtubs, 197 thousand children live and learn in a dark apartment where there are no electricity, and 620 thousand children live in apartments where there are leaks every day and which are moldy. In the meantime, we're facing the fact that the country reeks of corruption. Have many of you asked me that question before? I'm gonna bet, too? When they want to answer who the people on the list of corruption are. Is it true that product prices are introduced for other chemical products because they no longer dare to raise 27 percent VAT, which is the highest in the EU? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[16.20]]
u2014-10-27-158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-10-27-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You were supposed to ask me a question, but instead you said the whole country stinks. If that's what you're asking, the answer is no. It doesn't stink, but something stinks in the MSZP. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] 'Cause after the eighth or tenth election, there's obviously some confusion, but they don't seem to be able to figure that out. This question has also shown that we have gone from child poverty to corruption, to product prizes and corruption. [[János Lázár: Product Award! ? Lajos Korózs: You steal money from the children.]] I think that if you follow and appreciate the government's work and watch where this country started in 2010, how many unemployed people were, how much employment, how much growth, how much people got taxed, how much tax was, and how the family tax relief turned out. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Children have been deceived.]] I am sure that such statements and questions will not be said in Parliament. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2014-10-27-161	You know, Mr. Secretary, it's like you don't even live in this country, but a lot of the Fidesz benches? We can say that. [[János Lázár: Where do you live?]] Interestingly, you don't face the poverty that we face every day. I brought up this tax principle because this tax will have a terrible impact on Hungarian families. Yes! In the meantime, I'm saying that you reek of corruption because we face the fact that you steal billions every day? Public money! ? billions of Hungarian taxpayers' money. [[John Lázár: Whoa! Slow down. Slow down. Slow down. ? Noise.]] Here in this Parliament, after nearly three or four hours, we did not get answers to the questions that voters are most interested in today. It would have been better if you'd paid attention yesterday, because there would have been a sequel. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-162	Thank you very much. András Tállai's answer will follow in a minute.
u2014-10-27-163	Mr President, In my answer, I would like to give an example from my constituency. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] There are many Roma inhabitants in the village called Nail, more than 80 percent of the settlement is Roma. The municipality voted 82 percent for Fidesz. There is only one reason for this: real poverty programmes have been launched in the settlement. The Municipality of Nail has won 150 million HUF to give 80 people a profession, 15 social workers help solve the problems of the settlement and the people living there. If you were to pay attention and know what programmes have been launched over the past four years and their implementation is now under way, you would not be making accusations, but would start dissecting the real problem. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was not accusing you, Mr. Secretary of State.]] He was accusing me of saying that this government stole billions. I resent that, and I refuse. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? János Lázár: Estimated data!]]
u2014-10-27-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to simple questions. Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. As a result of the abolition of the National Labour Office, labour and safety inspectors will also be on the street? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2014-10-27-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the issue of the Hungarian Gazette, issue 79? Just so you don't have to look for Secretary of State? Neither you, your minister, nor any other secretary of state in your environment have said a single word about what will happen to these people, labour and safety inspectors and other people working within the framework of the labour market service, while you are eliminating the National Labour Office. The problem, Mr. Secretary, is I tell you in advance, is it the new labor code? Do you know what you gave birth to in 2012? It creates countless situations that bring with it an abundance of violations. If I watch only now, the first quarter of this year, the proportion of employers and employers who are being investigated is still far above 50 percent. It doesn't matter what we're talking about, black work, how to pay wages or even the issue of freedom or working time and wages. The detection of irregularities cannot be done by others, labour and labour safety inspectors, obviously if they have the means to do so, and if they do, if they do exist. It doesn't seem important to you, because you absolutely don't care what happens to these people while you're doing it? Would you like me to signal it? Have these people fallen by some 40 percent in the countryside? You mean the job, job security inspectors? its share in recent years. 40 percent! You know, the result is that this year, for example, the number of fatal accidents has increased by 60 percent. It doesn't matter to you, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. I'd just like to ask you, are those restructurings, if you can call them, which are taking place? or terminations? Where they lead. What help can be provided if needed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] These people? When are you gonna tell them what's gonna happen to them? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-10-27-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to reassure you: labour inspectors do not need to, but I would like to assure you that this profession, which you are now mentioning, is important to the Hungarian government, as it has been important in the past four years. Indeed, there have been changes in the system, and perhaps the biggest transformation is there to see how the number of county labour inspectors and the number of national central supervisors has evolved. In your day, were there really 600 central personnel and 400 workers in the field? In quotes? , in full power. We have indeed turned this ratio upside down and put the emphasis on county organizations, because that is where the work is basically to be done. So the work they are doing is very important, and it will also be important in the next period. The location of the national central body is practically a technical issue. The most important question is whether labour inspectors know and want to do their job with appropriate skills and skills. I think the answer to that is a clear yes. Are we, the government, responsible for implementing the necessary infrastructure conditions and structural changes in the next period? Which you mentioned, by the way? For example, the number of fatal accidents will be significantly reduced in the next period, and many irregularities, which, even in the field of black employment, are truly traceable, can be considered, not in the last four years, but in the last decades, can be combated effectively with supervisors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-168	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Another bastion of psychiatric care can fall? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2014-10-27-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Gálfi Béla Nonprofit Kft. operates the 462 concubine, one of the largest psychiatric inpatient institutions in the country, based in Pomazi. Contrary to the usual operation at national level, the Institute is not owned by Gyemszi, but by Hungarian National Property Management Ltd., which exercises ownership and supervisory rights. He's a maintenance man. But it's even weirder that it's nonprofit. is headed by Zoltán Kamarás, who has been heard several times in connection with the privatisation of Malév, and whose name is already intertwined with MNV Zrt. in the case of the Post Office. Was it the management of wealth or the incompetence that led to certain classes or perhaps the whole institution waiting for closure? [[16.30]] In May 2014, the official medical service carried out an administrative investigation in several departments and identified shortcomings that would result in the removal, reduction of capacity and, ultimately, the termination of the institution's care. The institution has asked the chief of staff to suspend the procedure for six months, which the chief of staff has done, but this deadline will expire shortly. Employees are of the opinion that so far the management of the institution has not addressed the problems, which will allow the institution to close or work at reduced capacity within 3 weeks. As a result, patients are on the street in hundreds of sizes and the sudden unemployment of those working there. It seems that the health government is back on track because it is not possible for a trust to supervise a health institution. Here, if the government does not take immediate action to keep the Gálfi Béla psychiatric institution alive, it is playing with the mental health of hundreds of people, the security of the population, and who knows what kind of financial interests. I hereby call on the minister, the leaders responsible for managing the national wealth, in line with the employees of the Béla Galfi institution, to stop the destruction of the institution and not to endanger the care and livelihood of the patients. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-10-27-170	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-10-27-171	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to reassure both you and the public that, contrary to your statement, the future functioning of the institution is not in any danger. No reduced capacity is to be expected, and no patient should be afraid of getting out on the street. In addition, there are maintenance measures at MNV Zrt. during the preparation phase that contribute to ensuring the sustainability of operations in the medium term. As you mentioned, Galfi Bála Healer and Rehabilitation Nonprofit Kft. for several decades, it has been providing care and social care for people who have been in and out of work. The institution did not become one of the institutions maintained by EMMI or GYEMSZI, it was not taken over here. The hospital is the trustee's organization, as you said, MNV Zrt., but the professional supervision is, of course, carried out by EMMI. The institution has significantly reduced its operating costs in the three years since the current Executive Director's mandate, and has been able to ensure the hospital's operation unchanged and has no debts. The functioning of health and social services institutions and their professional activities are controlled by competent and competent bodies in the interest of sector neutrality, ensuring the adequacy of public services by means of public authorities. So it's nonprofit. the health and social services operated by the relevant authorities, not by the trustee, i.e. MNV Zrt. is under your supervision, as you suggested in your speech. In April 2014, as you mentioned, the Office of Official Medicine, together with all other medical institutions dealing with psychiatric and addictological rehabilitation in the country, carried out an investigation here, but this was not a special investigation, but a general examination of the minimum conditions. The OTH suspended its inspection procedure at the hospital's request, and during the six months of suspension, the hospital's management had the opportunity to remedy the deficiencies. I would like to say once again that the closure of the hospital did not occur as a sanction in relation to the deficiencies identified by the OTH during the verification procedure. This means that there is no threat to the continued functioning of the service provider, that patients are not transferred to another service provider, that security of supply is not at risk. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and István Ikotity, representatives of LMP, want to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: It's an address. Based on the view, István Ikotity wishes to ask the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The role of vocational training in the work-based economy in Orbán is increasingly being outlined by the government. Its purpose is obviously to adapt the entire vocational education and training system to the needs of the multinationals lured into the country, serving them with a disposable, cheap, trained workforce. Half of the unemployed have long been qualified. But he can't find a job because he doesn't have modern knowledge or the right skills. Students in vocational training and vocational schools produce the worst academic results every year, with the highest school dropout rate among them. The level of knowledge of students in the profession is far from that of other school types. The time of vocational education and training for three years, reducing the number of hours of public knowledge to one third of all lessons, has made it even worse for those taking part in vocational education and training. After completing their studies, they may be able to work with companies providing practical training, but they are in a lot of trouble if they have to change jobs. We've seen, just like the last year, how many multi-company companies have moved away looking for cheaper labor. The biggest problem for large companies lobbying in the government may be that, in addition to their multi-billion-dollar state aid, they do not receive an immediate labour force trained for a given work phase in a package, but it is not certain that the whole training system should be based on their needs. Is this really what the work-based economy means to the government? To provide the government with a single-use, replaceable workforce? In addition to the creation of training to better meet labour market needs, they say that they want to solve the main problem of vocational training. How will training be of better quality and how do they want to create conditions for SMEs to receive young apprentices? Thank you.
u2014-10-27-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-10-27-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You yourself must have noticed that the labour market, the Hungarian labour market, has undergone a substantial transformation in recent years. Today, and especially in the coming years, the main question will not be whether or not the labour force is available, but whether it is available in sufficient numbers and quality. So the question is, one of the greatest opportunities and obstacles to economic growth could be whether we can give an appropriate answer to this question. With professional training, the odds are much better for the location than they are without it. Look at the statistics: there are now about 400,000 registered job seekers in the register, more than 200,000 of which have no professional qualifications, and not for many years. So if the question of whether or not skilled, well-prepared professionals are needed, the answer is clearly yes. And one of the most important tasks of vocational training is to prevent unemployment from regenerating. This is why we need to teach deficit professions, and that is why dual training is needed. What the Germans and Austrians have been doing for many decades, obviously we must implement it in Hungarian relations. We have taken steps in this regard, we have encouraged student contracts, we have raised the norm of practice-intensive professions, we have simplified claims. We often hear it from the LMP, and I would like to draw your attention here, it is a big mistake that international corporations are looking for untrained, cheap labour in Hungary. This may have been the case a decade ago, but that's not the case these days, you can be sure of that. The multinational companies are also looking for modern, productive, well-trained and reliable workers. So if the question is what the government is doing or what the government wants, we want to shape vocational training in the interests of the economy, young people and Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: å When can road 74 be refurbished? It's an address. Congressman Manninger Jenő has the floor.
u2014-10-27-177	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Road 74, which runs from Nagykanizsa through Zalaegerszeg to Route 8, carries a great deal of cargo and passenger traffic, one of the largest and most important connections in Western Hungary between highways 7 and 8, turns the county seat, Zalaegerszeg into the blood circulation of the Danube in a north-south direction. The importance of the route is shown by the fact that it has also been included in the international TEN-T network. The south-south-western area of the Danube is far from the larger, rapidly developing industrial centres, so it is very important that the infrastructure improves, improves, and these big cities are also accessible, such as Nagykanizsa and Zalaegerszeg. The relationship between the two cities is particularly important. Between the two cities, road 74 must be renovated in a number of places, it has been seriously damaged, mainly due to large truck traffic. Renewal technology is necessary, so road renovation that not only temporarily, but also for a longer period of time, can cope with the congestion caused by freight traffic and facilitate access to cities. I ask the Secretary of State what he sees as an opportunity to do the renovation work. Thank you for your reply. [[16.40]]
u2014-10-27-178	Thank you very much. Your question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-10-27-179	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The cover of road 74 between Nagykanizsa and Zalaegerszeg is indeed objectionable in many places, as you know, with similar problems in many parts of the national road network. In order to eliminate this, the government has made and is making serious efforts. In 2013, in order to clean up the national road network, we created financing conditions for a high-surface road renovation programme covering both side roads and main roads. In this context, we have renovated the side and main roads for some 550 kilometres. As you have mentioned, the trail of Highway 74 is the European road network, part of the TEN-T, and therefore there is a realistic chance of refurbishing it in the EU budget period 2014-2020. Given the importance of the case, we will do our best to ensure that the renovation can take place by the end of 2015. The technical content of the renovation is determined on the basis of the volume of traffic, so it ensures adequate transport conditions for road users not only in the short but also in the longer term. We also expect a reduction in accidents and congestion, and an increase in the quality of individual and community transport, such as freight transport, from the repair of damaged road sections. Thank you for asking and for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet for national politics:. Double Standard in Transcarpathia? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2014-10-27-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, It is obviously joyful and should be supported if Hungarian representatives can take part in the Ukrainian legislative process, as is the case at present, as István Gajdos, former President of the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine, has previously won a mandate on the list of the former formation of Yanukovics, the Party of the Regions. However, the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia, which competes with UMDSZ and is known as the strategic partner of Fidesz, does not regard Gajdos as a representative of the Hungarians and has previously declared his activities harmful. The Orbán government took the same position, declared Gajdos a national security risk, and UMDSZ excluded Gajdos from the Hungarian-Hungarian cooperation system and from these grants. Even a false investigation against the UMDSZ was made, the result of which, despite all the demands of the socialist Members, has not been made public to this day. Is it an interesting turn of events, however, that as a result of Sunday's Ukrainian elections? Hopefully, as promised by Ukrainian President Petro Porosenko? A Hungarian representative will probably also receive a mandate in the Ukrainian Parliament; we are talking about László Brenzovics, a representative of KMKSZ. However, if Gajdos and UMDSZ were not in Hungarian - quotes? because of the cooperation with the Party of the Regions, we may ask whether Brenzovich, who is also a representative of a Ukrainian party, can be called Hungarian according to this logic. The position of the MSZP is that it is eligible to have a Hungarian representative in the Ukrainian legislation, so we considered the previous and the current solution a good idea. But in light of this, the question arises when the government will reconsider this position, when it will apologize to the Hungarian Democratic Alliance of Ukraine. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Thank you very much for the floor. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-10-27-182	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2014-10-27-183	Your Honour, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, First of all, as regards the facts: Mr Zsolt Németh, as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs at the closed meeting of the Committee on National Inclusion on 22 May 2012, gave a detailed account of what he had based these statements on. The Socialist Party also has a representative on that committee, who can look into the documents of the closed session without further delay. István Gajdos disappeared from public life after the collapse of the Party of the Regions, and in fact disappeared from public life in a rather ignominious way. Well, the congressman knows as well as I do that the situation in Ukraine is not black and white, but the fact remains that the UMDSZ has exposed itself to the Janukovics party in the person of István Gajdos, and KMKSZ has started on the list of the Poroshenko party, I might say, he has exposed himself to the Poroshenko party in the person of President Brenzovich. Based on political common sense, we risk so much that history seems to have confirmed KMSK. Is that the solution? And, by the way, is there a complete consensus between the parliamentary parties? In order to establish a Hungarian electoral district in accordance with the laws in force in Ukraine, this is our political goal. Will this be effective in bringing in the mandate from there if we can bring it together as much as possible? so to speak? the Hungarians, in order to be united, and this division should be eliminated. And I think that István Gajdos is missing or missing? Maybe it's gone? From public life, it allows the Hungarians to appear unitedly beyond the old grievances, because this makes it possible that if we have the Hungarian district, we can win that district. And I'm asking the congressman to help me with that. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-184	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Editor Sebestyén, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: after the election, the promises no longer matter? It's an address. Congressman Sebestyén is responsible for this.
u2014-10-27-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The social worker paid so poorly that he's barely different from the client he's supposed to be helping. This means constant humiliation, a lack of prospects for those working in the sphere. This is only untenable because the freezing of the civil servant's salary bill, the withdrawal of the 13th month's salary, the taking of a month's salary for further training and the introduction of a single-key tax have resulted in a huge loss of real earnings for social workers who are already low-income in the last five years, while their daily duties have steadily increased. I was shocked to find that the signing of the agreement planned for 6 October, which would have been concluded between the Democratic Trade Union of Cradle Workers and the Government, had been cancelled, and that instead there was the disciplining and the promise. The work of the Strike Committee has been successful so far, as the sector's growth has led to the introduction of the social sector bonus as a starting step and the development of a career model for the sector has begun. Although the formation of the new government stopped the process, in September the Minister finally appointed the new government negotiator as Deputy State Secretary for Social Policy Imre Nitrai. They also set the date for signing the agreement, but interestingly, it was the Monday before the municipal election, which was later cancelled. By the way, as a popular feature, this was also used by the heads of department, undersecretaries of state, and even by the Minister himself at professional conferences and lectures. Since then, a few weeks have passed, the municipal elections have taken place, and the joy of the declaration has turned into a gust of joy, the cheering has turned into an outraged, disappointed uproar. Once again, the employees of the sphere had to experience that all they had to do was pull away a carrot of honey in front of their noses, and levitating the agreement was nothing more than a cheap campaign. Dear Secretary of State, Before the sector finally collapses, would you mark a final date for the introduction of a career? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-10-27-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that everyone recognises that people who work in the social sector are active in the areas represented by these five trade unions, doing trying work, and that compared to that, they get so low wages that are unworthy and would be better, we all want them to get more. [[Attila Móring József is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] There is a decade-old wage disadvantage for these people, and for a very long time they have not raised their salary, and the burden of work, the tryingness of the man, is clear to everyone. That is why we had to take action on this issue, and we also believe that we had to take action, and we had to start something, start a career that we would plan, plan for those working in the social field. [[16.50]] This is why we have generally introduced the social pay gap from 1 January this year, which was a serious, tens of billions of additional items in the budget, and a 5-11 percent wage increase for those who work in this sector. As previously stated by the parties in the negotiations, this is a first step in the introduction of a social career. We therefore believe that we will not begin this, honourable Member, but that it started on 1 January 2014. But it didn't end with the one-time pay-off that the cast got. The trial is ongoing. As you pointed out, was Imre Nitrai Deputy Secretary of State appointed to conduct the negotiations, who? As you know? previously sitting on the other side, so on the side of the sectoral trade unions, there was a former Member, he came over to the other side now to negotiate as Deputy State Secretary. So his good intentions and openness are clearly in the hands of the government. Our financial options are gradual. As we have gradually launched a policy of wage increases in health care teachers, we will extend this to other sectors, so we would like to continue here too. You know that the negotiations have been halted because, on the one hand, they were formal errors and, on the other hand, another trade union has also registered that it is represented in this sector and that it also requests its involvement in the negotiations. We will do this, we will continue, and we have started the wage increase on 1 January this year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-27-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: "Will Barcs ever be the capital of Drava, or what will the government do to stop the rapid destruction of South Somogy? It's an address. Congressman Ander Balázs has the floor.
u2014-10-27-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, According to objective opinions, if God looked back, he would see the Ormania, one of the most neglected small regions in Hungary, which, in economic and social terms, absorbs even more rapidly the regions of South Somogy for a better future. The South Somogy region and its headquarters, Barcs, have not had many opportunities to break out, the city's population has fallen by about 1,500 people since the change of regime, i.e. by 12 percent, and we have not yet counted on a huge battle of social crisis to the West. In order to survive, Barcs needs to regain his key role in Croatian-Hungarian economic relations a century ago. But it won't work out of self-esteem or from the constantly mentioned regional development county money. Last year, you promised to drive the M6 highway to Barcs. This would provide a good basis for strengthening the role of hubs and intermodal logistics for job-creating investments. However, this requires more basic things, such as the repair of the Nagykanizsa-Barcs-Pécs railway line, the development of a port which is essential for shipping in Drava, and it could still be classified in length; and coherence between development plans. The leaders of the General Assembly in Somogy welcomed the delegation of Verőce County in Croatia not long ago, and gave their support in principle to their proposal for cooperation to rebuild the 10 km Barcs-Verce railway line and the rail bridge that was destroyed in World War II. However, the national transport strategy has already swept all this off the table, although the draft is well supported, as the argument on its necessity points out, among other things, that this is the shortest route from Central Europe to Adria. Why do we miss the attitude at national level? Why are they letting South Somos break down inexcusably? Where are the specific, accountable, complex drafts of the question raised? Thank you for your attention. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the Jobbik, sporadic applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2014-10-27-190	Thank you, Congressman Ander. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-10-27-191	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government also supports the catching up of disadvantaged areas through infrastructure developments. In the field of road infrastructure? To improve the availability of South Somogy? In the framework of the transport development strategy, the road section of the M60 Pécs-Barcs border is being prepared, which is expected to be completed by 2018. After that, the construction of the 70-mile motorway could begin, worth some 120-150 billion forints. The construction of sections of Highway 68 that avoid the cities of Nagyatád and Marcali is currently under construction, including the reconstruction of the road between the M7 motorway and Barcs. So we're developing the road from two directions. In the area of South Somogy, several improvements are being made in the context of the renovation of the back road network. From the regional operational programme the road connecting Kaposfő-Labod was completed for a length of 15 kilometres and the access road to Szilvásszentmárton for a length of 6 kilometres. Within the framework of the Transport Operational Programme, 3 km outside Babócsa, 6 km along Harkány-Dányi út in the county section, while 1 km in the Tótújfalu connection section. The development of railway lines is essentially possible from EU sources on international rail Corridors. Based on the strategy, we are implementing the renewal of the Budapest-Dombóvár-Kaposvár-Gyékényes line crossing the Somogy county at several paces, and our aim is to reach the InterRegion trains at two-hour intervals between Pécs and Barcs-Nagykanizsa-Szombathely. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This is the end of the series of questions. We're moving on to a new agenda. The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production follows. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/1273. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Committee on Agriculture on detailed debate T/1273/4. they have been granted a serial number. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/1273/6. on a serial number, and the summary report on the Commission's proposal for an amendment to the in-depth debate T/1273/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-10-27-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to inform the Parliament that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 20 October 2014 T/1273. the 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. It discussed and submitted, without voting against, an amendment and a summary report summing up by unanimous vote, a bill amending certain laws attached thereto. Moreover, the bill amends the Agricultural Risk Management Act for three basic purposes. A significant part of the changes are justified by the implementation of the project "Complex agricultural risk management system" within the framework of the operational programme of the electronic administration. The other group of changes were required to comply with the EU State aid rules which entered into force from 1 January 2014. Finally, on the basis of the experience of the system's operation so far, some simplification and clarification form the third group of the necessary amendments. With the adoption of the proposal? in connection with the establishment of a complex agricultural risk system? Some definitions of the legislation, such as the elemental event, the agricultural damage event or the body supporting the assessment of damage, are clarified. [[17.00]] As a new concept, the average yield is defined, which allows farmers without adequate data to determine the level of compensation benefit. These conceptual changes are also necessary for the establishment of a parcel-level damage reporting system, which will be one of the most useful novelties for farmers. Only one technical amendment is included in the summary amendment. In view of the fact that the EU legal act referred to in the proposed legislation has not been published so far, it is not justified to refer it to the bill. On behalf of the Legislative Committee, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-194	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State György Czerván if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] No. I thank the rapporteur for his speech and give the floor to Béla Dankó, rapporteur of the designated committee, within a six-minute time frame. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-10-27-195	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 15 October 2014, the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture conducted the 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. Act T/1273 amending Act T/1273 and certain related laws Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with house rules 44. § (1) meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so it complies with the substantive and formal requirements arising from the Fundamental Law, it fits into the unity of the legal system, it also complies with the obligations arising from international and European Union law and the professional requirements of the legislation. During the detailed discussion, the Committee examined the amendment tabled to the amendment and concluded that it was not an over-extension. However, the examination of the content of the amending proposal revealed that the proposed change could only be made at a later date, since the necessary EU approval had not yet been granted. The amendment was therefore rejected. The board of the house rules 45. Paragraph 3 (c) of the Act provides that he has made his own amendment, which removes a reference to a law which has not yet been brought into force from the text of the bill. This amendment is also necessary because of the lack of already mentioned EU approval. The amendment was unanimously supported by the Committee after having satisfied itself that it was necessary in a short discussion. Accordingly, this amendment is included in the House Rule 45. The Commission's amendment, which closed a detailed debate, was also drawn up in accordance with paragraph 5 of Section 5. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, who has indicated in writing his intention to speak.
u2014-10-27-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! As has been said by the speakers before me, the amendment proposed by the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture on 15 October 2014 to conclude a detailed debate and the summation report submitted by the Legislative Committee on 20 October 2014 makes a small but necessary amendment to T/1273. Law No. 1. The amendment to the Act on the Management of Risks to Agricultural Production originally included a reference to a forthcoming EU Implementing Regulation, which has unfortunately not been published so far. It is therefore not justified to include it in the legislation. Like the previous speakers, I would like to point out in particular that the members of the Fidesz faction agree with the content of the amendment tabled by my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar. Under other conditions, farmers may be entitled to various compensation allowances above a reduction in yield or operating rate of 30%. My fellow Member's amendment would like to reduce this to 15 percent. It was clear from the general and in-depth discussion phase that this was also the subject of the initiative, but it is not yet possible to legislate without EU approval. The representatives of the Fidesz fraction also insist that, even after EU approval, the wallet amends these provisions of the law. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2014-10-27-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-10-27-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I have had the opportunity to express my opinion on several occasions at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, and here in Parliament, and unfortunately I have not been very convinced that, overall, I would like this type of legislative activity. Overall, the government objectives can be agreed, since, in practice, the errors and clarification of legislation adopted in 2011 are being corrected and we are happy to cooperate with the ruling party in helping them correct their mistakes. For this reason, we would like to support this overall, but for some professional reasons we cannot do so. I'd like to say our specific professional problems. In particular, due to the name of the legislation: the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production. In the management of natural risks this year, it has been pointed out that both government and professional organisations have not been able to properly prepare farmers, say, for the large-scale rodent year, for damage prevention, and in such cases, when we are talking about other natural risks, it is difficult to accept the factor that, let us say, pockets are not considered to be a natural factor. It completely misses this legislation and does not address this problem, nor does it intend to take any action to alleviate this kind of gradation pressure for farmers at some level. And our other big problem is that the rise in weather factors and extremes is very much affecting farmers in the production of fodder. The annual change in grassland harvesting is very high, and therefore also has a very high profitability potential, and therefore the fact that the issue of the treatment of damage in the areas of fibre fodder, grassland and pasture is completely excluded from the legislation, is generally unacceptable because one of the most deprived sectors, livestock farming, is not substantially supported by this measure. But the main problem that we have reservations about this legislation is that of Minister Lazarus. Minister Lazarus has repeatedly said here in Parliament, as in the press, that the objective of the civilian government is to help the little ones and to do as much as possible in order to raise and help the little ones. The percentage of compensation or risk compensation is not proportionate. Even though it is said that the percentage helps everyone as much as it does, a smaller producer is in fact more affected by a 10-20% crop loss than by a large farmer on thousands of hectares. The financial opportunities for small farmers are much smaller, so a degressive system would also be needed here, where, depending on the size of the plant, compensation would be reduced in the larger farms, while this would increase for smaller farmers and better help to prevent these problems. We agree with the amendments tabled by my better fellow Member, and we therefore support and vote in favour of the amendment, but we will abstain from the final vote, precisely because of the shortcomings that the legislation does not respond to, and which remain incomplete, and we call on the honourable party to seek to remedy these shortcomings, to help farmers as much as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[17.10]]
u2014-10-27-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to continue almost entirely where Commission President Sallai has finished. In particular, I would like to express my own concerns as to whether what we so often say is proportionate and proportionate can be proportionate in terms of size, or, at some point, we should reach the area of justice in the area of legislation and take action in this respect. It should therefore be considered whether what we call proportionate is absolutely just. It's not. I therefore think that it is worth thinking about the law in this regard. What I have further concerns about is this. In the framework of the project, electronicisation of the agricultural risk management system has taken place, and claims for compensation in this area will only be made by electronic means. There is a strong question: after we have announced it several times, the government's programme is also to support small and medium-sized estates, which border is still available, and which one is not. The assessment of this and the assistance here, I believe, are necessary. You should enter here, I think, the Chamber of Agriculture. Some system inauguration is required here, otherwise they will fall...? There will be deadlines here, and time limits will have to be respected. Such requests and requests shall be submitted by that deadline. Those who cannot handle their machines that otherwise do not exist, I believe that very often they will simply miss the opportunity. In this respect, I would therefore like to draw the attention of the honourable representatives of the Government to the need to find a concrete solution in this area, so that those who, in any case, will need these compensations most. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-202	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Well, I wasn't expecting any surprise from this debate, which was a bit boring at first, because the most serious criticism of this proposal has come from the pro-government part. I fully agree with the problems raised, since the fact that only electronic returns will be accepted is not always expected from a small farmer in the present state. If the Internet tax is introduced, this, I think, will affect more people negatively and even fewer farmers will be able to do so fully. Unless, of course, the Chamber of Agriculture is finally able to do its job and help these farmers with such announcements, and it would not be just about serving their friends. By the way, we will be able to support the legislation itself, which I have already said in the debate about what our main arguments are. I am very sorry that these clarifications did not go through, and that my amendment was not accepted, while both in committee and here in Parliament said that it was considered good and should be supported. But once again, it has turned out that the existence of EU approval is more important than the real interest of Hungarian farmers. I'm very sorry about that. I think it would have been a much more karakan approach to protect Hungarian farmers and take into account their interests if my amendment had now been adopted? I will say this once again - a number of people have said here that they agree with him, and then later, if Brussels did not like this, it could have been amended. Of course, we wouldn't have done this either, but if you had been so observant about EU approvals, I think it would have been worth changing the order here and taking into account the interests of Hungarian farmers in the first place. The clarification and simplification of the legislation in the area of compensation is certainly welcome. Simplifications in this way, I think, bring great benefits to everyone already in the short term, because it was clear that in similar systems such as these compensation schemes, the plants were good for them, and the large beneficiaries of them were those who were able to employ professionals who were able to employ people in their own companies who had a good understanding of this system and had good contact capital in their respective bodies. So I would like to underline that we are in favour of this and encourage you to continue to take similar steps. So, overall, I can only repeat myself that Jobbik will be able to support this proposal, but as a last resort, I would also like to draw the attention of the Government to the criticisms of both my amendment and our fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács. Let us read into this proposal, and I believe that all Hungarian farmers would be pleased with this attitude, and that you can finally prove that instead of waiting for EU approval, you are able to take steps forward that are in the interest of all those involved. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-10-27-204	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. I don't see any contact. Pardon, in the meantime, Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group has come forward. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have already said in the general debate, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support the technical amendments made in the proposal, as we consider this to be an opportunity for farmers to join this particular compensation scheme more easily and better, which is why we will therefore support these technical amendments. As we have already said in the context of the Committee on Agriculture, but this amending proposal still needs to be refined, since farmers who farm in small areas and suffer more damage will still be less able to help them. However, I would once again like to draw your attention to the fact that all measures are only worth something if the government provides adequate resources, and while Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga announces a HUF 1700 billion restriction, while it turns out that the Internet tax may be introduced, possibly also soap tax, it is feared that the Orbán government will not be sure that it will fill up this compensation support framework for certain budgetary resources in a sufficient way. We would therefore like to ask you to clarify this bill and, in addition, allow me to draw your attention to one more thing. A government with a responsible policy is not only focused on natural problems, but also on processes in the world, which, for example, have now affected apple producers in the shearing industry, so that we do not go too far. The biggest problem that may threaten Hungarian agriculture is the 27 percent VAT that is currently in force in Hungary. We have repeatedly drawn attention to this, and we have repeatedly proposed that if this were to be taken down to 5%, we might be able to achieve the greatest compensation in Hungarian agriculture. Finally, allow me one more thing: I would like to ask the government, or I would suggest to the government that we in this House can create any compensation system, if Hungarian farmers and those in Hungarian agriculture do not trust it, they will not join this particular compensation scheme. And in order to trust this, it would also be necessary for you to discover who the Hungarian government actors are who are now involved in this particular diplomatic scandal. Who are the Hungarian government actors who...
u2014-10-27-206	Congressman, please get to the point.
u2014-10-27-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-208	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. The word is yours again.
u2014-10-27-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The only reason I asked you once again, with great respect, to ask the Secretary of State, if you would do me the honor of responding to the problems raised in the debate, would be very good, because there is plenty of time left for all the factions, so I believe that a meaningful dialogue could develop if we did not only get the answers in the rejoinder. So I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State with great respect. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-210	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert SallaiBenedek, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just like to make a very short addition. Mr Legény brought up the issue of the Internet tax, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are making the online system mandatory and then taxing it, and therefore that no better and more secure income can be created. So there is a framework for this, and there is a background for this to be done by the pro-government representatives. [[17.20]]
u2014-10-27-212	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further speakers from the political groups made themselves known, the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-27-213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, They were a little more active now than in the general debate. There was a lot of consensus then. Did we agree, among other things, that the European Union is one of the best compensations? And not for damages, aren't they the same? It's about his law. And then, of course, they brought seven snows together here. The problem with apples is that they were more grown up than usual, about 40%. The compensation system doesn't have much to do with this. Now there are market problems. I believe that in the general debate, [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] I reacted. I do not want to repeat this, but I would like to respond to some of the things that Congressman Bachelor has said. The Compensation Fund has 14.9 billion forints. Tell me when you had that kind of money for compensation in a given year. There weren't any. With regard to electronic matters, I would like to indicate that the National Chamber of Agriculture has started preparing villagers and that they have already been prepared, so we will not leave farmers to themselves, will help them to work and register in the new system, and precisely the calculation of the yield value, which is a rather complicated part of this whole compensation scheme, this calculation will be corrected by the electronic system. Mr Sallai Benedek also said what he said in the general debate on the issue of fibre fodder. I have also said, Mr President, that if you know an exact method of calculating a reduction in yield in fibre feed, we are looking forward to your proposal with love and respect. The adverse situation of livestock owners has also been mentioned. I would like to reiterate here in front of this House that a few weeks ago the government decided that it would give HUF 212 billion more support to livestock farmers than before, and most of this money, HUF 180 billion from the national budget, will be included as additional money in the budget for next year. Mr Zoltán Magyar's problem with this amendment, my fellow members of the Government have also said, we agree on the content, there is a legal and procedural problem here, so we would like to bring down the 30 percent loss of yield to 15, but we need Brussels' permission in advance. These discussions are under way and I hope that this will happen in a few weeks, and this amendment to the compensation law will be permanently put in place. In the meantime, thank you all very much for your support and we look forward to voting in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-27-214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken following the negotiation of the series of applications for inclusion. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to stand for the values of the European Union and NATO H/1208. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on European Affairs. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, within a five-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When we presented this resolution proposal, we did not think that it would be as topical as it was today. After all, when we submitted it, it was because of the Russian-Ukrainian crisis that we thought that, in addition to the government's two-gallon policy, the Parliament would vote, in a parliamentary resolution, that it would stand up for the values of the Euroatlantic and the European Union, a system of values, and that it would confirm the federal agreements that had previously been ratified by the Hungarian society and the Hungarian people by referendum. Now we see that he has another topicality, because Hungarian foreign policy is in ruins. We can read the newspapers, from the government or from the government to the bottom of our relationship with the United States. We can read, see press releases that once again confirm that Parliament does stand up for these values in a resolution. After all, when this scandal broke out, Hungarian citizens, government close-ups and government officials were banned from the United States, and their entry was banned, in these times János Latorcai was in Iran, and there he voted in favour of the Eastern opening and Eastern relations at a press conference with the President of the National Security Committee there, while listening to the Commission President, who made serious critical comments on the United States. While this scandal broke out, Mr Antal Rogán presented an amendment to the gas law that allows the South Stream pipeline to be built bypassing the European Union, in favour of Russian interests and in favour of Gazprom. You obviously do not acknowledge this, and then today's news is that MVM has confirmed that this investment will start in the coming years. Time passes, and Speaker László Kövér makes a statement on a television show that it is worth considering to back out of the community we are part of today [[István Szilárd Németh: That's not what he said, that's the problem! Then there was a sentence! ? Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] And then we'll read about the leader of the civil society organization that organized the peace procession, right, who wants to start organizing another peace procession, that there's a space in the East? Is that what you're saying? and the energy is transferred and literally. We therefore consider it important that this proposal for a resolution be put on the agenda, taken into consideration, and the Parliament also adopts this proposal for a resolution, since the proposal itself is about Hungary strengthening its accession to the European Union and NATO by referendum, with a conscious choice of value and responsibility, and confirmed this by referendum. The proposal for a decision is about the aim of Hungary, as a member of the European Union and NATO, to promote peace, security, stability, the well-being of citizens, the development of the economy and the realisation of European values. The proposal for a decision concerns the continued involvement of Hungary's EU and Atlantic partners in the stabilisation of the region, crisis management operations, the development of democratic, rule of law institutions. It also states that Hungary actively supports the European Union's common foreign and security policy and preserves the central role and collective defence function of NATO in the Euroatlantic security system. It also states that Hungary will continue to participate in efforts to strengthen international security, to increase its defence budget, and that Hungary will develop its cooperation and partnership with other countries on the basis of common interests in terms of stability, sustainable development and mutual economic benefits as a member of the European Union's and NATO's value community. I ask the honourable Parliament to support that this proposal for a resolution be put on the agenda and declared by the Parliament that it is committed to the democratic values of the Euroatlantic values and of the European Union, and that once and for all we should put an end to this decision by East or West, the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Fidesz Group, in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President. [[17 .30]]
u2014-10-27-217	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We do not see the actuality or the meaning of this proposal for a resolution. The draft decision to stand for the European Union and NATO is completely unjustified and unnecessary. Our membership of the European Union or NATO is a fact, a fact that is not threatened by any danger, serious danger, and every paragraph of the draft decision follows directly from our membership, so I will not exaggerate if I say that we are dealing with a completely meaningless draft decision. The reasons for the decision are somewhat different. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the justification is not part of this draft decision, it is a party political justification, as we have heard here a very vocal party political justification. There was talk of everything, Iran, peace procession, South Stream, but there is nothing in this complex of problems in the draft resolution. I would like to draw the Socialist Members' attention to the fact that once there is a main text and it has a justification, the two are in some kind of relationship, and I would like to ask them to do so. Try to spare us political, legal tricks, fellow Members. By the way, we welcome the fact that the Socialist Party has finally become a committed believer in Euroatlantic cooperation, but I do not think that is sufficient reason to adopt a decision on this? issue it as a party statement, perhaps. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-218	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to the President of the Commission that we would be very pleased if the situation were so clear that it would not be necessary to adopt such a proposal for a decision. Unfortunately, the government has made a statement and public-law dignitaries that have recently made statements that do justify this, by the way. So in view of this, I would also like to ask you to support the inclusion of this series of issues, and to support the proposal for a resolution with your vote, because the European Union and NATO not only mean economic and defence cooperation and alliance, but also a stable place for Hungary in the world, and a very serious choice of values, because we have the opportunity to develop democracy organically in Hungary. However, this development is incredibly reflected in the idea of retreating from the EU by the government declaration, a statement from the dignity of public law. I would like to quote László Kövér to the very point:. It is not only about joining the Union and NATO, but also about the moral shock of the Euroatlantic world today. I would like to draw attention to the fact that not the Euroatlantic world has weakened morally, but the Hungarian government. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Peter Szijjártó was unable to meet Secretary of State John Kerry on his American journey [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Which, by the way, is unprecedented. Here I would also like to draw the attention of László Fat to the name of the American Secretary of State. I think that you need to clarify matters of banning scandal as soon as possible so that our membership of the EU and NATO membership will not suffer any damage in the future. We've heard from you many times that it's time. Now is the time, my dear fellow Members, to finally stand up for those values. [[The President shall ring the bell to indicate the end of the speaking time.]] They've been eroding themselves lately. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-220	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2014-10-27-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, KDNP does not support the proposal for a resolution, because there is no change in our commitment to our membership of the European Union and NATO, everything is unchanged. And what MEP Bertalan Tóth has said here in the explanations, I would like to say with respect that I am genuinely surprised, because the Deputy Group Leader Tamás Harangozó, who is sitting next to you, could listen today at the House Committee meeting both to the press department's statement and to my explanation of what really happened in Iran. I would like to point out that the publication of news in an article title on an Internet portal and the fact that the title of the article is not in a thank-you way with the content of the article alone, I think it is shocking. The correction of this from Tehran, which has not been corrected to this day, is even more shocking. The fact that, after a House Committee meeting, this is still on the table, and that is uninformed. So I would like to tell you that this sentence has not been said in a completely different context and in a different federal system. That's one of them. The other one. There was no press conference, since it is completely unknown that if a delegation of Parliament had travelled to another Parliament, they would have given a press conference in any form after a hearing. We did not, nor did we inform the press, and it is even sadder if, after such a correction, the Member is in the same place where we were a week ago. I'm gonna ask you to apologize to me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-222	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr Tibor Bana, the Jobbik Group, has made a statement. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Jobbik does not support the inclusion in the scope of the MSZP proposal for a stand-up to the values of the European Union and NATO. European values in the traditional, true sense also govern us, but we cannot accept the path that the European Union has taken over recent years, and we definitely say no to the Europe of bearded women. In their proposal, the socialists refer to the referendums that have taken place both in connection with our accession to NATO and with our accession to the EU. I would contrast with this, however, the fact that ten years after our accession to the EU, more people think that Hungary's membership of the EU is disadvantaged by public opinion polling data, and the further deepening is clearly rejected by Hungarian voters. On the other hand, we can see that the Community is on the verge of moving towards a federal set-up through the creation of united states in Europe. We could only accept a community based on the concept of a Europe of nations, with the self-determination of nation states in mind. To give a current example: today the EU-US Free Trade Agreement was on the table of the European Affairs Committee, and we were saddened to hear that from the government side, this agreement is clearly supported because it is a nicely packaged agreement, but it is a deal that violates our sovereignty on a number of points and which clearly raises the risk of GMOs. In the context of NATO, I cannot bring similar data on public opinion polls here, but if we look back over the past decades, we can see that our country has not benefited from one-sided Euroatlantic dependence in this area either. Current examples of this could also be provided. The only way we can enforce our national interests is if we can establish a more balanced system of relations. These are the main reasons why we cannot support inclusion in the series. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no further speakers have made themselves known, I would like to ask Mr Bertalan Tóth if he wishes to respond in two minutes. [[On Dr. Bertalan Tóth's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2014-10-27-225	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President of the Commission, Your comment confirmed that there is an actuality of the inclusion of the resolution proposal in today's series of subjects, as they have spoken in this matter. So far, as many requests have been made, both the Fidesz and the KDNP fractions have remained silent. So what you are saying, what the members of the government are saying, what various public figures are now saying all over the place, sometimes in a way, I think that Parliament can put an end to this proposal for a resolution. And I find it very strange that you are questioning the Euroatlantic commitment of the MSZP. And I can tell Vice-President János Latorcai that the House Committee meeting is a closed meeting, and I do not know what was said there. I haven't seen this correction in the press yet. Obviously, if that is the case, I will follow you, but please vote in favour of the resolution proposal, which will confirm your commitment to these values, and you will obviously be able to clarify the misunderstanding you have made. Once again, I would ask the honourable Parliament, my fellow Members, to support this proposal for a resolution on the agenda and to vote for it by Parliament. Thank you very much. [[17.40]]
u2014-10-27-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision shall be taken between the decisions. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group proposed that the Parliament decide to set up an ad hoc committee to supervise the process of concluding an agreement on the construction of the international gas pipeline for South Stream in Hungary, H/492. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary calls on Parliament for a parliamentary resolution proposal for the establishment of a free-at-Union ad hoc committee whose task and purpose is to closely monitor and supervise the construction of the international gas pipeline section of South Stream in Hungary. The aim is to monitor intergovernmental negotiations until the agreement is concluded and until its publication in the law. Why is this important, fellow Members? Obviously, you can say, as you said in the committee, that the monitoring subcommittee of the Economic Commission or some other type of subcommittee is appropriate for this task and why Parliament is not carrying out the supervision of the South Stream Treaty in this subcommittee. I would like to draw your attention to the gravity and importance of this issue, which has not only energy aspects but also economic, trade and foreign policy aspects, which is why we consider it very important to follow up on this issue not in a subcommittee but in a separate ad hoc committee. Unfortunately, in Hungary, this type of question is not going to take place in a professional context, but will be the victims of political debates. In general, the formula seems to be that successive governments follow a realistic picture and are realistic in their approach to the issue, and the political opposition is always trying to provoke a political debate from these issues. This is the type of bad tradition that Jobbik Hungary would like to break with its initiative, when we would like to launch a constructive and professional debate from the opposition, in which we would like to break the kind of short-sightedness and self-destruction that the former opposition parties had. Perhaps I can remind you that when Ferenc Gyurcsány concluded the South Stream Treaty in 2008, you, my fellow members of the Government, who were in opposition at the time, came up with the fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány would betray the Hungarian national interests, lay in the background with Russia, and you called for the National Assembly to monitor this trial and have a parliamentary ad hoc committee convene to review and settle this issue. Now the dice have turned, and obviously you, quite rightly, come up with the necessity and importance of building the South Stream. We would now like to ask you to contribute to the setting up of this ad hoc committee. Of course, the question of diversification can mean two things, it can basically mean diversification of the source and diversification of the route. Over the past ten years, it has been a long time since we came to a complete blind spot on the issue of diversification of the source when we discussed the issue of the Nabucco gas pipeline. The Nabucco gas pipeline had neither financial background nor gas available for this pipeline. We wasted ten years on this project, it was an illusory plan. Russia is clearly strategically important for our energy supply, both for Hungary and for the European Union, because of its geographical proximity and capabilities. Is that why we're saying that until we can find a way to diversify the source? And it looks like it didn't work out? At least in the area of the route, we can diversify our gas supply, and in this we must diversify Hungary's gas supply by circumventing Ukraine, by building a gas pipeline under the Black Sea. This is also a strategic issue for the gas supply of our country and our continent. Of course, they are trying to blackmail the various countries politically, as in the case of Bulgaria, to withdraw from the construction of the South Stream, such blackmail is being done towards Hungary by the European Union and the United States of America. It is very important to keep our national interests in mind and to ensure that Hungary's gas supply is completely undisturbed. This is also the purpose of our motion. That is why I ask for your support for our proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-228	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members who have applied for a written speech in advance. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2014-10-27-229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the parliamentary factions present, the representatives of the political groups in Parliament, who will hopefully speak after me in this debate, that if, like the committee meeting, they will be rejected, or if they intend to reject this proposal, they will give one realistic reason to do so, because, unfortunately, we have not heard this at the committee meeting. Because the Energy Sub-Committee of the Economic Committee is an appropriate forum for dealing with this issue is not a realistic reason, since we know that the South Stream gas pipeline is not just an economic issue, there are several other aspects, foreign policy, energy, environmental protection, and I could tell you more. So should a case-by-case committee in Parliament be able to deal with this, regardless of what it is? am I looking at the LMP, the MSZP or any other opposition faction? Whether or not they are in favour of achieving the South Stream gas pipeline in itself, as we opposition parties are not in a decision-making position at the moment. However, the fact that the Government supports the supervision of this investment, which is also supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, is a case-by-case committee, I believe that it is in the interest of all parliamentary parties and factions regardless of ideology, so that we check the progress of this investment. On the same basis, we last supported the Commission's initiative of the MSZP on the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, even though we are in stark contrast to whether or not this investment is necessary. However, we supported it because we say that Parliament, as the main representative body of the people, must oversee all such investments so that there are no abuses that we have seen in Hungary over the last 25 years. So I would like to call on my fellow Members to put aside the factual policy differences and to support the establishment of this committee. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi applied for a speech, an independent Member. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-231	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Since the conclusion of the Paks agreement, Hungary has been moving away from the Euroatlantic Allied System step by step and in an increasingly obvious way compared to Hungary's consensus at the time of the change of regime. Last time, the promotion of Russian power interests came to the fore in Hungary as well, while in Ukraine it was done with weapons, and in Hungary with the purchase of Fidesz and Jobbik. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Shame on you!]] It is clear that the construction of the South Stream is intended to extend Russia's European influence. While the Orbán government is attacking the United States with great vehemence, it is fighting a hypocritical war against the West and the European Union, which supports our country with billions, voluntarily and singing into Putin's arms. Jobbik should not be so concerned that the government is not doing everything it can to build up Russian addiction, since the Hungarian steps that have put the Russians in a position have been abundantly increased recently. [[17.50]] The story started with Paks. Then, a few weeks ago, the government stopped the supply of Ukrainian gas, and then Gazprom put its gas in Hungarian gas storage at a low cost. Antal Rogán's recent amendment will allow the Parliament to accept Hungary's start to build the South Stream, despite the fact that this clearly goes against European Union law. In the love of Putin Russia, the Fidesz-Jobic coalition finally came together. We clearly see Hungary's place in the Western world. As we reject the South Stream, we reject the ad hoc committee. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] the setting-up of the project, as well. We will not, of course, support you. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-232	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Here, Parliament and Members will vote on a series of articles. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: "Really?"]] As is the case with the investment in Paks Nuclear Power Plant, it is also a case-by-case committee. The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports this series of subjects, although it disagrees on a lot of content issues contained in the resolution proposal, for example, to be the better chair of the ad hoc committee, knowing Jobbik's Russian relationship system. I think we cannot agree on everything, but that the Parliament should discuss this and the South Stream, the Hungarian energy policy, the current situation, and we consider it important, so we support the inclusion in the series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Group, has spoken. I give you the floor.
u2014-10-27-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal for a decision and the motion for the establishment of an ad hoc committee concern the setting up of a ad hoc committee to supervise the process of concluding an agreement on the construction of the international gas pipeline of South Stream in Hungary. Dear House, The Socialist Government concluded an interstate contract for the establishment of the South Stream in January 2008. It is therefore conceptually impossible to supervise the conclusion of an agreement on the construction of the Hungarian phase of the gas pipeline, because, as I said, this agreement was concluded in January 2008 during the governance of the MSZP. The same decision, similar to the decision of the other countries, Bulgaria and Serbia, also provided that a joint venture would be set up by the parties to establish the Hungarian section of the South Stream. That happened, too. After that, I think, on the basis of the facts and in the light of the facts, it is obvious and clear that the committee supervising the conclusion of such an agreement does not have the right to exist, because what they would supervise, the conclusion process has already been completed, the Socialist Government has closed, and the agreement has already been concluded. So I see no reason why an ad hoc committee should be set up in this regard. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-27-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, If the Jobbik faction's wish to put active policy in the background when we are discussing such a proposal, then they should also have backed up the party position when giving the justification of the ad hoc committee. Because there are a lot of party positions that LMP cannot accept and support at all, because we think of this situation in a very different way than Jobbik. We see that another nasty game has begun in Hungary, which started with the amendment of the Mengyi gas law not too long ago. It was about allowing Gazprom to use the Hungarian gas storage facilities, which we bought for quite a lot of money because you told us that we needed them so that the country would not freeze in winter. If Gazprom uses this for gas storage, it has nothing to do with whether Hungary freezes or freezes. So this must have been another favor to Vladimir Putin and his colleagues, who have received many favors from you anyway. The other is an amendment to the Economic Committee, which is absolutely outrageous, as it will also allow people in this country who do not have a gas transport permit to build a gas pipeline. This is again in the interests of Gazprom and again in the interests of Russia and not in the interests of the Hungarian people. In addition, it opens another front between the European Union and Hungary, knowing that the Union is trying to avoid the construction of the South Stream. Besides, it would be in Hungary's interest to finally isolate this country and set up renewable energy sources in battle, not to do Vladimir Putin another and more favors. So in short, it seems to me that the Paks expansion and the credit received for this will not only compensate the thousands of billions that were mentioned in this House, but also pay you Vladimir Putin's favor in the form of such favors. We don't want to assist in any way with this dirty business. It would be good to check this process, but it would also be good. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] If the Jobbik faction lived with a motion that would be eligible, regardless of the party position. [[The president's ringing again.]] It's not like that right now.
u2014-10-27-238	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, who wishes to respond within a two-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the first round, let me respond to the suggestions of Zsuzsanna Szelényi. It's very amusing when you talk about the purchase of Jobbik and Fidesz by Russia. You, who entered this parliament in the colors of a party that received more than a billion forints of support? Am I referring to Bajnai Gordon's Home and Progress Foundation? from the United States of America, Center for American Progress, who knows what tasks to perform. [[Cries from the benches of Jobbik: That's right! That's right! ? Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the person who enters into gas contracts with Russia is not getting away from Europe. With this kind of logic, which you have shown here, it can be said that Germany, yes, is far removed from Europe at a time when, taking into account its own interests and energy aspects, it built the Nord Stream, which transports gas directly from Russia to Germany. I'm asking you to take this into account. With the same logic, Germany has moved very far away from Europe, and I would like to reject these points. What my fellow Member, Mr András Aradszki, has said about why it is not exactly timely to raise this proposal for a decision and to establish a committee on a case-by-case basis, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we do not want to supervise the conclusion of the contract, but that we want to establish and implement the supervision of the implementation of the contract with this ad hoc committee. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the justification clearly always reflects the opinion of the Members who have submitted the decision, so you can view it as a political statement in this sense. But that's not what you have to decide, but the convening of the ad hoc committee itself and setting up the ad hoc committee to oversee the construction of the South Stream. So, as I understand it, you can support this; the justification [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] the reasons why they could accept it have been supplemented here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-27-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place between the following decisions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXVIII on the management of weather and other natural risks to agricultural production follows. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the amendment of law and of certain related laws and the final vote. The submission was made in T/1273. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1273/6. and the summary report by T/1273/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We now take a vote on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1273/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 1 abstention. [[18.00]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/1273/8. a single proposal submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 152 votes in favour, no votes against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Following the 2013 LXVII fee for motorways, highways, main roads. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted for the amendment of the Act. The submission is T/1124. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1124/6. and the summary report by T/1124/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We now take a vote on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1124/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 158 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1124/8. a single proposal submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 156 unanimous votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now it is up to two members of the Hungaricum Committee to choose. President of the Parliament S/1752. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Act No. 14 Pursuant to paragraph 2 (1), the two members of the Hungaricum Committee are delegated by the Parliament. The President of the Parliament recommends that Sándor Lezsák and István Simicskó be elected to the Hungarikum Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Sándor Lezsák and István Simicskó to the Hungarikum Committee with 129 votes in favour, 5 against and 20 abstentions. [[It's a rare applause.]] Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of two members of the Hungaricum Committee and the signature of the oaths. Mr Sándor Lezsák and Mr István Simicskó, please come to the centre of the Chamber to take an oath. I would ask Mr László Földi to read the oath text and the Members of Parliament to listen to it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. ? Sándor Lezszak and Dr. István Simicskó step into the middle of the room. ? László Földi reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-10-27-241	I, Sándor Lezsák/István Simicskó vow that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as a committee for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-10-27-242	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the two elected members of the Hungarikum Committee to sign them. [[It's happening. ? Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Sándor Lezsák and Dr. István Simicskó, and gives a copy of the signed oath document. ? Sándor Lezszak and Dr. István Simicskó were the first to congratulate Dr. Zsolt Semjén, then József Tóbias, Péter Harrach, János Volner, Dr. András Schiffer and Antal Rogán.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I congratulate Mr Sándor Lezszak and Mr István Simicskó on their election on behalf of the Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, It is now time for decisions to be taken on a series of subjects. I would remind you that, on the basis of the request of the MSZP Group, the Parliament has already conducted the H/1208 on standing up for the values of the European Union and NATO. The debate on the subject series of proposals for decisions. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will József Tobias and other Members, MSZP, H/1208 be included in the series of subjects. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 27 votes in favour, 127 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would remind you that, at the request of the Jobbik Group, the Parliament has already carried out the creation of an ad hoc committee to supervise the process of concluding an agreement on the construction of the international gas pipeline for South Stream in Hungary, H/492. The debate on the inclusion of a series of proposals for a decision. Now it's time for the vote. I ask you, will Gábor Vona and other representatives, Jobbik, H/492 be included in a series of subjects. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 38 votes in favour, 109 against and 5 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We are now continuing our work with general debates. [[It's a short break. ? Move.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who do not participate in the further debate because of their urgent public function, to leave the Chamber silently. [[18.10]] Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the draft law on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information will follow. The submission was made in T/53. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I'll ask who the Ministry of the Interior wants to present his expo. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-27-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] The bilateral agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information was signed in Budapest on 29 January 2014. The Convention aims to protect classified information generated or exchanged in cooperation between the two countries. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties, designate the competent authorities and provide for the compatibility of each national rating level with each other. It shall include the rights and obligations of the parties and the security principles which the parties must fully follow. The adoption of this bill is necessary to announce the above agreement, and I therefore ask you to support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-27-244	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the speech will be given by the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group.
u2014-10-27-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 14 December 2009, the Parliament adopted the 2009 CLV on the protection of classified information. Law. This created bilateral confidentiality agreements [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] the legal basis necessary for its conclusion and application. The purpose of this Convention is to protect classified information exchanged or generated in cooperation between the Contracting Parties and legal persons and natural persons under their jurisdiction. In this context, it shall regulate security cooperation between the Parties and designate the competent authorities. It provides for the compatibility of certain national classification levels with each other and for a procedure to be applied in the event of a breach of the security of classified information. Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill, but it is also worth reviewing the current situation of Polish-Hungarian relations. This is particularly important, since Hungarian-Polish relations and friendship are mentioned in historical perspectives. It is certainly welcome that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's first foreign visit to Warsaw led to his election victory in 2010 and 2014. Since the establishment of the second Orbán government, there have been five bilateral meetings of the Prime Minister, including a Hungarian-Polish government summit in January this year. In the framework of the V4 cooperation, the Heads of Government met three times and eight meetings of foreign ministers have taken place in the last nearly four and a half years. In response to a written question, Minister Tibor Navracsics explained on 25 August that there was no bilateral dispute between Hungary and Poland. Before we can take note of what has been said, the Minister's reply continues as follows: our aim is to ensure close coordination in the areas of EU reform, Visegrád cooperation and Ukrainian-Russian conflict. Let's stop here for a second. Russian pro-Russianism in Russian-Ukrainian conflict and energy is becoming increasingly hard-pressed by Polish political public opinion. Polish politicians are increasingly critical and rejecting the Orbán regime. It has also become clear from the wiretapping materials that have a decisive influence on Hungarian-Polish relations that Polish politicians say the same thing with great rigour as their public opinion. It is irrelevant from this point of view what the leader of the Polish state oil company has to say about the intimate relationship between the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Russian head of state. [[István Apáti: Nana! ? Noise.]] We must see that the main reason for the Polish resentments is that the Hungarian government is not following the strategy that Poland considers appropriate in the Ukrainian-Russian conflict and energy issues. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Mr. President! You're not talking about the agenda.]] And what Poland thinks is right? It is telling that the former Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk warned his colleagues in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict that freedom has a price and we have to pay for it. We should note that the Hungarian Prime Minister sent the ambassadors of our country back to the host countries by saying that only the weak and stupid follow a value-based policy. Since Minister Navracsics also mentioned Visegrád cooperation in his written reply, let me add one thought to that. In recent years, discussions in the Visegrád framework have also become formal. [[Dr. János Fónagy: You've got the wrong paper!]] On the two strategic issues, such as the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, the EU's action for this and, by the way, energy coordination, the four governments' positions have not been fully uniform. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Mr. President! Mr. President.]] However, the Visegrád Prime Minister's meeting in May became essentially a Tusk-Orbán dispute. The Hungarian Prime Minister may not have chosen the right place, time and form in his inauguration speech, choosing the conditions for Ukraine, which is fighting Russian separatists. The Polish Prime Minister of that time expressed himself diplomatically and did not consider this statement to be fortunate in Orbán. The publicists, however, simply ruled it a body-robbery.
u2014-10-27-246	Congresswoman! He's making a speech as a general speaker. On the basis of the house rules, I am reluctant to remind you that here it expresses a faction point related to a specific agreement, not daily news. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: That's right! ? István Apáti: So? Why can't you tell me? ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what you're talking about. Intercoms in opposition benches.]] I'm forced to tell you that. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-247	Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-248	I'd like to take this into account and continue. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what you've done. ? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-10-27-249	Thank you very much. I think it's important that we look at the environment in which...
u2014-10-27-250	Congresswoman, I do not wish to open a debate. Please take this into account: this is a specific agreement. Go on. [[István Apáti: Unbelievable! ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's what you're talking about, Mr. President. ? István Apáti: Respect to the speaker!]]
u2014-10-27-251	Finally, further strengthening of Hungarian-Polish strategic cooperation is essential in terms of economic relations: energy policy, the construction and interconnection of transport corridors, gas and electricity lines. In this regard, however, I would like to point out that Minister Navracsics wrote in his response that Poland is the eighth most important export partner in Hungary. In a previous speech to Parliament, I mentioned that János Áder stated at a recently organised Polish-Hungarian business forum that we could be proud of the trade between the two countries, but given the figures, it is clear that Poland, with almost 40 million inhabitants, has less Hungarian goods than the 5 million in Slovakia and the same as the 10 million in the Czech Republic. As the President of the Republic noted, there is still work to be done on investment. Ladies and gentlemen, Behind the official political statements, the Hungarian-Polish bilateral relationship system is not entirely cloud-free. In March this year, former Foreign Minister János Martonyi highlighted the need for concrete steps to strengthen Hungarian-Polish relations, and there are also many opportunities in bilateral economic cooperation. [[18.20]] With regard to the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information, let us keep this in mind in any way, settle disputes, and finally fill Hungarian-Polish relations with content. I wanted to draw the attention of this House and its Members. Thank you.
u2014-10-27-252	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking the factions if there's any further keynote speech on the part of the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] No. I'm asking if there's any other commentary other than the keynote speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Kontra on Charles' signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-27-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is what I would like to say about the contribution made by Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Dear fellow Member, This convention, which is being negotiated by the Parliament between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the publication of the Convention on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Classified Information, disproves in itself the terms that you have said in your contribution. The excellent state of Hungarian-Polish relations proves that such a contract has been concluded. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-254	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Austrian Federal Government on border crossings and border crossing points at the common border and on the publication of the agreement on cooperation in border traffic control in road and water transport until closure follows. The submission is T/929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to present his expo on behalf of the Ministry of Interior.
u2014-10-27-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since Hungary's Schengen accession, the Hungarian-Austrian state border has been freely interoperable. In the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security, the Schengen Borders Code allows Member States to temporarily, exceptionally, restore border control on a temporary basis, in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security. It is up to the EU Member States to decide and decide on the terms of the action. In Hungary, the government has the power to order a temporary return of control under Government Decree No 333/ 2007 on the rules for the temporary return of border control. Pursuant to the Agreement between Hungary and Austria on common border border crossing points and border crossing points and cooperation in road and water transport in border traffic control, signed on 19 June 2014, the two countries shall mutually assist each other in the event that one of them orders the temporary return of controls. Dear Parliament, The order for recovery shall be notified without delay to the other party by providing information on the opening hours and the scope of use of the crossing points specified in the Agreement, which operate as a border crossing point or as a border crossing point prior to the accession of Hungary to the Schengen area. In the event of a temporary return to border control, the parties shall make available to each other the buildings remaining at the former motorway crossing point Hegyeshalom-Miklóshalma/ Nickelsdorf I., the bus terminal in the Hungarian territory and the freight terminal in the Austrian territory. The rest of the sites will be restored on their own territory. The publication of this agreement is conditional on the adoption of this bill, so I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-256	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Mr Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, With this law, the government guarantees both security and freedom. The Schengen Treaty is a great gift for all citizens of the Member States, so that we can travel freely and feel free. Free travel enables free movement, a free economy, thus creating good human and friendly relations, but also remains the main task of nation states to guarantee security for citizens. Hungary will ensure that security is maintained in addition to free border crossing, and this law is necessary: if public policy or internal security are seriously threatened, it is possible to restore border control at the Schengen internal borders. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of these principles, Fidesz supports the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-258	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-27-259	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In the beginning, I am reassured that we will conclude this treaty with one of the countries of the raging, dying West, so that we may succeed in stopping this decadent Western culture from beating and dying a little bit. I would like to reassure you that I am not going to ask you who are the government officials who have been banned from the United States, because I would obviously not be talking about the proposal, but what is right here in front of us. Are you really the treaty? As the author described? is concerned that, where there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security, border control at the Austrian-Hungarian border can be temporarily restored in the manner and places specified in the proposal. However, it is worth looking at the timing of this Treaty, which is before us, which is the circumstances which could at all raise the possibility of such a restoration. Which party could be in favor of asking for this? Or can this restoration be interesting in relation to Austrian-Hungarian relations at all? More than that, because the Austrian President Heinz Fischer visited Budapest on 15 October, who, contrary to the Hungarian government's custom, raised much bigger, much more meaningful topics, such as the case of the Land Use Act or, for example, the question of the bank tax to the Hungarian colleague. The President stressed that the Austrians were also concerned about legal certainty in a country and whether it would do everything in its power to improve its economic environment, as well as the way in which these debates that might have been held between countries could have been prevented earlier. A few days ago, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, visited Austria. Interestingly, such contentious points were raised here, but the fact that this was also a convention was a major part of the visit. However, we also found it interesting that Péter Szijjártó said that Hungary and Austria will not be border control, but will open new roads. [[18.30]] This is interesting, because we have a treaty, which is quite the opposite, and what we have before us is that in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security, border control can be restored. We do not now understand the reason for this, although we obviously do not dispute the point of this before us for a police reason, but we do not know what is the basis for this fact. In response to Péter Szijjártó's statement, Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz? Is it interesting that she's not a lady, as President Fat didn't hit the American colleague? a negative assessment of the current situation in Hungary from the point of view of Austrian investors and banks. This is only an interesting addition because it is not necessarily the Austrians that we have to comply with, but the Austrian party has indicated that they have serious reservations and has also indicated that the EU is launching infringement proceedings against Hungary with Austrian aid in some cases. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Mr. President, what are you talking about?]] This is only interesting if we look at the conditions under which this convention is reasonable and timely. No wonder this case came here, since Minister Sándor Fazekas refused to negotiate with his Austrian partner, as the Austrians noted. The issue of the banker is not a minor issue. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Mr. President, get to the point.]] where the Austrians have repeatedly indicated that they consider this measure to be excessive. Similarly, T/929. I would like to talk about a legislative proposal when I am talking about the steepness in government communication when you say that, despite the differences between the two countries, there is a good relationship between them, while you have failed to agree on any dispute. However, it may also be important that this agreement, this draft, means what it means in relation to the Hungarian-Austrian relationship on one of the issues of national policy, in relation to the Hungarians living in Austria. Here, if a small detour is allowed, it would be interesting to reflect on the fact that there are two Hungarian communities in Austria, one of which is the so-called Burgenland indigenous community, who have been living in this area for about a thousand years, and the other part is the group of economic emigrants emigrated to Vienna. On the basis of the last processed census, the Hungarians in Burgenland account for 6641 people, but it can be seen that this number can sometimes be excessive, since Hungarians live mostly in the three settlements of the Upper Guard, Felsőőőr, Alsóőr and Őrsziget, in Upper Turkey in Central Burgenland and scattered in 156 settlements. This is only interesting because these groups, which are recognised as indigenous Hungarians, are the Austrian government as a minority and the Hungarian has been made the second official language since 2000. Officially, however, there is an even larger Hungarian community in and around Vienna, and this agreement may be interesting for them, and 15 435 people are counted by this group on the basis of the 2001 censorship. This agreement may be interesting from a national political point of view, and it may also be important from a national political point of view that the Burgenland Hungarians retain this indigenous status. It may also be important what will happen to the economic refugees who have migrated here. I have to say, from this point of view, the situation is not reassuring. In Austria, the number of Hungarian economic refugees living here is constantly increasing. The biggest increase was in 2012. To illustrate this problem: the number of economic refugees living here increased by 1-4 percent between 2001 and 2008, by 9.4 percent between 2011 and 12. In 1995 there were around 9400 notified Hungarian workers in Austria. This figure was 42 846 in January 2013. So it can be said that this is a good indicator of the environment in which this agreement is being concluded, since the number of economic refugees in Austria has increased by about five times. Behind the numbers there are people, there are fates, people who have fled this country because they have not found their livelihood here, and there is something to do with them. [[Dr. Károly Kontrat: Mr. President, you are not talking about the subject!]] The Socialist Party is convinced that when we open border crossings, the opening of Europe is an important and eligible direction, whether Fidesz or any other party, but for young people fleeing Hungary, we should look for opportunities to come back to this country to find their prosperity here. Of course, if we consider this contract to be a theoretical option, with which it is better not to use it, if we consider it to be an opportunity to explain potentially difficult situations, the MSZP will support this proposal. However, it is important to underline that we believe that there is a much stronger need to normalise the Austro-Hungarian relationship than what the government has done so far, not to conclude such agreements, but to conclude agreements that are indeed filled with content. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-27-260	Thank you, Congressman. I am obliged to inform you that this agreement contains quite specific norm. So I think it's good for you to study it carefully. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-10-27-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik is in favour of the proposal for an agreement, and I have only a few brief but important comments on the proposal. Politicians in the eastern provinces of Austria have been coming up more and more recently that border controls should be restored. Their reasoning refers primarily to migration, the problem of illegal immigration, smuggling and increasing crime. We know that many refugees from Africa and the Middle East travel through Hungary to Austria, which is why it is important to take meaningful steps to strengthen the control of our southern and eastern borders so that as few illegal immigrants as possible can cross through our country to Austria. The Hungarian-Serbian border section is the most infected in this regard. Let me get some figures here: until September this year, more than 8,000 border offenders have been caught, and given the situation in the Middle East, it is clear that this number will continue to grow. Hungary is not the target in this case, illegal immigrants move to the west, and a few days of news is that 171 illegal immigrants were caught in a single day, who also crossed the Hungarian-Serbian border section. It would therefore be important for the government to provide additional resources to strengthen the protection of this border section, even so as not to make it difficult for thousands of Hungarians to commute between Hungary and Austria on a daily basis. This must therefore be taken into account by the government. Overall, we can support the proposal itself, as I have indicated. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-262	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's anyone else from the factions who'd like to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda, whether in a two-minute or normal time frame. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-27-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the comments made in the general debate. With regard to László Kiss's comment, I would like to say that the fact that the agreement was concluded also contradicts the allegations that he made in his speech. Hungarian-Austrian relations are excellent, which is why the two countries concluded this agreement, which meets the interests of the two countries, thus also meeting the interests of Hungary. I therefore believe that the agreement is clear that this is an opportunity for the two countries to mutually assist each other in the event that one of them orders a temporary return to control. I would like to thank you for your support on the contribution made by Mr Tibor Bana. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[18.40]]
u2014-10-27-264	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, It follows the publication of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption in Strasbourg, dated 15 May 2003, and the publication of the 2002 XLIX Convention on the Law of the Council of Europe on Corruption, in Strasbourg, on 27 January 1999. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/58. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to present his expo on behalf of the Ministry of Interior. You have the floor.
u2014-10-27-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary, as a member of the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Group of States, is committed to taking measures to prevent and eradicate corruption in order to achieve long-term effects and results in this area. In the spirit of combating corruption, legislation also has a major role to play, as it creates the foundations for the prosecution of corruption offences, which makes the work of law enforcement authorities more effective. The purpose of the bill before this House is to recognise the mandatory scope of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption and to publish the Additional Protocol. The Council of Europe signed the Convention on Corruption No 173 on 26 April 1999 and ratified it on 22 November 2000. The Convention is set out in Annex XLIX of 2002 in Hungary. The provisions of the Convention shall apply from 1 July 2002. The Additional Protocol to the Convention was adopted by the Council of Europe on 15 May 2003. This lays down rules on active and passive bribery of national and foreign arbitration. However, the former Hungarian legislation did not allow the penalty for bribery of the Hungarian arbitration panel, as the arbitration panel did not qualify as an official. However, the recognition of the mandatory scope could not take place until the domestic legislative environment provided the necessary background. By introducing the law on the modification of certain criminal laws in the former Btk. there is no longer any obstacle to the recognition and publication of the arbitration panel, of the mandatory scope of the Additional Protocol. In addition to the publication of the Additional Protocol, the second part of the bill includes the withdrawal of the reservation previously attached to the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. Dear Parliament, The reservation concerning Article 8 of the Convention was made by Hungary because the Btk. has not previously ordered any punishment for passive bribery in the foreign private sector. This problem has been eliminated, given that two new paragraphs have been added to the former Btk with effect from 1 January 2012. the provision of international bribery. In view of this, he specifically ordered that passive bribery in the foreign private sector be punished, thus allowing Hungary to withdraw the reservation. Since our internal law already complies with the provisions of the Convention, the withdrawal will take place after the adoption of the necessary law. Accordingly, the decision of the National Assembly to no longer renew the reservation will be recorded in the Act declaring it. Dear Parliament, With the publication of the Additional Protocol and the withdrawal of the reservation to the Convention, Hungary will fully comply with the recommendations of GRECO. In view of the above, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-266	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the negotiation of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on Corruption, let me briefly recall what is included in Annex IV to the Convention on International Cooperation. Chapter 1. According to the Chapter, the Contracting Parties shall cooperate as widely as possible in the investigation and prosecution of corruption offences. They shall provide each other with mutual assistance and shall not refuse such requests for assistance, except for a few exceptions. In addition, where the Parties consider that they may assist another Party in ordering or conducting corruption investigations or proceedings, they may communicate information to each other in the absence of such a request. These provisions of the Convention are exemplary for all states in the world that are genuinely interested in combating corruption. We have the right to expect our friends to communicate this to the Hungarian authorities in such a way that they can take the necessary steps if they have substantial information about any corruption suspicions. According to common sense, this should include a minimum of who or in what case corruption is suspected. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance is committed to fighting corruption, and because the additional protocol before us contributes to the conclusion of the Convention, we are of course in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-27-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-269	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I can say that any bill, proposal for a resolution, or whatever it is that serves to combat corruption, is supported and supported by our faction. This is also the case with the bill before us, and of course we support its adoption. I would like to mention, of course, that it is interesting why it is only now that this proposal is being discussed by the Parliament, because the speakers before me have also said that there were indeed two reservations which made it impossible to negotiate and ratify so far, but both of them have already passed away in 2012. So both problems that the Secretary of State or, if I recall correctly, my fellow Member, have been discussed for years. This is also indicated by the fact that the bill was tabled during the term of office of the previous government, and then it was transferred to the current Parliament, but we are still discussing the bill before us. I see no reason for this delay, by the way. Of course, we could say that it is never a better time, because it is certain that the events of the past period give this case an actuality. That is what my fellow Member Tilki tried to discuss and tried to prevent criticisms that would obviously be heard by all opposition parties. It is very interesting to explain the bill itself, and perhaps this is what my fellow Member has referred to. Let me read a paragraph from this. In relation to Article 8, Hungary made reservations pursuant to Article 37 (1) of the Convention because the former Btk. did not order to punish passive bribery in the foreign private sector. But has this problem gone away, given that? and here it refers to the new criminal code that was inserted by 258/C. "Paragraphs"? , that, under the new provisions, from the date indicated above, the Btk. has also explicitly ordered that passive bribery in the private sector be punished abroad. I suppose I am not the only one who feels the hearing in this new situation that is being formulated, which has come up in connection with an American-owned company in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Two thoughts in this circle. One is that laws can be drawn up, and these laws, which are used to prevent corruption, are commemorated here at the plenary session of the Parliament in beautiful veritable sentences. They just know that things will come into place if we not only create laws but also consistently apply them to the authority, but also apply the country that has accepted them. [[18.50]] According to Article 4 (1) of the Act, the reservation was made because the former Btk. did not order to punish passive bribery in the foreign private sector. But has this problem gone away, given that? and here it refers to the new criminal code that was inserted by 258/C. "Paragraphs"? , that, under the new provisions, from the date indicated above, the Btk. has also explicitly ordered that passive bribery in the private sector be punished abroad. I suppose I am not the only one who feels the hearing in this new situation that is being formulated, which has come up in connection with an American-owned company in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, Two thoughts in this circle. One is that laws can be drawn up, and these laws, which are used to prevent corruption, are commemorated here at the plenary session of the Parliament in beautiful veritable sentences. They just know that things will come into place if we not only create laws but also consistently apply them to the authority, but also apply the country that has accepted them. (18.50) There is a good book, my fellow Members, the title, I recommend that you note that Dictatorship 2.0. This is not about Hungary yet, but about Russia, for example, but in this book it is surprising what and how many parallels can be found in terms of public law measures for the development of the Russian system, and, by the way, regarding public law provisions and otherwise economic processes that entered into force during the second Orbán government. One of these elements, ladies and gentlemen, is that strict, if possible ambiguous laws must be adopted, and this must be applied consistently to political opponents. It does not have to be applied consistently to its own people. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing this situation right now. We see that you are bringing in a bill to combat corruption, but at the same time, when the U.S. executive talks about institutionalized state corruption in Hungary, they spread their hands that you have nothing to do with it. I don't think that's okay. What my fellow Member Tilki has said is that if the American party knows what these matters are, then it will be possible to make a move. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is a big problem with the prosecutor's office, which cannot or does not want to reveal the events and acts of corruption in Hungary that the Americans can otherwise explore. Perhaps the prosecutor's office should have as much competence in relation to corruption in Hungary as the US authorities have in relation to Hungarian affairs in America. So, to me, the argument is that you do not wish to enforce similar laws, which, for example, lies before us now, because you will expect redemption from foreign information, and I am sorry, but this is unacceptable. It is about, ladies and gentlemen, what the book I quoted says is that you are applying the state apparatus, the rigour of the law, to all those who are your opponents, and consistently do not apply it to those who, on the other hand, are your friends, your allies. Ladies and gentlemen, Since you are here, I think it is right to expect you to at least tell us if there is a person in the Ministry of Interior who has been banned from the United States. I think that we are right to expect it, especially then, and, in spite of the fact that you do not like it, Mr State Secretary, and you are asking the President to warn me, as the previous two socialist speakers, still, honourable Secretary of State, that you should know and see that this matter is connected. You know, when we are discussing an anti-corruption package, I think that in the general debate, when a Member talks about the corruption situation in Hungary, this is indeed a close link. Whether you like it or not, Mr. Secretary, that's the case. I ask just one thing in my speech today, that you be so kind as not only to bring forth sound laws to this House, but also to enforce these laws when your politicians, your state leaders, are affected by corruption. Please also stand up when the NAV president is affected, please stand up even when you talk about government interests in connection with corruption cases. We don't want anything else. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that these requests are made here in plenary, in Parliament, not only to opposition representatives, but also to pro-government representatives? If they did that? They are not unacceptable, and that is what we do, I would like to say. So, as a summary, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that we naturally support this law, because it gives you the opportunity to take action against corruption, and you, honourable members of the government, and especially the representative of the government, are asked to enforce these laws even if it concerns government people, either the President of the NAV or its deputy. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-270	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Staudt Gábor, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor.
u2014-10-27-271	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I will shoot the joke at the beginning of my comment that we naturally support the proposal. There is no other way, since the Hungarian Parliament is fulfilling an old obligation when it legitimises this proposal. Do we have some additional comments, however, and in many respects? No matter how weird it is? But I must agree with my colleague Gergely Bárándy. And especially as to why it took so long to bring this bill before the National Assembly. I don't know if this one has one. and can the Secretary of State answer that here at the plenary session? Some kind of political, professional reason or someone in the ministry fell asleep, whose job was to review these international treaties. Or they have just found it, as my fellow Member Schiffer says, but this is not just a criticism of the Fidesz government, because the general justification is that the additional protocol that this House is now transposing was adopted by the Council of Europe on 15 May 2003. So it wasn't now, specifically, more than ten years ago. So this obligation has existed since then, and Hungary signed it at the time, and we can learn that, but it has not been ratified. So it did not actually enter into force, so we can put it this way, and Hungary was called on in June 2010 and in the report on Hungary, at the plenary session of the Group of States Against Corruption of the Council of Europe, in order to ensure that the passive and active form of bribery of domestic arbitration is also punishable by an appropriate amendment to the Criminal Code. Even then, nothing has happened, even though a few years have passed until 2010, and since 2010, it has been present until the moment that you have presented this. That is why I say, moreover, that this is also a serious omission towards previous governments. Until 2002, it was a Fidesz government, so it was almost Fidesz government to Fidesz government that the existence of this problem went on. And in the general explanation, because I tried to call on it, what could be the reason for this, what we find here is quite simply ridiculous, I cannot say otherwise, because the reason that we did not ratify it is because we did not amend Hungarian criminal laws in an appropriate way, because the previous Hungarian legislation did not allow...? This is exactly what we have committed to make our criminal laws compatible with this. So there's no reference to that, it's a wooden iron circle. What should have been done was that the Criminal Code should have been amended by the National Assembly in such a way as to make the arbitrations official, and their bribes, active or passive bribes, so that, in fact, if someone tries or bribes the arbitrations, he should also be punished, and this is the active form, and also the arbitration panel, who accepts this amount or benefits, they, too, call that passive form. [[Dr. János Latorcai is the vice-president of the Parliament.]] So we were completely surprised to see this process, and in addition to saying that we support it, we have serious concerns. We hope that all other international treaties or commitments are not tried to be ratified in this form, because this is a legislative shame. It is a shame to comply with our more than ten years of legislative and international obligations, which has happened here from government to government, or you really have to look at the ministry a little bit, why those who do this do not do their job and why they do not tell their leaders that there is a legislative obligation here. In the end, I'd like to tell you...? and here I do not want to go into actual political events to the same extent as, say, Gergely Bárándy did in front of me, although it is indeed quite spicy that the proposal on corruption is being presented to the Parliament right now, and especially for the economic sector, when the government is here about the US bans, everything it has done is just not an acceptable explanation. [[19.00]] Here we can also think of previous and NAV practices, which we experienced when we talked to inspectors or even customs and finance officers who perfectly said that it was impossible to go to the multinationals; which went in and wanted to book goods, for example, because the origin of that could not be determined, he was almost fired, and his bosses urged him that this could not be done, because there are places where control cannot be extended. This is the country we live in. That can be denied, of course, but that's what small entrepreneurs know, you know, people working in multi-company companies, you know. And let's not be deceitful, the government knows that. The main problem is that not only do you know, but the events of the last few days highlight that the main beneficiaries of this are businessmen close to government circles, or even government high positions or government high positions. This is the real problem, not just the existence of corruption, but the fact that it is raised to the state level. In conclusion, I would like to say here that the Budapest Police Headquarters Department does not have enough to do with corruption and economic crime, and I do not think that it is because there are no corruption cases, but do we see that? Corruption's gone, so you don't have enough to do? That they're going to have to conduct a criminal investigation. I think it's a legal curio in itself. I would also like to point out to Mr Secretary of State that I do not know how European examples or international examples are available, but that a department against corruption and economic crime has to investigate a criminality, so it is quite simply horritable. You can't see who made such a mistake here, who put it there, or who really put it there, but why, we don't know, or there really was free capacity there, because it seems that the fight against corruption is really being taken so seriously; it should be as unpleasant as otherwise this ratification, which has been formulated in the general statement of reasons and which has been going on for more than ten years. By the way, I would add that this was not so difficult to find out, as far as the law enforcement agency acting in connection with the abuse is concerned, as the police have posted it on their website, so you can get to know it on the official website. So instead of trying to hide the shame, they're even putting it out the window. This is a next step in professional competence; this should be done at least a little hidden. So with this comment, we can support the proposal. Of course, we agree with the basic objective, but what is going on today as a fight against corruption in Hungary is completely dissatisfied with it, and not only by us, but also by the way, an increasing percentage of voters. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to address the speaker from the LMP Group to Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-10-27-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Two Thirds Most! Do I think the current figures show that Fidesz is exactly what it is? I'm not gonna tell the KDNP because, except for Mr. President, that faction is empty? your attitude towards fighting corruption. Sorry, the notary's still KDNP. There's five of them in the horseshoe, one of them calls, two of them talking. In my opinion, these figures describe precisely how much they deal with the fight against corruption. In fact, it is a miracle that this proposal is being discussed in this House. Is it not just what my fellow Member Staudt said here that this is a 2003 treaty, and, as we know, has this country been governed by clean-handed governments since 2003? I guess you didn't think it was important to bring this treaty here? , but you're T/58. Bill? Earlier, under her maiden name T/14 thousand, I don't know exactly what number of bills she was running as in the previous term? author Tibor Navracsics, Minister of Public Administration and Justice, who, as we know, is no longer one, because the Ministry is no longer called that. Now, all of a sudden, in the last week, you have initiated the adoption of this convention. Now here's the Secretary of State for Home Affairs. This was handled by the Justice Department back in the day. There are really interesting questions about why the previous governments have delayed this ratification, and this agreement has not been important to you either. In the last week, somehow, as a rabbit, they pulled out this agreement to talk about it here, if not so much to you, but at least to each other, the three opposition factions. Why? Did they want to check something out? I am surprised because after today, in fact, I was prepared to say that the Secretary of State or the Fidesz lead speaker will say that corruption in Hungary has ceased. After today's Secretary of State responses, and what my fellow Member Staudt said, there is no case in the good business of the Department for Economic Protection and Anti-Corruption of the BRFK so far that he is chasing hooligans, I was prepared to announce solemnly that, if we are so keen on ratifying this agreement, but there is no corruption problem in Hungary. I can see that. What the Secretary of State Tállai has cut off in response this afternoon at the hour of immediate questioning follows. You don't think that's a problem. Dear Parliament, The situation is that Hungary has been mentioned in the third round evaluation report of the Group of States Against Corruption of the European Council, so to speak, that there is a recommendation that it should be ensured that the Btk. Its provisions should also cover the bribery of domestic complainants and ratify as quickly as possible the Additional Protocol to the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption. In Hungarian, nothing happened in Hungary until 2010. This is a failure of false left-wing governments, a failure of the first Orbán government. This report was issued in 2010. Something the previous government put together, pushed in front of the House, but until last week, it was not important for you to have this ratification before this House. So the eulogy should be treated a little more modestly. One more thing, in response to what my fellow Member Bárándy said. I'm not in a lucky position to know exactly what the U.S. government suspects, what it knows, why it's banned. The LMP believes that it is dangerous in this whole ban case that institutionalized corruption in Hungary has risen to such a level that there is a risk that countries with, say, more advanced secret services than Hungarians may have information, knowledge of matters that the Hungarian MP does not have either. From this point on, it is not just a question of the purity of public life, it is not about the country's judgment in itself. The point is that if such institutionalised corruption can be discussed simply in a country, there is a risk that foreign states may have information that can hold a country's government in check. That's the real danger in this whole disbarment case. Quite simply, in such a situation, the sovereignty and self-determination of a country are at stake. Of course, we also need to talk about the fact that the situation in Hungary is no longer the case after the last four years, that there are certain corruption cases here, that we are still putting in place some international conventions with a decade or two delay, and then we have solved everything. You have taken political corruption to a new level, and have institutionalised it. In many cases it is completely unnecessary to expand the scope of bribery, because what has been said in recent years is that what we call corruption in the ordinary sense of the word is in many cases not even criminally tangible. It was quite simply you who took it and did what you did to adapt legislation and institutions to the needs of your own economic interests. We see that different economic interests can control legislation according to their own business interests. A system has been developed where what has not happened in the last two decades is that various economic decoys pay off, influence, whisper to all kinds of ministerial people or representatives to get a little. [[19.10]] Did you turn this whole game into a system where you, the Fidesz-KDNP party association, its top leadership simply defines it in a power word, completely legitimately and legally? I wouldn't say fair? For example, who can be the biggest winners of public spending. That's what we're saying. It's the institutionalization of corruption. In previous government cycles, corruption cases could be talked about because they were involved in the joint, there were various messy cases, which, we admit, you didn't investigate, of course, there was no accountability after 2010, but at least there were the legal frameworks that if someone crossed, you could say that he had crossed over, that he had committed a crime, or that he had committed some kind of violation of the law. That's not the case right now. You shape the legal framework so that your economic interests can fit in nicely and comfortably. I am obliged to say this, Mr Secretary of State, because the environment that you have developed over the past four years unfortunately reduces to a great extent the importance of all such proposals, which are otherwise to be supported and supported by us. So the situation is that the 2010 report on Hungary's evaluation would now finally be in line with this bill declaring an international treaty that has passed from the last cycle. The lack of recognition of binding effect has so far been in the legal environment, because the Additional Protocol lays down rules on active and passive bribery of national and foreign arbitration. However, the former Hungarian legislation did not allow the penalty for bribery of the Hungarian arbitration panel, as the arbitration panel did not qualify as an official. This deficiency has since been removed, with effect from 1 January 2011 the old Btk. an official has been incorporated into the concept of the arbitration panel, the new Btk. And he kept it that way. This report also suggested that Hungary consider withdrawing the Hungarian reservation on Article 8 of the Convention. The reason for the reservation was the old Btk. did not order to punish passive bribery in the foreign private sector. However, this problem with the new Btk. has also been removed, and the reservation has now been withdrawn. It is very good that the negotiator has become an official person in Hungarian criminal law, but I think that at this point it would be good to dwell on the fact that the concept of the official person, especially with regard to acts of a corruption nature, should be further broadened in criminal law. So if we look at the extent to which the typical corruption activities have spread in Hungary, not only in the last four years, but in the last 25 years, we can see that in addition to the state administration, the area of public ownership is also the area of public companies. Therefore, we would suggest that the very detailed but perfectly inconsistent definition of the official in Btk be amended by the wallet, or put forward to Parliament an amendment to the Criminal Code, so that officials of non-listed public authorities and state-owned companies are also official persons. The LMP has a consistent position in this regard, as we believe that, with regard to all unfair income flows, state-owned municipal companies should be treated in the same way as public bodies and public administrations. This is also the case when we demand that state-owned municipal companies do not engage in any legal transaction, for example, with offshore companies. So what we are saying is that official quality is based not only on public authority but also on the exercise of the right to dispose of national assets or the granting of budgetary support. In recent years, too, a large number of cases of misdemeanour have been smeared, such as the fact that, where appropriate, those involved in these operations, where farmers with unfortunate fates have been made land runners, have been able to escape quite simply by the fact that their status does not constitute an official person in the current Btk. Based on the results of the study. In conclusion, we welcome the ratification of this convention. We are waiting for an answer as to why Parliament has not had time so far, why the Parliament has now suddenly had time. Of course, I would also be interested to know why the vast majority of two-thirds of the public bodies are so incomplete in the Hungarian Parliament, when, this afternoon, if it has not been said twenty-six times that Fidesz-KDNP is concerned about how important it is to fight corruption, then not once. And, of course, I would also like an answer to the government's agreement, at least in principle, to extend the scope of official persons to senior officials of state-owned municipal companies, simply in order to increase the effectiveness of the persecution of political corruption by involving the leaders of companies over public funds, over national assets, into this personal circle. Both the past cycle and the corruption cases of the preventive cycles show that this area is now at least as infected with this type of territory? How can I say this? ? unfair pressure, like public administration. So in this, I would expect your reply from the Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This is where we have the opportunity to speak, the first to speak, if any, by independent representatives. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Kontra on Charles' signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Attila Tilki, who spoke on behalf of the Fidesz faction, for his statement of support for the bill, and for which I would like to thank Mr T/929. I have also failed to do so with regard to the proposal, as I have just failed to do so. As regards the comments made by opposition colleagues, I started with the most important one. Several people asked why this bill is before the House now, why it was now being negotiated. Ladies and gentlemen, this also proves that the government is committed to fighting corruption. In 2010, we declared zero tolerance, and for this purpose we made important laws. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Why now?]] If you give me the opportunity, I will tell you, and I will address the details of this. Let me recite the timeline. I would like to point out in particular to my fellow Member Schiffer that Hungary signed Council of Europe Convention 173 on Criminal Law on Corruption on 26 April 1999? was the country's Fidesz government then? , then ratified on 22 November 2000, and the provisions of this Convention are set out in XLIX 2002. published by law and applicable from 1 July 2002. Péter Medgyessy's Socialist-Free Democratic Government took office on 27 May 2002 and the Additional Protocol to the Convention was subsequently adopted by the Council of Europe on 15 May 2003. Unfortunately for the country, the country was no longer governed by the Fidesz government, but by the socialist-free democratic government of Péter Medgyessy. [[Dr. András Schiffer: But it's been four years!]] Let me get this straight, Congressman. I have listened to you, and if you are not only a Democrat in words, but also in practice, if you give me the slightest sign of this, I will be honoured and accepted. So the second Orbán government that took office on 29 May 2010 declared zero tolerance in the fight against corruption [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It didn't work that well.]] in the face of every manifestation of corruption. Not only did it announce this, but in December 2010 it adopted a bill amending certain law enforcement laws in which it provided for the possibility of setting up the National Defence Service. The essential task of the National Defence Service is to ensure the functioning of public and administrative bodies without interference and to protect the necessary public and family members. This was a very important bill, as a result of which the National Defence Service was established as of January 1, 2011, the basis of which was not supported by any opposition party, the Hungarian Socialist Party, Jobbik and LMP. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Because it was a salad law!]] [[19.20]] They didn't support him. The National Defence Service became the strongest bastion in the fight against corruption. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What if he had been weaker?]] the results of which I will gladly provide information on the investigations carried out and the procedures initiated. I know it hurts for you that I mentioned this. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the drag queens?]] But indeed, the National Defence Service is a very important tool to fight corruption, and we thank all the staff of the Defence Service for their work in recent years. However, many of the opposition colleagues also did not support the proposal for new rules for national security control. They didn't support it. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why not? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: No!]] which also identified important instruments to combat corruption. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts that show that, on the one hand, our government is committed to fighting corruption and, on the other hand, why the opposition representatives then did not support these very important proposals. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because as we can see, they are useless. Noise, interruptions, the president's ringing.]] I reject the statements of my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I'd rather be answered.]] Also to Gábor Staudt about the public knowledge of corruption, how well he is known to customs, and you have been told a number of cases. Congressman, you have a legal obligation to be aware of a criminal offence. [[Dr. András Schiffer: File a report.]] , press charges, and then the Hungarian authorities will act. But don't embarrass the country, honourable Member. I also recommend this respectfully to Congressman Schiffer [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Jobbik always goes to foreign powers.]] who said he'd outlined a system to institutionalize corruption. I also reject this statement, and I would like to say [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't say that.]] that if you are aware of corruption, corruption, you should file a complaint and the Hungarian authorities will act. It is therefore very important that this bill is supported and adopted by the House, since it is in Hungary's national interest to adopt it. The Government is committed to fighting corruption, which is why it tabled this bill, and that is why I ask my fellow Members [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the drag queens? ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the NAV president?]] I'm here to support you with your vote. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-27-276	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of the 2014 amendment to the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and its Annexes will now follow. The submission was made in T/1225. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. I ask Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, if you would like to present your expo. [[Dr. János Fónagy nodds.]] Yes, I'll give you the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-277	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill provides for the publication of the 2014 amendment to the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and its Annexes. Hungary has been party to this agreement since 2002, the annual amendments of which should be published in law under the International Contracts Procedures Act. The amendments for 2014 concern an article and five annexes to the agreements. Among other things, the rules on the accommodation and provision of goods and vehicles and the filling in of the bill of lading vary. By publishing this year's amendments, the international transport railway undertakings operating in Hungary will be able to apply the terms of the agreement in a simpler manner in the direct international traffic of goods during their transport on the railway lines of the Member States. I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/1225. To discuss, adopt and support the publication of the agreement and its annexes. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-278	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker, followed by the speech of the first independent Member and the speeches of his representatives. I give the floor to Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-279	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very important to have more goods traffic on the railway as much as possible. An important goal for a modern state is to centralise freight traffic on rails wherever possible, making our roads less loaded and safer. We all experience the inconveniences of overloaded roads and see the dangers, the negative, sometimes tragic consequences. It is a cliché that the enormous trade in goods on the roads is seriously damaging the environment, and because of their high carbon monoxide emissions, it also has a negative impact on climate change. Transport on the rail will be more efficient, greener and climate friendly. To facilitate this, we want to make it easier, but the positive impact of this proposal is that rail exports will be easier and simpler, which can also help the economy to grow. Ladies and gentlemen, We, representatives of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association, support this motion. Please do the same if you want easier and better freight. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-280	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr István Józsa. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the MSZP fraction also supports the proposal, because it is an obligation that is in line with an international treaty and, as has been said, indeed improves the functionality of rail freight. Therefore, the fact that the Agreement on International Carriage of Goods by Rail and the publication of the 2014 amendment to its Annexes are T/1225. We are voting in favour of bill No. 1. At the same time, the question is whether the government will comply. In the context of this agenda, it must be said that the carriage of goods by rail should not be a declining, deteriorating quantitative and qualitative sector, but that the government makes use of all possibilities for, for example, the RoLa...? which could directly redirect the large freight traffic from the road, free the load by rail transport, or by rail transport at several borders, east or east, what competitive position Hungary can take, this competitive position will improve or deteriorate. Unfortunately, in the opinion of professional organisations, this competitive position is not improving. In several areas, Slovakia has come before us or increased its advantage, and the fact that everyone has accepted that rail freight is much more environmentally advantageous than road transport, together with a natural process, which shows that because of the practicality, there is an increasing number of truck freight and that it has failed to reverse the trend, which is, of course, in line with the fact that the motorway network has been built in Hungary, which is fundamentally positive, but it has this downside that the bulk of freight transport is moving from rail to road more and more. So when we look at this bill, which provides for the announcement of an agreement on international rail freight, and indeed Hungary has been a party to this agreement for more than ten years since 2002, it has always complied with the annual obligation to amend, let us think about what basic goals this international agreement serves and whether the Hungarian government still has further opportunities for this common goal. Are they according to professional organizations? , to which it is worth moving, it is worth working. [[19.30]] So the comprehensive reform that the Fidesz government promised before 2010 and then even more so that the reform of the Hungarian Railways, including rail freight transport, will be carried out, we see that it is delayed and waiting for itself. You were very active as an opposition in the period 2007-2008 when the government at the time attempted to reform and modernise rail transport. Then they took a conservative, stabilizing position. Since then, we have seen them talking about how good it would be if the level of rail transport were to increase if the volume of rail freight were to increase. In addition to the steps taken in this regard, in addition to, say, mobilising tangible EU funds, or what is judged is actually being used to modernise the railway station? I would add that, according to many people, at a high specific price, that is, according to expert opinions, the modernisation of the railway track in the area of Sayol has exceeded all specific values or ideas, so that it might be possible, and indeed, to make much more efficient use of these EU funds? In addition, as opposition parties, we expect the government to take stronger steps to ensure that rail freight represents a much greater share in Hungary by optimising and coordinating the use of regulation and resources, thus also helping to protect the environment and to operate economically. So when you talk about the reindustrialisation of the country in general, please also talk about the reindustrialisation of rail transport, because large-scale industrial production and rail freight transport must be closely linked, the two assume each other. And if we don't see in rail freight the boom you're talking about in boosting industrial production, then maybe I'm just saying both of them. We would like the government to bring to Parliament, in addition to the introduction and publication of the agreement, the concept of the railway that we have heard a lot about, you have spoken a lot, you have spoken a lot, you have spoken a lot, we have seen only relatively little. So I would like to take this opportunity to legislate the publication of the agreement on rail freight in order to draw attention to their lag in this area, at least in relation to their needs and their own promises. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-282	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ander Balázs. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In advance of Mr President's possible criticisms, we know precisely that I know that this bill presents us with very concrete proposals. I do not wish to deviate from this. However, I must say that I have jumped over the Russian parts, since I have not dealt with Russian for 24 years, but we trust the government, at least at this level, that the translation is authentic. Well, given that Hungary's geographical position makes it an important hub for European rail Corridors, yes, we will accept the amendment of the law and the bill. However, it should also be pointed out that, until striking cardinal changes are made to the railway sector, all such amendments can be regarded as, in fact, a kind of Christmas tree ornament, a cosmetic of the situation. Much more comprehensive reforms would be needed to make real use of the capacities in this sector. In recent years, despite indeed significant rail developments that are to be achieved and expected in the future, there is unfortunately still a huge gap between existing and truly realistic needs and the resources available. Although, once again, let us stress that we recognise the forward-looking, let us say, improvements in some segments of the railway that have occurred in recent years. However, if we want to meet the transport policy requirements, which stress that the share of energy and environmentally friendly modes of transport will increase in the division of labour in transport, we must stop again and say that road freight transport must indeed be shifted to rail and inland waterway transport, because without it we cannot meet this requirement. If we also take into account the often said, often heard, specific negative external costs, then it should be said that in Hungary the cost of rail externalities is only half the cost of damage to road freight transport, i.e. to tonne-kilometres. Although it should be added that this is still much higher than in, say, neighbouring countries, I do so in Austria or Romania. So there's a way to make progress here, too, that's a possibility. At present, only 18 percent of this annual volume of around 50 billion tonnes of goods, of which only 12 percent of other resources are involved in rail transport, to which we have to say that this is a very low figure and indeed to be developed. In particular, if we are thinking of the 2011 EU Transport White Paper, where very specific targets have been set by 2030, 30% of road freight traffic should be directed to rail by 2050, and this should reach 50 per cent. However, if we go on like this, unfortunately we have to say that this is not going to happen, because this is not real. It is well known that the competitive disadvantage of domestic intermodal transport is significant over the road. Here, professional organisations usually mention a very high fee for the use of the track, which is really nonsense when we think, for example, of the fees applied in Belgium or the Netherlands or in Switzerland, which is not even half of Hungary. My fellow Member mentioned the Rola sector, which ended at the end of 2012. When you think about it, what that meant, in particular, was that 30-40,000 trucks were dumped on the already overloaded roads. According to some professional calculations, the damage to this is about HUF 5 billion per year, and now I say the lowest amount, which is about HUF 5 billion. The same is true of container truck traffic, which could also be carried out by rail. The damage that happens here on the roads, and again I would like to mention the lowest amount, is at least HUF 8 billion. So we're already talking about a lot of over $10 billion that could be saved. However, the delay in other comparisons is also very, very significant. While the proportion of two-track lines in the European Union is 42 percent, this ratio is actually around 15 percent in Hungary and we also have a lot to work on in terms of electrification. High-speed transport is available at about 200 kilometres of the 7700 km track, which, to be seen, is an incredibly low number, which is certainly a cause for shame in a European comparison. On the other hand, there is a speed limit for about 2800 to 3000 kilometres of track in the trans-European rail freight network, which is no wonder. If we look at the energy and resources spent on track maintenance, we will have to face a shocking lag. While before the change of regime, let's say in 1986, I met a renewed phase of 217 kilometers, there was a year after the change of regime when it was only four kilometers away. And if you look at the 24-25 years since the change of regime, you can expect only 20 kilometers of refurbished orbit each year on average. That's very, very little. [[19.40]] It is better not to talk about the rail bridges of the Corridor Lines, because in this respect we do have great, great sadness in relation to the European comparison. The average age of the 900 MÁV-Traction locomotives is 35 years, even though the planned life span at the time of design was about 30 years. So the stock has grown old, not competitive. Or I could mention the rail performance index developed by the Boston Consulting Group. The Secretary of State knows exactly what this is about. According to the RPI, Hungary has received 3 points out of the maximum 10 points, so we are in the lower segment. Everything has been taken into account, the intensity of use, speed, accuracy, security, so we have a place to develop. Obviously, as I explained at the beginning, nevertheless, and in addition to these, Jobbik naturally supports the amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-27-284	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak with representatives. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes, thank you.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-285	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, in advance, to thank you for your support for the proposal, and therefore, in return, I should like to read some of the articles from the proposal with a somewhat educational intention, because they have shown that they may have missed some of the paragraphs when they have made very heartwarming contributions to me, since those present know that I have a concern for the railway. Just a few sentences from the presentation as an example. The distance beams shall be determined on the basis of Table I for each non-complete level in each distance frame and distance structure for long-distance insurance, depending on the weight of the gauge sizes and the boxes and group of unit loads to be provided. Or, at random, can be transported on a backing tree, on a more well-known name, and using support structures, by means of a cylinder-shaped article which is permanently fitted with technology supports, such as welding, screwing and cutting, provided that they are intended, inter alia, for the purposes of rail transport, as specified in the technical documentation, in Chapter I or V of this Code? to which the amendments apply? shall be placed and secured in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. It's about this, which you will support, which I thank you again. But given that, my fellow Member? How can I say this? crystal clear logically, he took it in his lecture. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] Allow me to take them seriously and not to put them on public humor. One is the importance of the railway concept and rail transport. My fellow Member, Józsa, is that it? How can I say this? Even if it's not humor, it's in the absurd sense that you're talking about the importance of the railroad, who've eliminated 37 sidelines. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's what I said!]] You speak when you can act as a party to the current railway picture referred to by Congressman Ander, and you can communicate those average numbers with more or less groundedness. [[Ander Balázs: That's true!]] For example, about the technical condition of the 7600 kilometres of Hungarian rail network and the 4,000 kilometres on which, unfortunately, rail slowing signals are still on the market. But I don't dispute your intention to improve. By the way, in 2012, the Law on Passenger Transport, which was adopted with your support and thanks to you right now, but it was essentially the Railway Act that ranked the modes of transport and said that, in this context, public transport, rail, rail, which inevitably uses the same network and the same energy feed system as the freight rail. I do not want to say the circumstances that you know about, I stress, in connection with a proposal on another subject, but, as a result of the changes, we took over the railway in 2010 with a debt of 330 billion. As a reminder, in 2002, when we handed over the government, the debt of the Hungarian railway was 27 billion. That's not a small amount of money, but we got it back with 330 billion debts. The then unified Hungarian railway was fragmented and crushed in more than 80 smaller or larger companies. In the period since then, the railway debt is now around 150 billion, which is still a lot of money, but less than half of 330 billion. The Hungarian railway is united again, there is practically an independent railway station and there is a passenger railway. As a reminder and for the record, the current government is trying to take back the MÁV-Cargo you sold, either to participate in it or to upgrade it. As far as future tasks are concerned, both my lead speakers are absolutely right, which is part of the importance of the freight railway. It is no coincidence that, in the 2014-2020 EU development cycle, we want to spend 1,000 billion out of the 1500 billion available for infrastructure specifically for rail development. Given that the European Union basically supports TEN-T lines, i.e. transcontinental lines, a significant part of them obviously comes from transit roads in Hungary, and therefore the network primarily serving domestic traffic should and will be provided from domestic sources. Engines: Unfortunately, rolling stock is also in a position. As a reminder, I am referring only to the events of the last few days or weeks. For that reason, the 42 train trains have begun to move to the suburban system, the first two trains have been completed. The Hungarian railway machine production has revived. In Szolnok, either the foreign company in the case of motor trains, or the company of the MÁV has been prominent in the development and re-production of intercity trains in the last few days. Indeed, the acquisition of locomotives is true. The average age, which can only slightly change...? By the way, the first Fidesz-government purchased 15 electric locomotives. Finally, not to waste their patience and time, I would ask you to acknowledge that goods are essential for the transport of goods and goods suitable for transport by rail. Today, Europe's economy and, in particular, the economy of Central Europe have a relatively small demand for bulk goods, i.e. bulk goods requiring rail transport in particular. In fact, container transport today is not in the best interests of rail transport in the world, in Europe and in Hungary. At RoLa, please note that at the time, before our accession to the EU, RoLa was primarily encouraged by the fact that whoever used the RoLa received the bonus to enter Western European countries. That's one thing. [[19.50]] The other is that RoLa's technology has changed: today, not the whole train, only the putty, the container is placed on the wagon, which assumes that both the sender and the destination have machines available to the freight forwarder. Today, only a few large carriers can afford to do so in Hungary, so domestic, predominantly small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in some cars, are obviously at a disadvantage in such a system. At the same time, given the benefit of RoLa, which both my fellow Members have expressed, the Government intends to do all of RoLa's activities technically, since due to the dispatch-receiving stations this requires technical development, both the applicable wagons, so only the puttons, the containers...? not least the international agenda? It is very important to improve so that the delivery period does not increase, as well as when setting the fee, in conjunction with the relevant European conventions. I would therefore like to thank you once again for your support for this proposal, thanking the President for his kind understanding of the technical detour, and ask for the same intensity to support the railway during the negotiations on the budget to be negotiated in the near future. Thank you for your attention and patience.
u2014-10-27-286	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on International Carriage of Passenger Transport and Freight by Road until closure. The submission is T/1126. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will conduct the detailed discussion of this proposal as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-287	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The agreement prepared jointly with the Serbian co-ministery was signed in Belgrade on 1 July 2014 in the framework of the Hungarian-Serbian government summit. The Convention governs the conditions and framework for the transport of passengers and goods by road through bilateral or transit. Conventional regulation of road connections is in the interest of both parties because it can facilitate further expansion of bilateral trade relations and trade in goods, creating opportunities for the development of passenger transport and indirectly tourism. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/1126 Please adopt a bill tabled and support the publication of the Convention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-288	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Attila Tilki, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, It is of particular importance for Hungarian-Serbian relations that we adopt this bill, as transport will be easier, tourism will be easier, cross-border cooperation will be easier for the economic world, citizens and civilians as well. Serbia is our increasingly important southern neighbour, with whom we have closer cooperation than ever before. One of the most important achievements of Hungarian foreign policy is that our relations with our neighbours are clearly improving. But a good friendship requires more than just good political relations. Vigorous economic and civil cooperation is also of particular importance. To this end, it is essential to make transport between the two countries as easy as possible. Not least, of course, better transport can bring the Hungarians from the south and the Hungarians from the motherland closer together. This is a vital issue for the Hungarian minority of Serbia after nearly a hundred years of separation. Ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance, this bill can only be supported, as we do. If you want a better, stronger, more friendly relationship with Serbia, a stronger foreign economy, a lighter life for the southern Hungarians, if that's what you want, then vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-290	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Kiss. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to take on this thread, which my fellow Member has just started, because I think that these proposals also have an important meaning in the national policy context, and I think that, and the MSZP also thinks that this approach, in which this proposal is also worth discussing, can be a very interesting and exciting issue, not to dispute, of course, that the concrete one that is obviously about passenger transport and freight transport can be a very interesting question. We can say that the MSZP is precisely because we believe that this kind of approach and this kind of agreement can mean a bridge between Hungarian and Hungarian in Serbia and Hungary, so we support this proposal and support all directions that push the Hungarian-Serbian relationship in a more positive direction. We would like to appreciate that this proposal has been made. We consider this to be very important because we believe that there are other directions that need to be developed in Hungarian-Serbian relations. There are definitely results, by the way. We consider this proposal to be such a result, but allow me to explain a little bit what we would like to see in the next few months, in a few years, in which we also believe that there are still unsolved tasks. We feel it is good that we have this initiative before us, as we believe it is equally good that President János Áder and President Tomislav Nikolics have jointly heads-up on the Vojvodina Csúrog in connection with the commemoration of the innocently executed Hungarian victims in the Second World War. We consider this to be a very, very important and good initiative, but we are no longer so pleased that a concrete step has not been taken after this nice gesture. Is it important that it should happen because perhaps it is not so well known to everyone that the Serbian Government has not taken a decision to repeal the decision of seven decades ago, which is three Hungarian settlements in Vojvodina? Ripping, Mozsor and Razor? has collectively declared its population guilty. We consider it very important to follow such and similar agreements, which are ahead of us, because this is also the task of the Hungarian negotiator. The naturalization of diplomas obtained in Hungary could be another stage in improving Serbian-Hungarian relations, which could be a cultural convention, such as the Hungarian Cultural Institute? which has just been delivered in Belgrade and has also been welcomed, and a positive direction? fill it with content. That's exactly why we can't do this right now. There is no joint Hungarian-Serbian minority committee, which is interesting because, in the absence of this, it is particularly difficult to talk about professional matters and to negotiate them in substance. Obviously, the preparation of the proposal clearly shows that, despite the fact that this committee does not work, it is still in front of us, but I think it does not take much imagination to understand that in the event that this Joint Committee could agree on all policy issues, we could have more proposals like this. We therefore initiate the government to take this initiative. We consider it very important that joint government meetings have taken place with the Serbian party. I note that this is the form that the Hungarian Socialist Party would consider important for all neighbouring countries to have such joint government meetings between the Hungarian and the other parties. The truth is that if we think that each party should sit down and hold such joint government meetings, then we must acknowledge that, where this happens and produces concrete results, this is definitely something that I think is commendable. [[20.00]] This convention is also an example of the meaning of Hungarian-Romanian, Hungarian-Slovak or later Hungarian-Ukrainian or Hungarian-Austrian consultations, as well as joint government summits. In this case, we see this as a clear success, and we believe that this could result in similar success elsewhere. Obviously, there is still room for improvement in the transport area. We believe that this presentation before us will certainly serve this kind of approach, too, that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán says that our goal is to reduce Belgrade-Budapest by at least half, currently 7-8 hours. I don't think there's a debate in this House, everyone's common goal is to achieve this, and at the same time? Now back to the previous item on the agenda? this can be achieved within the framework of a common rail development, which will again be welcomed by everyone in this House. We must say that, apart from this, the collective stigma of Southern Hungarians after the Second World War is a painful point that cannot be ignored. I'd like to ask for the government? And I'm not sure it's Secretary of State Major who needs to be held accountable for this, but allow me to interpret this through you on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party? that it would be desirable that the government, by means of diplomatic means, would be able to eliminate the unworthy stigma of Hungarians, as the Presidents of the two countries could do against each other. I think that an apology by the Serbian state in this matter could certainly be worthwhile, and we obviously need to practice this gesture of forgiveness when it arrives. Could it be equally important? And this is also not a mistake between the Secretary of State and the agenda before us, so to speak, but can't we just walk past it? The fact that the expulsion of Hungarians from the labour market in Southern Hungary and the demand for job shares can in any case be the content of a later concrete agreement, as well as the missing Hungarian textbooks. They are sorely absent from Hungarian schools, the Hungarian minority is difficult to learn, it is difficult to obtain the modern curriculum, because these textbooks are not or only partially completed. And it is possible to hear about anti-Hungarian atrocities in the press, and in time they will calm down, and sometimes they will grow stronger, and of course they will have to be spoken about. At the same time, do we think that in the event that this agreement means a normalization of the Serbian-Hungarian relationship, and if it means that the issues the Socialist Party considers important to talk about? the issue of the southern Hungarians, the question of the stigmatisation of the southern Hungarians after the Second World War, the question of the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, the intellectual accessibility of the southern Hungarians, the question of introducing modern textbooks in Hungarian? We will welcome the fact that there will be dozens of such agreements before us. Let us say that we are in good faith, and we think that this agreement is the first sign of this, we look forward to more. In this way, I can provide support to the government both in relation to this agreement and in relation to any other similar agreement on the subject proposed by the MSZP. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-27-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Tibor Bana, is next. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik is in favour of the bill for the adoption of the Convention, but I would certainly like to make some comments on the proposal. One is that rail is dominant in Serbian freight transport, and this is supported by data from 2013 and this issue has also been highlighted here at the previous agenda. Therefore, it would be important to take substantial steps to refurbish the tracks and to refurbish the Budapest-Belgrád railway line; in this connection, we have recently been informed of positive developments. I trust that the events will accelerate to a sufficient degree. Another important issue which is related to the proposal before us is the question of opening new border crossing points. In this respect, too, the government has made serious commitments in the context of a closer approach to the EU average, since at present the situation at the Hungarian-Serbian border is that it is a border crossing on an average of 27 kilometres, whereas the EU average is about 5-6 kilometres. In any case, we must move in this direction. And what else is a problem on this border? Have I referred to this in connection with a previous bill? That is the high number of illegal border crossings and the issue of smuggling. I also support this with concrete data: until September more than 8,000 border offenders have been caught, and it is clear that the situation in the Middle East is not improving, so this number will certainly increase. By the way, Hungary is not the target of illegal border crossings, but they are moving to the West, Germany, France is their main target. A few days ago, the news is that 171 illegal immigrants were caught in one day; this is also a warning signal, so it is important that the government allocates additional resources to this area. With these additions, I can confirm that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary can support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have further speeches from our representatives. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak on the subject. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] He wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-27-295	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the leading speakers of the factions present for their support, and then I found that, at the general level, I would like to ask that this be taken from me in a good way. I think that both the agendas that we have just discussed, but the road connections that we are discussing are also an integral part of the system of relations, the importance of which has been stressed by both key speakers. Would you like to remember that? Because it wasn't in the expo or in the comments? That our responsibility is not only in relation to the two countries, but that Hungary is also responsible for the European Union's Schengen borders, so all the work that the Member has said is a perfectly natural and well-known task. I believe that strengthening these, both in the rail approach of the capitals and cities of the neighbouring countries, and in the road border crossing points, is a natural goal for us to achieve increased safety. Thank you again for your support. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-27-296	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. [[Schmuck Elizabeth sneezes.]] Cheers. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Thank you.]] We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. Now... [[Another congressman sneezed.]] Looks like it's sticky. [[Defiance.]] Cheers, Congressman. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju has applied for a speech after today's agenda:, If it is not enough, the problem is that there is too much. Is it bad? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-297	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In this apple situation, which some of my fellow Members have already spoken about in a few words today, I think it should be mentioned. In fact, do I have to consider the situation that came from farmers in Szabolcs County as a cry for help, and the reason for that is that they have essentially known it since the beginning of the year? You know the professionals, you know the producers and many others? that not only in Hungary, but also in Europe, there is a significant surplus of apples. So the capacities available in Hungary, which concern either processing or storage? Taking into account the fact that the 2013 reserves are still in place? , they create significant tensions in Hungary. [[20.10]] This appears in the price, appears in the producers. Thus, the 7500 businesses producing in Hungary on less than 30,000 hectares are in a very difficult situation. This was also affected by the fact that, as a result of the political situation, the economic embargo, which was born against Russia, has become significantly limited to transport there, and therefore producers are very affected by the situation. In August, there was a very serious call for attention from producers. We also saw that the government's limited capacity led the Minister to make a big mistake for the first time when he had already revealed himself early and talked about how big a crop would be. In view of this, prices appeared accordingly on the market, essentially at a level below the cost of production. This meant that farmers would have to make significant losses during this period. The Hungarian Government apparently did not want to help, and could not help, even when the European Union provided support for this. Hungary has not been able to make use of this aid in substance. By the time the Hungarian tender was opened, the European Union had already run out of access. The fact that the Hungarian government tried to help in the purchase or purchase of a box of around HUF 3 billion does not change this circumstance and does not change it. With all due respect, the cries for help coming to us clearly prove that everything that has happened so far is little. Therefore, even as a member of the Democratic Coalition, based on the opinion of our agricultural group and our professional group, everything that has happened so far is not enough. Accordingly, further steps are needed to ensure that most of the 7500 producers do not fail. At a low and depressed price, the only thing that can be suffered is that those involved in the processing of existing pome fruits also receive support. And, uh, see a miracle, and that includes the Fidesz Members who are involved in the processing, by the way. And then no wonder, I quote from this cry for help, when it's about who's in charge of this process:, those of our friends who took us out on the street at the time, for the sake of a fair price, who then shouted that the price would be that much. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So, with all due respect, what's happened so far is not enough, and the government has a responsibility. It is therefore necessary to ask what the government is doing to offset the embargo; what they are doing to reduce the remaining stocks in 2013; and what the Hungarian government is doing to help 7500 producers. I mean, so far, many have had hope, since they have a beautiful 40-acre apple? his life's work will be ruined for farmers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-27-298	The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. [[Dr. István Józsa: He's not here either.]] Congresswoman Márta Demeter, from the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech after the agenda:. Where is the forward? It's called the "I." Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-27-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to begin by highlighting here the attitude of State Secretary Fónagy in the debate on the announcement of an amendment to the Agreement on International Carriage of Rail, because it was very good to hear that Members, State Secretarys, such people debated and shared their views with each other? Was there a meaningful dialogue? The people you're talking about are the people you care about, and they're really concerned about the solution. In my heart, I would like to see this kind of attitude in two areas very close to my heart, in foreign policy and in the field of defence. But I would like to say a few sentences about foreign policy, since we have seen that in Hungary, when the regime changed, there was such a serious moral capital? With a joint effort? which has given rise to great international recognition. This made us a reliable, stable and predictable partner. With internationally recognised acts such as the opening of the border, we have established that democracy can be an organic development in Hungary, and not just a sample follow-up. We worked and developed in harmony with our allies and partners. We were proud Hungarians and proud Hungary. And here I would like to highlight one of the points in our proposal for a resolution: Hungary's accession to the European Union and NATO, confirmed by a referendum, was based on a conscious choice of value and responsibility. The field of action and prosperity of Hungary is the European Union, and NATO is, in the longer term, the depositary of European common security, the primary guarantee of Hungary's security. It's a matter of fact. Since the change of regime, Hungarian foreign policy has been determined by three priorities. One is Euroatlantic integration, the second is good neighbourly relations and the third is national policy. We have seen that these priorities have sometimes changed with the rotation of governments, but these three have always been in focus, and they have always had a healthy proportion and balance. But these are the history? Let's see where we are today. Where does the government think he's going? After all, we can see that we have managed to find ourselves in diplomatic conflict with 15 EU countries in recent years. We can see that the government closes important embassies, such as the Tallinn embassy or the Cypriot embassy. What we can see is that the opening of the East is a huge success story for both the government and the Foreign Minister, but they cannot support it in any number of ways. And today we can see that László Fat would be backing out of the EU, but he would do so with great caution. And what we've faced in the last few days and weeks is the move of the United States to ban more people from the United States, and they can't enter its territory. This, I think, is unprecedented and a very significant diplomatic signal from an ally. And in spite of this sign, somehow as if the government did not understand it, would you not take it seriously, it seems that John Lazarus too? Like the rest of the government? He's constantly deflecting. That includes the Prime Minister, who is also pointing his finger at the United States. However, the government cannot be so blind that it does not realize what the problem is: it is clear that there is a complete lack of transparency in Hungary. Here, I could mention the things you've seen in recent years, the various purchases. And these appear both in the government and in government measures. We can talk about specific cases. The government could start to change these matters, and it should finally think and act responsibly. I would add that there are many things that the government does not even inform its own pro-government representatives. So if we go this way, it's a policy of conscious isolation. And just because the government has allures doesn't make Hungary a great power. Orbán must also understand that. And it is necessary to suspend the policy of fidesz party interests, narrow group interests, that the government constantly lies to national interests. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-300	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I respectfully inform the Congresswoman that the representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has also applied for a post-meeting speech from the MSZP Group:. Out of the EU? How's this gym gonna work out? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[20.20]]
u2014-10-27-301	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I would like to stay with Speaker László Fat. Speaker László Fat spoke on Thursday on Echo TV about the EU's perceived dictatorships. I would quote: I think that if this is the future of the European Union, then it would be worth thinking about how we should back out of this slowly and carefully. If László Kövér is talking about moving out of the European Union slowly, it is very important to say that today 97 percent of the investment has EU funding and EU funding. After this number, it would be very difficult to make any investment in Hungary today. I would like to give you a specific example here, and here I would like to talk a little more about the problems caused by everyday physical education. In 2012, the Fidesz-KDNP government introduced daily physical education in the system, from professionals to professional organisations, teachers, teachers' union, family representatives, all warned the government that very hard conditions were lacking for the introduction of daily physical education. There are no suitable gymnasiums, there are not enough gymnasiums, there are no suitable hygiene rooms for children, and this is how everyday physical education was introduced in 2012. A few days ago, an article was published, as the bomb is going to go off properly next year, if you can say so, as daily physical education is being introduced every year, and it should be mentioned here that, in addition, compulsory religious or ethical introduction has appeared, and this year the number of skills, such as singing lessons, has been increased in the course. So, next year the bomb is going to explode, and professional organizations say that about 400-500 gymnasiums are missing in Hungary today, which should now be built very quickly. While we see that stadium construction is much more important for this government, which costs taxpayers nearly HUF 180 billion, we see that 3 billion forints will be earmarked for gym building next year and HUF 3 billion for school development. Of the HUF 3 billion, 23 swimming pools are expected to be built in the country, and it is outrageous that there is essentially no indication of the problem that this will cause. I'd like to tell you a few things about this as a practicing mother. He showed up at the children's gym class in the zero hour. It appeared that teachers are teaching gymnastics in theoretical education. It appeared that there was a shortage of teachers in the field of physical education. We're starting to have a physical education class in Kaban, starting with the German teacher. The most important thing in preparing the schedule is that the entire curriculum is adapted to the course of physical education, because poor teachers have to adapt to that, so that everything is fine. So, there's been a violent introduction. I would like to read here that in 2012, after the introduction of the programme, the State Secretariat sent a questionnaire to 3184 schools in the country, to which 1586 schools responded. According to the feedback, daily physical education is a serious problem in about a quarter of schools, often unsolved. In the question of the practical obstacles encountered during the introduction, 58 percent of the institutions replied that there were insufficient gyms and sports fields. There's a lot to talk about, and what we see is that if we break down the budget for the fans in the stadium in Felcsút, how much they got, it's around HUF 3.5 million. Think about it, there will be 6 billion forints for gymnastics and swimming pool development for over 750,000 children. I think the numbers are talkative, and I really hope the government doesn't think of this as what László Fat said recently. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-27-302	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your case, the representative of the government has also indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. What should we fear instead of Ebola? It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-303	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, While there is no hour to prevent news of the Ebola, there are viruses far more dangerous and much more present among us than the Ebola virus matured as the autumn hit. It is incomprehensible that every day in Hungary, too, we deal with news from all sources, abroad, news from Spain, America, American cases, and even domestic news sources, which, already visualized its appearance in Hungary, have created false news, causing quite a panic in Pécs. The public's reaction to false news shows that there is no good information about Ebola, nor is there a general concern about other dangerous viruses. Of course, it is important to deal with stopping the spread of Ebola. For example, it would not be detrimental for the government to provide information on the plans to prevent infection, how the Hungarian health care prepared for the onset of the disease, whether there are appropriate institutions for the separation and treatment of suspicious or infected patients, what is the situation in the countryside, whether there are appropriate measures and opportunities to detect the system of contact between the patients screened, or, for example, whether there will be airport inspections in Hungary, how refugees will be examined or where Ebola can be treated in Hungary at all, and in what way. But it would be more important for the government to focus attention on other important viruses and their dangers instead of Ebola. It would be important, since people are now the most susceptible to prevention, and this could also serve as the public's preparation and awareness needed by the news tsunami of the overworked Ebola virus in order to prevent current viral infections that pose a real risk. For example, rotavirus is a more serious problem than Ebola. According to experts, 95 percent of children meet this virus in the first few years of their life, and 82 percent of children under five are responsible in developing countries. Every year, 440,000 children fall victim to rotavirus, most of the time the cause of death is dehydration. At present, this occurs as an epidemic in a small community in Hungary. But here's the HIV virus everyone knows. Only 1.6 million people died in 2012 because of HIV-infected and AIDS-related diseases around the world. But there is a serious threat to enterovirus 68 or enterovirus 71, which boasts in China of 4500 infected children in a very short period of time, in about the same amount of time as the Ebola virus, the symptoms of which, like polio, result in polio and are also difficult to control. Instead of ebolapanik built on a fear campaign, we could pay attention to teaching the public how to prevent nearby viruses. For example, the government could inform you about the dangers of hepatitis B or what to do with rotavirus. Now would be an opportunity to raise awareness of the fight against viruses, the general measures to be taken against viruses, the ways of treatment, the vaccinations available, or the lack of them. Overall, it can be concluded that the government will lose the fertile and susceptible breeding ground in the area of prevention of viral infections, now that the Ebola has opened its doors. Instead, the government on all fronts? can you see it: Ebola or general epidemic prevention? the SAO is silent and at the very least able to respond to misleading news, hoax, by judicial procedure, and to repeat an EU information in which trivial information is kept being provided. Is the panic caused by the Ebola, the deep silence of the government in this case, or is the general epidemiological inactivity more dangerous? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs from Jobbik's group also applied for a post-meeting speech:. Somogyország eliminates itself, or the population disaster of Somogy County II. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman. [[20.30]]
u2014-10-27-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After last week's European demographic outlook, narrowing the circle to Somogy County, I would like to focus more on Hungarian data this time. The demographic crisis in Hungary has been going on since 1958, and the total fertility rate has first decreased to below 2.1 that is essential for reproduction, i.e. fewer children born than would have been enough to sustain the population. And in 1962, compared to the population, we had the least children in the world. The destruction of socio-national consciousness, the atomicisation of the social fabric system, the disintegration, disintegration of large families with multigenerational, differentiated division of labour, the lack of a family-friendly employment policy, the epidemic spread of deviancies dangerous to society, the increasing uncertainty of the conditions necessary for child rearing and the growth of social anomics have only been repeated by the population for four years between 1974 and 77. However, thanks to the laws of population dynamics, natural weight loss became visible only after 1980, since the shift of about two decades is characteristic of demographic cycles. This is why the problem that started earlier became noticeable only from 1981, when the country's population fell from 10 million 707,000 people to 10 million 700 thousand people in the previous year. Since the peak in 1954 the number of births has now fallen from 223 thousand to 90 thousand, deaths have increased from around 100,000 to over 130,000, the average number of children has fallen from 2.5 to 1.3, which means that the population is halved from second generation to second generation. The abortion decree introduced by the communists on 4 June 1956 with obvious genocidal intent, and since the launch of Endlosung against the Hungarians, some 8 million miscarriages were carried out, and in the early 60s there was a year, say, in 1962, when each birth was subject to statistically one and a half abortions. The population of Hungary has now fallen from 10 million levels of 700 thousand in 1980 to less than 10 million by 7.5 percent. Natural weight loss is considered to be the lowest figure so far, it reached almost 50,000 in 1999, and if current trends do not change, the population of Trianon truncated Hungary will fall to 7.5 million by the middle of the century, even according to more optimistic estimates. Apart from Jobbik, no one dares to talk about the ethnic restructuring behind mere numbers. While from the population of 10 million people of 700 thousand in 1980, according to the classification of population counters, there were some 341 thousand, so the number of Roma could be 3.2 percent, while the current population of 9 million people of 900 thousand were about 900 thousand. In addition to the fact that over the past two and a half decades many of our cross-border national brothers have relocated from the ripped areas, we can say that the number of Hungarians in Truncatedland has decreased by around 1 million 600 thousand since 1980, which corresponds to about 15 percent weight loss. The reasons for the extremely low level of child-bearing willingness in European comparison are very wide-ranging, and they are not even possible to be outlined in the context of a post- Agenda address. In any case, a reduction in the willingness to have children is the pursuit of lifelong full childlessness, and also the tendency to postpone pregnancy to a later date for young women who intend to have children, often at risk of not having a child at the time of their hoped-for birth. It is a sad fact that due to the social standards, economics and social policy conditions of today's Hungary, every new child's childhood is an additional burden that does not pay off for parents in terms of material goods, social recognition and safety of life even in the long term. However, if a parent generation is forced to give up more than two children in the interests of their own safety or comfort, then unfortunately, it will also give up a significant proportion of the future of its nation. The consequences of this lead to the apocalyptic outcome predicted only by the extreme liberals as a Hungarian poet. Thank you. I'll continue from here.
u2014-10-27-306	Honourable Congressman, The representative of the government has indicated that he does not want to answer that either. He has applied for a post-meeting speech, also from the Jobbik Group, Mr Zoltán Magyar:, Thoughts on the series fire in Mosonmagyaróvár on 26 October 1956. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Already in previous years, I have done several times to remember and report in detail the Mosonmagyaróvár series fire with facts, and other Members have done so before behind the walls of the House. I would like to undertake to share with you my thoughts at the memorials of Mosonmagyaróvár on Sunday, as the 26th of this Sunday. There is no more evidence of the impact of this tragedy on our day than the fact that to date we do not know exactly how many victims there have been. This unprocessedness has evolved to the point that the victims and their descendants still living today, even today, have been mentioned as the main bitterness that no one has ever apologized to them. And the thing is, since the exact number of victims is not known, historians now agree more or less that we have to talk about over a hundred victims. That is why it was not possible to hold those who were responsible and to carry out judicial proceedings, since to this day it is not possible to know exactly who and in what way the instructions were given, who and in what way have carried out this shameful act. By the way, all three stories, so that we do not know exactly the number of victims, and that there has been no accountability, and that the apology has not been followed, are typical sad Hungarian tragedy, Hungarian history, not only in connection with the series fire in Mosonmagyaróvár, but I believe that this is the case with quite a lot of tragedies. There are very few who, by the way, have dared to raise this issue since the change of regime and dared to initiate even the minimum research that was carried out in this case. There are also some thoughts about Sunday's memorial. Dr. István Nagy, former mayor of the city, is currently undersecretary of state. By the way, I liked it, Mr. Secretary of State, giving a good, really good speech. At the same time, I missed a great deal of the fact that while he was wondering how responsibility could have been left behind and how the tragedy that ended with the death of more than a hundred innocent and peaceful demonstrators did not have any consequences, he forgot to add that his government was already beginning its third term, so there would have been plenty of opportunity to support such research by this government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, and there would have been plenty of ways to start those legislative changes or procedures that could have led us to know more about the story and to make the names of those responsible at all possible. I also saw as a tragedy that the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Democratic Coalition were wreathing at the event. I do not dispute that everyone has the right to remember, because if we talk about, say, 20 August or 15 March, then I may even accept that left-wing parties have the right to wreath there, but in this special situation, which the 26 October volley means in Mosonmagyaróvár, it was quite tragic to experience, because it was some sort of feeling that the executioner had come to wreath his own victims. By the way, as the representatives of the two parties behaved before the wreathing, they judged themselves anyway, as chewing gum, they waited for their turn laughing with their hands in their pockets under the Anthem, and as soon as it was over, they went home. This, I think, was devastating for the person who was there, but for everyone, it was an opinion of themselves. But what would be the solution? Because it's not enough to tell you what my heart pains are about this tragedy. [[20.40]] Jobbik has not for the first time suggested that a fair research should be launched on the subject; yet it is essential that this city does not know exactly how many victims it has had in connection with this tragedy; and that it should be a worthy memorial place for the victims of volley fire in Mosonmagyaróvár, because today, some of those kopja trees, I think, are not enough. A more worthy memorial place, a small museum, would certainly be needed; for this, I submit my amendments to the budget every year. The responsibility for those responsible is no longer fulfilled, since the real ones are no longer alive. I am sorry that Hungarian democracy has failed to do this. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-27-308	Thank you very much. Congressman, the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Speaking after the agenda now, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament:, Why does the Government not present to Parliament a national strategy for the conservation of biodiversity? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-27-309	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Four years ago, the global biodiversity year drew the attention of politicians, decision-makers and societies to the alarming loss of biodiversity at both genes and species and ecosystems levels, including the loss, degradation and fragmentation of habitats, the excessive use of natural resources, the rapid spread and damaging effects of alien alien species. This has serious ecological, social and economic consequences, and our Earth's wildlife will be less and less able to adapt to rapidly changing, deteriorating environmental conditions. In the light of these worrying facts, at the Conference of Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in Nagoya, the countries of the world unanimously agreed to take effective and urgent measures to halt the reduction of biodiversity. One year later, the European Commission presented a ten-year strategy to protect and improve Europe's biodiversity in order to change the deteriorating processes in Europe. In line with international and EU efforts, Hungary should also develop its national strategy for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. Hungary's first biodiversity strategy expires this year, and for this reason the strategy needs to be revised and renewed. Unfortunately, biodiversity is also at great risk in our country. The most significant loss is caused by the destruction of natural vegetation, 90 percent of ecosystem services have already been expended. Major habitat losses are mainly caused by agriculture, and motorway constructions not only contribute to the development of an adverse situation as landowners, but also as isolated artificial corridors. People are building more and more areas, and it adds that Hungary is heavily affected by global warming, and we are experiencing extreme weather conditions every day. In a specific way, racial diversity in our country is still considered to be rich. Without biodiversity, we wouldn't have healthy soil, we wouldn't have agriculture, we wouldn't be able to breathe clean air. Without trees, we would not be able to prevent the devastating effects of precipitation water on soil, nor would we be able to consume their products. The extinction of species is also a threat to our health, since many of the information that is useful to medicine can be lost. The 2015 budget will be submitted to Parliament by 31 October, so it would have been timely to discuss and accept the national biodiversity strategy for the next seven years, so that there will be resources for the underlying tasks of economic development and the preservation of lifelong biodiversity. We are curious and anxious to see how the government intends to ensure that the loss of biodiversity and the further decline of ecosystem services will stop in Hungary by 2020, their state will improve and when the strategy will be presented. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-27-310	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of the Government has indicated that he wishes to respond in writing to what has been said. Member István Ikotity also applied for a post- Agenda speech from the LMP with the title 'Efficient Energy Efficiency'. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-27-311	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of this House to building technology. Imagine a building material whose thermal insulation capability is in competition with the most modern insulation materials, cheap, locally available, so it has minimal transport costs, and its carbon balance is negative, so its production does not release any more carbon dioxide, even more. We are a great power in production in Hungary. This technology has been known since 1880, has lived among us for decades, and yet we cannot call this technology widespread. In addition, this technology can be used in many ways, as it can be used to build new houses, where passive insulation windows can be used to achieve passive certification, but it can also reinsulate old buildings, and all this technology does not require serious engineering skills; it can only be learned by a simple course to use it. It's about the straw houses. The straw bales have been known since 1880, when the first baling machines were made. These straw-bala houses are clay-stained but built of straw bales and most often with simple wooden structures. These ensure stability, but they exist in other countries with a self-bearing structure, i.e. without a wooden support. The construction of such a straw house does not burden the environment, the cost of winter heating is minimal, and in summer there is no cooling costs due to good insulation. Due to its natural ventilation, heat inability, it provides a pleasant comfort in winter and summer. Salma can be built from independent houses and two- and three-storey buildings, so even community buildings. Around 30-40,000 such buildings have been built in the world, but larger institutions, even churches, have been built from straw bales in the world. There's no special danger. I've just heard from the congressmen that the house is blowing away by wind or some wild animal. It's not like that, it's a very massive structure, it's a technology that makes it as hard to break through this wall as a brick wall. [[20.50]] There is no danger that a lot of people would be afraid that it would light up easily. No, he's doing very well. Measurements have already been made in Hungary, with a temperature of 1000 degrees, which has been directed at it and lasted for more than three-quarters of an hour. It's been measured in Canada for several hours. It was shut down in Hungary. So we're talking about a technology like that? What do I say? cheap, available locally. Why isn't it working? Obviously, because there are no lobbying interests behind it, there is no huge economic profit behind such straw technology, and as a result, it is obvious that legislation is also unfortunately very difficult. But I'll mention just a few examples. The 1997 Law on Construction 41. For construction purposes, material may only be placed on the market or installed by means of a certificate of conformity provided for in a separate act. A 2003 regulation, a regulation, provides that construction products are to be designed for construction only if they have an approved technical specification. So this legislation has for a long time hindered the construction of straw houses in Hungary, since the main component, straw, obviously does not have a certificate of conformity or technical specifications due to the size of straw bales, as each straw bales is not exactly the same, depending on many things. So it doesn't count as building material. The only solution is that straw house building technology has been authorised as such, so that straw houses can be built in Hungary as well. This is rather difficult and does not take advantage of the opportunities that lie in this, and I think that I will also present this and try to make it as popular as possible, and that is also our responsibility to make it more known and to make their construction easier by changing the legislative environment. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-10-27-312	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Thank you for keeping the record. Thank you for your help. We will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good night, everyone. [[Meeting ended at 20:52 p.m.]]
