u2014-11-20-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you, and welcome all those who follow our daily work through the television screens. I would like to inform you that László Földi and MEP Dezső Believing will be here to help me. We'll continue our work adjourned yesterday. The draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2015 and the general debate on the submission of the opinion of the State Court of Auditors follow. The bill is T/1794. Opinion of the State Audit Office T/1794/11. was available to all of them and is now listed on the website. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain the distribution of the time frame of the factions available today. Here you go, notary.
u2014-11-20-1	Dear Parliament, Today's 12 hours timeframe is divided into 248 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 112 minutes for the KDNP Group, 138 minutes for the MSZP Group, 123 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 74 minutes for the LMP Group and 25 minutes for the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the unused time frame for negotiations available on each sitting cannot be carried over to the next day. I would like to remind you that on Monday, the chair of the meeting informed the Parliament that at the House Committee meeting the factions took note that, in order to ensure a proportionate use of the time frame, the chair of the meeting could deviate from the usual order of speech. It was also accepted that technical time, speeches by MEPs and speeches by ethnic advocates could lead to changes in the use of television broadcasting time. I would like to inform you that Members of the European Parliament with a political background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak against the time frame of the factions. Members of the European Parliament without a parliamentary background and directly registered representatives may use a proportionate proportion of the time frame of the independent representative.
u2014-11-20-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the agreed agenda, amendments can be tabled by 16:00 today. TV broadcasts are expected to last from 9 a.m. to 17 a.m. today. The speeches will now be held by its representatives and representatives of the European Parliament, the advocates of nationality. First, I give the floor to the Members who have been registered in writing, the first of them from the Fidesz Group to Mr Erik Bánki, Vice-President of the Commission. Here you go.
u2014-11-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about two important areas of the 2015 budget: areas of sport and tourism. I am pleased to see that the Hungarian government remains committed to supporting sport, continuing the process since 2010, which has led us to the point that the amount of sports subsidies during the last socialist governments amounts to just over HUF 100 billion compared to HUF 16 billion in the 2010 budget. Despite the fact that the Hungarian government has taken over the country's budget and the country's economy in a very difficult situation over the past years, as we were on the verge of collapse in 2010, the Socialist Government put the domestic budget in a virtually vulnerable position by taking on a loan from the IMF. Nevertheless, while the Hungarian government has wrinkled the Hungarian economy, while it has managed to balance the Hungarian budget and has been able to put the economy on a growing path, it has not given up on supporting that area, the area of sport, which is extremely important for society, with an annual increase in its potential. Why is sport important? Sport is extremely important, as it can be a key element in our children's lives. Unfortunately, Hungary has also reached a very poor place in terms of regular physical activity in the European Union as it was modest in the last-to-last position of the Member States of the European Union in 2010, with only 9 percent of the Hungarian population moving regularly, at least 45 minutes twice a week. The Hungarian government has set itself the goal of changing this indicator and wants more than 40 percent of the Hungarian population to move and exercise regularly by 2020. One of the most important foundations of this is the introduction of daily physical education in primary and secondary schools, thanks to which 600,000 children now play sports regularly, for a minimum of 45 minutes each day. In addition, replacement training programmes have been launched not only in team sports but also in other individual sports, which have led to more than twice the number of certified competitors in recent years. I am pleased to see that next year's budget figures continue to be encouraging, as they provide an opportunity for the establishment development programme that has started in recent years to continue, to create decent conditions for our children, so that parents can give their children a good feeling and joy to play sports in the world where they face many other challenges, the world of information technology, the key role of language learning, so in principle there would be less and less time left for children to play sports. However, if the Hungarian government can create such conditions, we can rightly trust that this positive trend will continue in the coming years. Very important coaching careers have been launched, which need to be continued, as we have reached the Beijing Olympics that Hungarian coaches have won more medals for competitors from foreign countries than Hungarian competitors have been able to obtain. [[9.10]] I think we can't keep this up any longer. It is extremely important that with this career program we can call home successful coaches, and our children, our young ones, will be able to train later. I also consider it extremely important that Hungary was the first to introduce a system of corporate tax relief in the European Union in 2011. As a result of this tax relief system, the five flagship team sports have been able to develop a very serious facility in recent years, as well as the competition of children has also increased to European standards. They are also reflected in numbers, not only in the dynamic increase in the number of athletes, but also in the results achieved. I think that if this process can survive, we will eventually get to the point that the replacements can also be converted to the success of adult sports. I see that next year's budget in the field of sport will ensure that this development can be maintained and that this strategic sector can be further strengthened. Let's look at the other important area of tourism. The government continues to regard tourism as a priority sector and is also seriously counting on its job-creating power. Let us not forget that by 2020, the government aims at full employment, which means that it will create one million new jobs in the country compared to 2010. Of this, 430,000 jobs have already been created, most of which are due to tourism, by the way. We expect, later on, that it will continue mainly in rural areas, in areas where other job opportunities were not available, as infrastructure, an environment that is not suitable for industrial deployment; well, in these areas, tourism offers a particularly good opportunity to create sustainable jobs in the service sector, and to create the opportunity to sell products and crops that are produced in rural areas to both domestic and foreign audiences. There is an invisible export potential in this area that the country should be able to exploit in the coming years. The figures are extremely impressive, as the number of guests travelling to Hungary has increased sharply in recent years, domestic tourism has increased, and the revenue of the sector has also increased. By 2012, we have achieved a record level of revenue for the last year before the economic and financial crisis in 2007, i.e. before the crisis, and since then we have been able to increase it even further in the last two years. I think that anyone who sees the country will also face the results that the last five years have been able to produce. In the next development cycle, i.e. by 2020 in tourism, improvements that have already started can achieve further qualitative improvements and thus develop a sustainable development that can not only create jobs but also sustain them, help those areas that have no other chance of catching up. Obviously, the two major destinations in Balaton and Budapest remain the driving sector of Hungarian tourism. Accordingly, I am very pleased that the government is planning a separate Balaton development programme for the next period, as there is still a lack of quality improvements in the area of our wonderful lake that allow us to attract guests with higher spending willingness and longer stay time. I believe that, in both areas, we are in a good position in 2015 and, despite the fact that the government significantly reduces the budget deficit, in which, I must say, we will once again be the leading students of Europe in 2015, these two important areas will not be affected, we can maintain the same level of support that these sectors received in 2014. I think that if my fellow Members support the 2015 budget submitted by the government, are both areas? tourism and sport? will profit in 2015. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members because I have this need for clarification that the timeframes on the monitor are the timeframes for television broadcasting and what the notary has described are the timeframes of the 12-hour whole-day block. I will address Mr Lajos Korózs from the MSZP Group after this information has been put forward. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-5	Thank you very much. Good morning. Dear House, A few weeks ago, at a press conference, I said that I was angry with Viktor Orbán. I am angry with Viktor Orbán because he forgot where he was born and forgot where he came from. I think it's time I repeat. The kind of arrogance the government represents next year's budget is reflected in this budget, which, in my opinion, is cynical and lying, exactly like the government. There's nothing surprising about it. This budget is only good for the rich and the fidesz oligarchs, this budget makes the middle class poor, drives the poor into poverty, and forces the poor to die of hunger. This budget is not a budget for the development of the economy, not the creation of jobs and not the strengthening of families, as Mihály Varga said, but a budget for the long-term decompression, poverty, growth of social inequalities, in my opinion. If all that Minister Varga said was important to the government, then I think that Viktor Orbán would be sitting here, and that is where Lajos Kósa would be sitting, and of course Minister Mihály Varga would be sitting, but I do not see that these things are important to them. It seems to me that Mr Varga is having coffee, I suppose, with Ildiko Vida, Mr Orbán, he will also be opening a pig colony today, although I note here in parentheses that the Mangalicas should not be kept in the same conditions as he had the day before yesterday, and it is now the subject of a rumour that Lajos Kósa is having a fight with his wife in the Middle East. Dear House, Turning to the budget, Minister Varga said yesterday that this budget will address inherited social problems. These social problems, or a significant part of them, have been caused in the last five years. They are doing this again with this tax law and next year's budget. Unfortunately, the transparency and understanding of the budget was not really promoted by this nearly thousand-page volume, as the chapter volume of each wallet often contains no meaningful information about appropriations. In many places, they refer to legislative amendments that we do not know anything about yet. The SAO also explained that the classification of the implementation of the budget plans cannot be established without this, and the justification cannot be interpreted. I stress, I'm not saying it, I'm not saying it, the State Audit Office said it. Dear House, First of all, I would like to highlight the issue of social assistance. Does the chapter on local government budgets justify the gradual transition to the labour market of beneficiaries of employment replacement aid? Writes the chapter? First, it is expected that it will be decisively in public employment and gradually in the primary labour market. Look, this is highly doubtful, primarily sociological research makes it clear that 10 percent of people involved in public employment cannot go to the open labour market, and another sociological research makes it clear that since 2011 this proportion has been steadily decreasing. To expect that people, since this whole public work programme has already become systemic and then find their calculations in the open labour market, I think they are highly doubtful. What will this government measure entail? First and foremost, the total maiming of those in difficulty. Allow me to support my opinion with a few figures. Today, more than 200,000 people in our country have no choice but to do community service; I am, of course, talking about people of active age. Their wages are roughly 50-60 thousand forints, provided they receive community service. I stress that there are over 200,000 people involved. There are also 170,000 people who receive so - called family benefits. The sum of this is roughly 45 thousand forints. The 380,000 jobseekers have 170,000 people. There's another 210,000 people who don't get any benefits. Of these 130,000 so-called passive jobseekers, I think it doesn't matter on what ground a person doesn't receive any support, so it doesn't matter whether he's a passive jobseeker or an active jobseeker, the point is that he doesn't get a naughty penny. There are more than 200,000 people who have been excluded from all registrations, and I stress that they have excluded these people from all registrations. These people are both physically and mentally in very bad shape. [[9.20]] Now, if we're gonna add all this up, my dear friends, I'm gonna have to tell you that we're talking about over a million people. It's over a million people! And one more statistic: if you count it with family members, it will reach two and a half million people. Now, these two and a half million people are the ones who are permanently breaking down in this society. Dear Friends! I'll finish citing statistical data: 700-800 thousand poor children. Seven hundred and eight hundred thousand poor children! A child who should, you know, be fed at least three times a day; a child who can't protect himself is a child who, when it's night, goes to bed with a growling stomach. I'm talking about a child who, if he's sick, his mother's heart will break because he can't replace his medication. The Prime Minister says he'll stop aiding and everyone in the labour market will find his calculation. Well, they're not gonna find a way there, 'cause the capital's moving out of the country. I recommend you to note that two weeks ago, exactly the Institute of Economic Research published a survey that clarified that over EUR 1 billion of capital had been spent from the country in the last year, and that in this first half, EUR 1.2 billion of working capital had already been released from the country again. So, not only will there not be more jobs in the country, but the following year, in the open labour market, it is clear that there will be fewer jobs. The law states that other aid which may be applied for by municipalities will also be abolished or merged. This is a serious step, not an administrative change. Because the aid had to be applied to the municipalities? For example, housing support? But basically, the law told me who could have them. It is true that more and more arbitrary opportunities have been given to local authorities in terms of regulation recently. The budget you've already submitted? Do we know that? There is an increase in the scope of benefits that the municipalities can decide on in their respective jurisdictions. Plus, there'll be fewer resources for all of this. They understand the logic: more people in trouble, more arbitrary action than municipalities, and fewer resources. What's the end of this? It's obvious that it's repulsion. Because in this section, the government will reduce the amount of funds that can be spent on financial social assistance by HUF 53 billion. This will mean that hundreds of thousands of families will fall from various social benefits, without which they will go into even deeper poverty. In a previous file, I also have to quote the State Audit Office, it concluded that because of the lack of knowledge of the details, the reorganisation of the municipal aid system is a risk factor. I stress that I do not claim it: the State Audit Office says so. In addition, the government has recently decided to allow this year the over-achievement of the care allowance and the benefits of the elderly, established by the district offices, by HUF 5.9 billion. These benefits and resources will be added to the municipal budget next year. The only problem is that there is no trace of this additional demand for the next HUF 6 billion, only this year's framework, which is HUF 22.4 billion. Thus, the number of beneficiaries will not decrease, the recipients will stand in the same position with the municipalities, only the resources will be significantly smaller. So, even here, on this column, they're gonna save money. In the meantime, of course, the 20 billion forints recently taken from the social and child protection area in favour of KLIK will not be replaced next year, and the year is planned to start from a smaller base. Thus, this HUF 20 billion is not only missing now, but there will be so much less funding for municipalities in the next year as well. This amount is not replaced by tasks taken over from the districts and their coverage, as it is not a found money, but a transfer with specific tasks in principle. Then we will see what and how to change in the rules on aid, because I would like to stress that we are not the only ones who do not know, but also, in practice, the local authorities, which legislation will make aid work for them. Dear House, Dear Friends! I'm sure you'll see I've been wearing this blue ribbon for days. [[He's pointing to a tape on his jacket.]] This is a symbol of solidarity with social workers. The wage increase for social workers is not covered in next year's budget, but is covered only by this year's sectoral bonus in the draft. But for the wage increase requested by the trade unions, roughly? The way I'm calculating? We need 15-17 billion forints. According to Secretary of State Károly Czibere, there are resources in the sector and he expects various help from the government or government. As one of the potential sources of saving, he was an example of home assistance. It would be nice to know what the Secretary of State is basing it on to save on home assistance. Perhaps the registration system introduced a few years ago shows that there is no need for so many caregivers or caregivers. I can't tell you that right now, but it would be nice to know, I think, about next year's planning. As a positive change in basic social services, the reason is that the number of hours expected for funding is reduced: from 240 days per year in nursery to 235 days per year and from 251 days in family day care to 240 days in kindergarten. This, of course, demonstrates mathematically more favourable care, but, my dear friends, it is not due to the granting of additional resources that the nursery must be kept open a week less and the family day care centers two weeks less. That's a very nice definition. It says in the explanatory statement: expected opening day. Dear Friends! They say that to shut us down because for this week or these weeks, we are not going to provide funding for the operation. Dear House, I would like to talk about social services in a few sentences. Overall, I see that there will be no more resources for the development of services next year, and even less for the development of social and child welfare services and the promotion of professional tasks next year. Hold on to this: 37 percent of budget support will be withdrawn. This means that it is practical to reduce the amount of money that can be spent by one third. Will there be less next year for another line called social sector development, services and programmes? Hang on, fellow Members? The appropriations will be reduced by 65%. Not two thirds of them are being held, two thirds of them are being withdrawn from this year's aid! Is the budget line with the title of family policy proposals the most striking? We've had 92 million forints this year, of course? This item will grow by more than HUF 1 billion next year. Hang on, it's raised more than ten times. When you look carefully at what the hell you want to spend this vast amount of money on, over a billion forints, you have the skin to write to the communication of the population policy action plan. They don't spend money on how more children can be born, they use it to sell it. Ladies and gentlemen. I will continue my comments on disability, pension and health tomorrow. Thank you so much for listening. I see there are quite a lot of scoundrels in this budget. OLAF will continue to examine it in the following year. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr Firtl Mátyás. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-7	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am just listening to Mr Korózs from what he said to Olga Kálmán that he has prepared a very lousy contribution to today's Parliament's speech. He made that statement on TV. [[Lajos Korózs: Classics are only worth quoting precisely.]] You were able to start by focusing on where Lajos Kósa is? Not with your wife, as you said. Orbán was concerned about where he was. He's currently at MÁÉRT, and yesterday he met the diaspora. [[Lajos Korózs: The Prime Minister should be here!]] Honourable Congressman, The Prime Minister deals with the provision of Hungarians, the Hungarian nation, which you have never dared to deal with, and even in a shameful referendum. But in my comment today, which I would like to address, it's a chapter on defence spending. I will also deal with the issues that Lajos Korózs dealt with in the course of tomorrow, with family policy, the issue of population loss and population, the feeding of kindergartens, which is all a result, my honourable fellow Member, that you, when you were on the government, have not been able to keep to a level, since you have afflicted the population. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of MSZP.]] You have been able to present plans to bring this country to the brink of bankruptcy, taking away pensions. So tomorrow, next time, we will also see the matter of pensions, my honourable fellow Member. [[9.30]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to a scheduled increase in defence expenditure, taking into account the capacity of the national economy. Why is that important? Because we have also been attacked by many attacks in the sense that we are not increasing our NATO spending. The Hungarian government has never said that it does not want this, but has always taken into account what the Hungarian national economy is capable of. In 2012, the Government undertook to keep the defence budget at a minimum level for 2012 in the years 2013-15 and to increase the total amount of aid by 1 percentage point per year from 2016 onwards to 1.4 percent of GDP by 2022. At the NATO summit in Wales in September, given the developments in the Ukrainian crisis, Member States agreed to reverse the process of reducing defence spending. Because here I would like to point out that Hungary was not the only one with a tendency to reduce defence expenditure, but practically all NATO Member States, except the US. According to the agreement, NATO members will approximate their military expenditure within a decade to the equivalent of 2% of their national total. In particular, 20 percent of the defence budget should be allocated to the development of forces. The budget proposal presented would increase the framework for next year's defence spending by around HUF 9 billion, or more than HUF 200 billion, compared to this year. In particular, the Ministry of Defence will contribute HUF 4 billion to NATO budget next year. For the expenditure on the applications of standby sub-units to be developed under NATO and the EU's recommendation, HUF 100 million is included in the defence budget and HUF 350 million is included in the EU's common-funded defence funds. Here I would like to thank the army and the soldiers for their participation in these international organisations, together with them. As our performance is able, we can participate in the cooperation, but, as the example proves, the Hungarian Defence Office seeks to participate everywhere, which is guaranteed by its potential, and is a very excellent performance in these cooperations. As in 2014, the bill grants the Minister of Defence the right to transfer to NATO in order to carry out the tasks arising from international engagement and to pursue the objectives of development of forces to NATO. The appropriations approved for expenditure on deployment of contingency sub-units under NATO and EU recommendations may be exceeded with the government's approval. This will also help us to achieve our international engagement. The budget proposal states that measures to estimate public service workers will continue in 2015. As a result, a career model for armed and law enforcement workers will be launched. It should be noted here that when the country's ability to hold a load was the same way as we promised the teachers the introduction of a career model, and we continue to carry on this fiscal year, so this year the career model of law enforcement workers will also be launched, and, of course, in its process, it will also correct the issue of a career model and the wages of law enforcement workers. It is still possible for the Minister to use the revenue from the sale of surplus military equipment, military equipment and materials for defence purposes in 2015 for the technical modernisation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the maintenance and improvement of technical equipment, the development of capabilities and military equipment, and the financing of expenditure incurred during the sales procedures. Within the framework of the security measures set out at the NATO summit in Wales, Hungary has undertaken to develop the papal base with a significant investment so that it can receive a larger team. Thus, a further increase in the total amount of expenditure is expected as the amount of resources needed for the development work of the papal airport has not been taken into account in the framework number. However, I think it is important to mention that the Hungarian Defence Forces have been protecting Slovenia's airspace since October 2014 and will also contribute to the protection of the Baltic air space next year. This is an eloquent proof of the fact that the Hungarian Defence Office has done its best in recent years, despite its limited framework, to ensure and ensure respect for the defence not only in Hungary but also internationally. Ladies and gentlemen, In the budget ahead, I would like to propose to my fellow Members the adoption of the amounts described in the defence chapter by saying that, indeed, in the coming year, in line with NATO expectations, a further increase in the military budget will be required. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that in the debate on any item on the agenda which the Government is referring to, the representative of the Government may speak without a time limit, in accordance with the regulations of the House. Accordingly, I am speaking to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank Mr Firtl Mátyás for being so accurately, precisely and deeply involved in the defence budget, analysed, presented to us, and presented the points that the government really considers important this year and considers it important to present in the 2015 budget. Indeed, according to the Hungarian Government's decree, the Hungarian Government has committed itself to increasing the defence budget by 0.1 percent from 2016, but the defence budget is increasing by about HUF 9 billion already in 2015, which represents an increase of some 3.7 percent in next year. Indeed, there are items in the budget before us, which are not included in the main amount of defence, but outside of it. Congressman also mentioned the development of the papal base airport. This is a very important, very important and forward-looking commitment we made at the Welsh summit. Thank you very much, Member, for noticing that you have interpreted the appreciation of the Hungarian people for the Hungarian soldiers. I would also like to thank all Hungarian soldiers from this place, all Hungarian soldiers, in recent years and in recent years, both in Hungary and in foreign missions. Thank you for maintaining and enhancing the honour of Hungarian soldiers at home and around the world. And indeed, the budget is not in the main amount of defence, but it contains the concept of a career and the amount of money intended to cover the career, with which we can express our appreciation for our countrymen not only in word but also in deed and in money and in salary from July next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker was Mrs Dóra Dúró from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-20-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In our view, education will be one of the losers of next year's budget. There's nothing better to prove than that on Saturday, teachers go out on the street. It is feared that if the figures included in the budget are accepted, many teachers will not only go out on the street but also go out on the street. One of the most important and perhaps even the most important participants of the institutions was the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, which had to be given emergency aid several times this year by the government, the HUF 484 billion foreseen last year had to be supplemented several times by several tens of billions forints, only to enable the academic year to run safely. The same can be expected in the following year, and we see that the amount foreseen for the operation of the CLIK and thus for the maintenance of schools is less than the amount actually used by this institution this year. So what we see is that last year's planning was a disaster, we had to intervene several times, we had to spend a very serious amount of money in addition to the operation of the CLIK, and now this amount is not planned for the next year's budget to work for the same institution. [[9.40]] We are well aware that despite these emergency aids, schools have had daily problems, a lot of people have read about it in the press, and the feedback received from teachers confirms that there have been daily problems in education that may not have been the case in the last 25 years, so let's just think about the abuse of textbooks or their failure to arrive at school. It is also very well demonstrated by the huge problems they face in the KLIK, the fact that the leadership of the KLIK and the Secretary of State Czunyiné were unable to set a date for the Committee's meeting all autumn, when we wanted to review the situation of the Institutional Maintenance Centre and the consequences of the state's reservation. Unfortunately, they are hiding, not a single date during the autumn session is good for the leadership of the KLIK, or for the secretary of state, to honor the parliamentary committee, which is also responsible for education, called the cultural committee, by presenting the situation to us. It is also important to talk about the situation in secondary schools and the changes planned next year, namely the decoupling of vocational education and training, and the inclusion of it under the authority of the Ministry of National Economy. Now, there will be only about six months before the entire vocational training is planned to be taken out of the hands of the KLIK and transferred to the Ministry of National Economy, but there will be a number of questions about concrete implementation that are not yet answered; there is no answer to how this separation will take place in multi-purpose institutions, what will happen to teachers who will transfer from one type of institution to another, and I can tell you more about the problems that are feared that half a year of what is available will be limited. As regards vocational training, it is also correct for the Prime Minister to state that there are serious problems in this area and that it is important to strengthen this branch of secondary schools. At the same time, attention should be drawn to the fact that the idea of reducing the proportion of students in high school by 40% is not supported by any data that would render this justification unquestionable. At present, in the 2013-2014 academic year, 37 percent of the age group started their studies in high schools, which means that the others started at vocational school or vocational school. By the way, 22 percent are the ones who started it in vocational school. That if we compare the 37 percent high school rate with the government's idea of higher education, namely the 35 percent degree rate foreseen by the Secretary of State Palkovics, this is almost entirely compatible with each other. Obviously, it is not possible to say that students go to higher education only from high school, but this also shows that one government action plan is crossing the other. And I would like to come to the financing of higher education, which is also a crucial point in the budget. When the Orbán government took over in 2010, the expenditure on higher education amounted to approximately HUF 180 billion, currently to HUF 143 billion in the next year's budget. So what we can see is that in four years, 40 billion HUF is roughly what was extracted from higher education. Subsequently, a document containing the higher education guidelines was published stating that state aid for higher education could not be significantly increased. So the government's long-term plans, covering several decades, show that they do not intend to increase this amount at all, even though we have also read that they want to transform the foundations of higher education funding. I would like to replace student head quota funding with a task funding from 2016 onwards, so they are also unable to refer to demographic reasons for this withdrawal from higher education. Since I mentioned the entire education sector as a loser, perhaps it is the foundation schools whose fate is in the most uncertain and has caused the greatest outrage. In Hungary about 300,000 children go to foundation schools, and in contrast to popular belief, most of them are children who come from poorer families. Perhaps because of the different family contributions, there is a misconception in society that it is the children of richer parents who can afford to go to foundation school, but unfortunately that is not the case. Foundation schools are those with infrastructure and personal conditions in which they can raise and educate children requiring special treatment; and many families who do not find suitable seats in public schools choose foundation schools. In particular, it is necessary to highlight the basic art education institutions, which are also largely based on foundations, and it is feared that this planned withdrawal, which would affect the foundation schools, will also undermine their position. We are well aware that there is a ministerial statement on the basis of which the government has abandoned the planned 25 percent withdrawal, but I do not think we can be happy that one funding will be the same as last year. This is desperate that it even arises from one government to make the sphere of foundation schools virtually impossible in this way, and it cannot be a success that they receive the same amount as last year. There have also been a number of policy and education policy changes in recent years that have a serious budgetary impact, such as the introduction of daily physical education. We see that everyone may even experience it in their own constituency or also in conversation with teachers that in many places there are no conditions for the effective performance of everyday physical education in schools. There are schools where you have to travel to an outside venue to an association, and it is true that they can only hold 20 minutes. But it also happens that the children begin to exercise on the stairs, and thus the texture of the buildings is rapidly deteriorating. In one of the schools where I visited, the head of the institution complained that since they started using the corridors in the framework of daily physical education, the institution began to get wet and had to put stands on one of the walls. So there are consequences. But there is a school in Zala County where five classes have to teach physical education at the same time, because there is simply no other way to solve these situations. The amount for gym building will be HUF 3 billion the following year, also very little, of which we will not be able to provide substantial assistance to schools in this program. It's the last thing I'd like to talk about to increase kindergarten space. The amount spent on this is also very small, and unfortunately this year too, the amount was not available, but not even a fraction of what was needed. In one of the kindergartens in Szeged, for example, they applied for a seat extension and were able to win 40 seats in the whole city, and this was the amount of money available for it, even though there are thousands of seats that are missing in this city. So it is only a fraction of what can be achieved in this respect, and again, the local authorities will have to resolve this situation, unfortunately. All in all, I can therefore say that for the policy objectives, some of which are otherwise correct and to be supported, the resources allocated to them are few, teachers may be at risk, and in the next year's budget education can be considered as a loser. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I believe this is not the first time I have told you in the walls of this House, but I may have told another fellow Member from Jobbik that sometimes, listening to your speeches, one feels the spirit of Bálint Magyar, summoning him here in Parliament. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Which is really weird for me. Jobbik didn't start from exactly the fold, but yet what you're saying here, in many cases, with certain types of school or certain educational issues, I'm surprised at the extent to which it resembles those sentences. But one always learns something from every speech; that the top of the schools is soaked because of everyday physical education, but this is new to us that there was such a causal relationship between them. Seriously, though. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look at the budget numbers, you can see that we spend more on children, education, education than we did last year. The biggest and most important is the salary increase for teachers, which continues this year, which is 38 billion HUF plus for teachers. [[9.50]] Not only will teachers receive the HUF 130-140 billion that they received from previous year's wage increases, but they will also receive this plus that we will give them from 1 September this year. And on the whole, KLIK manages more than HUF 50 billion. Do many like to say 100 billion forints? I think that's what they've been saying lately? The government is pulling me out of education. We don't know where this number comes from, and why they don't say 200 or 300, because they know that funding is rising in every segment of education. If I look at secondary education, what they say most often is that there is a 24% withdrawal, I don't know where they get the 24 percent while we spend 209 billion next year instead of 196 billion in 2014. They like to mix this with higher education, there is also growth, plus an increase of HUF 7 billion in higher education. But most importantly, in my opinion, it is definitely an increase in the wages of teachers, because if we expect good education, it is based on a sufficient payment of teachers. And as far as kindergartening is concerned, you're saying there's not enough gymnasiums, not enough kindergartens. The fact that there are few gyms, obviously everyone knows, sees and senses, so we introduce everyday physical education in an up-and-coming system, and that's why we started public support programs to build gymnasiums, gymnasiums and swimming pools across the country. We know that this will take place year after year, so the introduction is gradual and the construction is gradual. Which means kindergartens, you know there are as many kindergarten seats in the country as you need, but you're not in the place where you need them. That's why we're building new ones. And if you look at the fact that in the last four years we have built more than 5,000 new kindergarten seats, and your investment has started to be 7,000, this year we will give you four thousand new kindergarten seats, if you multiply this by the number of previous years, then you will see that we are building two or three times as many kindergartens as we used to. And I think it's a very important number pair. You can say that, of course, everyone would be happy to have more kindergarten seats more quickly, even because there are children who would go to those kindergartens, but if you look at the pace of this and you see that twice or three times the number of preschool seats delivered each year is as much as before, you can see that this government has accelerated the earlier pace. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will continue with the speeches. Mr László Kucsák is coming from the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-15	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. The government's aim is to improve the quality of the public education system for children and learners, so it wants to spend the increasing public extra money primarily on the wages of the best-performing teachers. If I may, I would like to refer here to what Mrs Dóra Dúró has just said. Undoubtedly, in a changing system, we are faced with new and new emerging issues to be resolved, and I can tell you from my personal experience that, taking into account the performance of those in education, it is only in the voice of recognition that all those who have been and are working as educators and educators. Obviously, their interests and proposals, even within the framework of a demonstration, are expressed, where appropriate, may be reflected in legislation and legislative amendments. So, going back to the 2015 budget proposal, it can be seen from the figures that public education expenditure will increase by 8 percent next year according to the budget bill. The public policy objective is to increase the responsibility and responsibility of the State in education, building on what is stated in the Fundamental Law. The National Public Education Act provides a new framework for the country's public education tasks and care system. Thus, it is necessary for institutions under the control of the portfolio, such as the Klebelsberg Centre for Institutional Support, the Institute for Education and Development, as well as for appropriations managed by the chapter, to be given greater emphasis on the tasks and the grants that come together with the new objectives and create the conditions for rethinking the system. On this basis, a number of tasks should be carried out in 2015 which, after carrying out analyses, concepts, implementation studies, allow implementation regulations, regulators to be drawn up, introduced and the work of school supporters and public education institutions in support of the new regulation. The greater responsibility of the State calls for further strengthening of the professional and budgetary control of public education institutions and their maintainers, recasting the conditions of curriculum and content regulation, thus supplementing the content of the National Basic Training Plan, modernising the system of graduation examinations and carrying out additional tasks related to the introduction of the pedagogical career. During the planning of the 2015 budget appropriations, the government will provide HUF 50 billion in additional resources for the running of schools and raising teachers' wages through the Klebelsberg Institution Support Centre next year. Quality education is the basis for the future of children and the country. That is why I would like to point out that more children than ever have access to textbooks free of charge. The National Public Education Act states that all students of the 1-8th grade are entitled to the free textbook supply by providing it for the first time for students enrolling for the first year of school in 2013-14, and then in an ascending system. This is also included in the proposal before us. The Elizabeth Programme is one of the most successful programmes of social solidarity in Europe. This is why camping in the public education sector has been given priority in the budget. Thanks to the applications issued by the Hungarian National Holiday Foundation, 14 thousand children were allowed to vacation in various camps in 2012, some 50 thousand last year and almost 55 thousand children, mostly disadvantaged. In addition to public expenditure, public education is also supported at the expense of EU funds. In the EU financial period 2014-2020, the government pays particular attention to the infrastructure development and investment of public education institutions, which are of particular importance for public education. Is social renewal currently an operational programme? TAMOP? an operational programme for social infrastructure? Tiop? and regional operational programmes? ROP? public education developments in the framework of the programme are in a final or final phase. Here I would like to mention that, thanks to these, there are many places, such as the capital of the 18th century. It was also able to expand kindergartens in its district and to build a nursery, which all helps and supports the implementation of these tasks. A framework for developments to be announced in the 2014-2020 development period is still under development. The priorities under the operational programme for the development of human resources include: further reducing the number of early school leavers and preventing school leaving without qualifications; ensuring equal access to quality education in early childhood, primary and secondary education, including formal, informal and non-formal learning forms that encourage return to education; encouraging access to lifelong learning opportunities; adapting education and training systems to labour market needs; improving the continuous adaptation of education and training systems to labour market needs; facilitating transition from learning to work; strengthening and improving the quality of training systems, including mechanisms based on the forecasting of skills needs; adapting learning materials, creating and developing work-based learning systems; investing in education, skills training and lifelong learning by developing education and training infrastructures; developing infrastructure for public education and non-formal training. Following the principle of a caring state, the government also places great emphasis on social inclusion. The state-owned institutions can manage almost HUF 2 billion higher next year. Thanks to the institutions' renovation, modernisation and energy efficiency programmes, the quality of care will be significantly improved in several institutions in 2015. In 2013, the establishment of a safe start with EU funds was introduced into the domestic budget system, and the service is regulated by the Child Protection Act. The central budget contributes to the operation of the early childhood service, which effectively increases the educational opportunities of the most disadvantaged children. [[10.00]] So far, it has not been the case that an EU development has been transformed into a domestic service with normative standards, and in addition, in order to provide stable support for the most difficult families. Until the first half of 2014, about ten thousand children and their parents visited the children's homes. Currently there are 115, sure beginnings, children's homes, 49 of which are provided by the domestic budget. Regional children's aid programmes will continue in 2015 to ensure that the catching-up process is strengthened and broadened. EU development resources are available in order to create an educational opportunity to strengthen the institutional compensation role of the public education system, develop and strengthen measures to catch up. The development will allow EU funding to strengthen the methodological support of the programmes from 2015 onwards for scholarships that had previously been funded in Hungary before the drop of 14,000 students. Local authorities are given a greater degree of freedom in the development of their local social policy, with nearly HUF 10 billion higher support from the state. The strengthening of the subsidiarity principle and the increase in the monitoring role of local communities can lead to more predictable and targeted social benefits. More than one and a half billion increase in support of local government-run residential institutions. With this increase, municipalities will be given the opportunity to improve both personal and material conditions, and the quantitative and qualitative indicators of professional work can be improved, in particular by operating crèches. One of the government's main objectives is that no child should be hungry for one day. The primary universal tool for this is to extend the free and discounted year-round children's meals. In 2015, the government will provide HUF 58 billion to eliminate child hunger, with over 5.5 billion more for this purpose than in 2014. The organisation of children's summer meals is a continuing problem, with an increase of nearly 15 percent allowing more local authorities, with a total increase of HUF 3 billion in the amount allocated to the programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to consider what has been said when you draw up your position on the 2015 budget proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-20-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the LMP Group is Mr Sallai R. Benedek. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to apologise to the pro-government representatives and their understanding, but I do not feel it is my duty to praise the budget. They have enough time and enough Members, so I will obviously not focus on them; please do not ask me in hindsight why I am only trying to point out mistakes. Last night, relatively few people respected Parliament's participation beyond the mediation period, so I would like to recall that I have already introduced in some of the amendments that I have tabled, and I have also asked for your help and support for this. I would just like to recall very briefly that I proposed to strengthen the FM budget to strengthen nature conservation and to carry out the tasks arising from international nature conservation agreements. I would very much like to see resources spent on the creation of a reference network of extra-institutional births in Hungary, as the legislation which your government has adopted is currently inoperative and cannot be applied until minimum resources are provided for the training of midwifes, the setting up of an appropriate obstetric network and the establishment of the house of birth, as well as reference facilities. Yesterday, I also took the liberty of mentioning Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi as "Btk." Btk in connection with rape, domestic violence and crimes at the expense of minors. modification, as indicated then, will not be enough. Now would be the opportunity to strengthen the institutional system in the budget that can improve both prevention and exploration. We have also proposed amendments to this so that the courts and the police have an appropriate institutional system to deal with these. Obviously, I brought a lot of rural development and rural issues in the course of yesterday, from which I focused mainly on the lowland counties with my proposals, especially because in most rural road networks it can be seen that the total neglect of three or four-digit roads makes it impossible for people living in the countryside to go to work. But many administrative centralisations also make it very, very difficult for them to reach the various public services. I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of the county of Békés to the Wenckheim programme; we have proposed that the government should provide substantial resources to save the castles and mansions belonging to the Wenckheim family in Békés County. These were the ones I drew attention to yesterday. Last night, I heard a lot about it, and then later on the evening, I wondered how the family tax benefits you announced, the benefits that first married people will benefit from, since I do not wish to criticize without any principles. But I realized that the trap is in here, that if we look at the statistics, the number of people in the competitive sector is falling and the public sector is growing, which basically puts money from one pocket to the next. So it does not have a meaningful impact, as there are fewer and fewer people with such a level of wage that they can benefit from these tax incentives. This was the most important experience of yesterday's day that all that are said to be positive in this respect do not create a meaningful opportunity. Allow me now to move on to today, and I would like to make two or three comments. I absolutely do not feel it my job to comment on education policy, but once again I was surprised by the comment on Mrs Dúró. Yesterday, we were acquitted, and now Jobbik is just here, and there is only one government that is very similar to SZDSZ in the use of public resources, this Fidesz, whose budget reflects that it can make public money disappear as much as those governments do. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't forget about Gábor Fodor.]] I was happy to listen to the grammatical game that my colleague called retourism, how to always avoid any responsibility, how to give a different answer when there are specific questions; I really appreciate this art, and for my part I take it with humor that it always solves this. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Thank you very much.]] On the other hand, in one thing, when you mentioned the renovation of the rural sports halls and gymnasiums, I would like to refer back to Mr Bánki's speech, who started this morning by saying how commendable the government's performance in the field of sports development is. It is indeed noteworthy that one of the largest percentage of our GDP in the European Union is devoted to such developments, but, unlike your experience, my clear information is that while billions go to stadiums, unfortunately, there is no substantial funding for the sports halls needed for rural gymnasiums, school sports facilities and the operation of urban sports clubs. It would be good if we could confirm these, and it would be possible for these sports development resources to reach the rural population as much as possible, and that children could benefit from it as much as possible. I didn't comment on the budget yesterday, just saying what else I needed money for, and I didn't bother to name the funds. I'm gonna make up for that. I was surprised to see this 28 billion-dollar budget line for a development that doesn't actually have anything concrete yet, we don't know how much they're doing or what they're doing, but it had to be built in. The increase in MVM's capital is also a relatively large sum of 50 billion, of which it would be quite possible to finance the development of what was said yesterday. The Olympic center has 44 billion planned. If we look at how this gets to the Hungarian people, the population, this again appears as a relatively questionable expense in terms of their justification. We move the Prime Minister's Office to the Castle from 5 billion, and there is HUF 61 billion in the PM's budget under various payments, which we also cannot place very much. There's no doubt that this could be translated into something else. The 4 billion for sports concepts is also a surprising cost; plus 50 billion for public work. [[10.10]] With this source, I'd like to move on to another part, because I can honestly say that I was pleased to hear the announcement of the Vice President of Fidesz, perhaps a few weeks ago, in which he announced the new slogan of bureaucracy reduction. Let me say that by reducing bureaucracy, it is very, very easy to sympathize with everyday people who often go through a lot of office mazes, but at the same time to see that the processes at present show something completely different. The number of public sector workers increased by 9 percent compared to 2010. All this has increased without increasing their incomes. We don't pay people in the public sector. There is now a 4.7 percent increase in budget lines for this, while wage increases are 3.7 percent based on budgetary figures. This means that we still do not want to pay a significant proportion of public sector workers, but at the same time we want to increase their numbers further. Is this the employment approach that we have with the public work programme? where will another 50 billion be transferred? is completely unsustainable. I would like to remind you of the data of KSH that compares 2013 to 2008 on the crisis outbreak and shows that while there was a 9 per cent increase in public employment and public sector, there was a 7 per cent decrease in the competition sector. For the sustainable jobs promised to the Hungarian electorate, which would provide an opportunity to generate an income for the population from which it could at all avail itself of the tax relief that you will promise to start a family, it would require completely different trends. We need to raise incomes in the competitive sector and try to increase the number of people employed there, so that the number of small and medium-sized enterprises that do specific production and value-making work can be strengthened. This is what you will come up with, but what a big percentage of the 11 000 billion coming into the country from EU funds will be for SMEs. Obviously, we see that when it comes not to sacrifice from their own pockets, from their own budgets, it is very, very easy, because it is a very, very consistent approach to their fiscal policies. If you have to give something to the public, do you always give it from someone else's pocket? They charge the banks, they account for the bills, so what they give you is from someone else's pocket? When they ask for something, they ask for it in their own pockets. Promising and accepting EU funds to strengthen this and strengthening it is a bit of a back-up situation because it is being made into a number of funding that has shown in the last EU budget cycle that there has been no real job creation. The country has developed infrastructure, for which there is insufficient resources to maintain, insufficient background, and at the moment in the system of further strengthening SMEs, if there will be infrastructure development again, as well as the National Employment Fund, where small and medium-sized enterprises can virtually receive support for the purchase of assets, and they will not be helped to pay wages so that they can pay relatively high employer and employer burdens, so that it is not expected to increase again. The amendments tabled in the budgetary perspective, which I have spoken about in part and which I have tried to present yesterday, would partly address the problem of how the budget can go in a way that allows the population to benefit from it as much as possible, and the broadest possible number of people to meet the country's budget resources, the wider the number of people who can enjoy it. To this end, the programmes strengthening the countryside are direct, which I have drawn attention to, and I will ask the pro-government representatives to consider at least substantially the proposals for amending the budget. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2014-11-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mrs Bene Ildikó, from Fidesz; he will be followed by Mr Gábor Fodor, from among the independent; and that will be the end of the first round, where two-minute speeches will be possible. Congresswoman Bene Ildikó has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-20-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, when discussing budgets, we can say that the government's economic policy objectives are consistent: maintaining deficit positions, increasing employment, reducing public debt, improving competitiveness, and one of the most important issues in the budget is how much money remains in the population, people and families. Unlike my colleague, Mr Korózs, I believe that further strengthening of the family tax system will continue in 2015 and that as a result, 240 billion calculated amounts will remain for families. An important new element is that the promotion of marriage will happen with a tax discount and the conditions for a new home creation programme will be created. The benefits of parents with two children will continue to double with a gradual introduction from 2016 onwards, and what is new is that in 2015 there will be a tax reduction even after part-time employment of parents with small children. The government will continue to develop health care, and let me talk about it in a little bit more detail. The priorities of the health care system have been developed in the Semmelweis plan. The most important elements of this, which will accompany the past period and will continue in the future: greater public responsibility, inter-institutional cooperation, continuous monitoring of structural changes, clarification of competences, reinforcement of basic care and improvement of outpatient care, reform of the pharmaceutical support system. Emergency care, the development of emergency services, oncological developments, the development of the sector's IT system and the harmonisation of existing systems, the management of the human resources crisis situation, the development of vocational training, close cooperation, the coordination of developments with the social sector, and I consider it extremely important to renew public health services, to ensure effective integration of the health care system with public health aspects. If we look at these priorities, we can see that since 2010, there have been a lot of measures, which are well-founded since health workers were the first to receive wage increases in several steps, scholarships have been launched to halt emigration and encourage job placement in deficiency professions. Emergency care is currently being developed, rescue stations are being renovated, new rescue stations are being set up to ensure a 15-minute check-in period. On the whole, however, we can also say that nearly HUF 300 billion and more than HUF 300 billion are being developed in health care. And it is a very important thing that Hungary has been a full member of Eurotransplant since 2013. In 2015, further development of primary care is the primary health objective. The strengthening of the general medical system is of the utmost importance, since the role of the gatekeeper of basic care is inevitable. The collaboration of practitioners, the creation of community practitioners, the protection of women, home care, hospice care or outpatient rehabilitation are essential to an effective care of patients, but it is also very important as a basis for preventive action. It is a serious burden for health care that, in many cases, patients who are most well-managed in primary care according to the rules of the profession are provided with a higher level of outpatient care or inpatient care. It is also necessary to continue and develop programmes that encourage young doctors to find a strong professional perspective in their professional profession. In the next year's budget, forints 10 billion are available as a next step in the development of basic supply, but we need to talk about the debt of hospitals, as the re-production of this has continued in recent years, and there is no delay in a single, significant debt consolidation. It is not possible to avoid reviewing the structure of outpatient and inpatient care and to create a stable and predictable operation. The first step is debt management, with a budget of HUF 60 billion. Since 2012? having regard to the labour crisis in health care, the migration of health workers, young, career-starting resident doctors? the deficit profession has been the subject of scholarship applications. The residency support programme will continue in 2015. This means that about 700 candidates for specialist medicine can be included in the program and receive a scholarship of at least 100,000 forints. Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, the average life expectancy expected at birth for both sexes is still lower than the European average, despite measurable improvement. In our country, both women and men can expect an average of two years shorter. Among the causes of death are cardiovascular diseases, followed by cancers, and the number of diabetics increases. In recent years, a number of measures have been taken in the field of public health since 1 January 2012 to ban smoking in public areas, but public health product tax has been introduced, legislation regulates the intake of trans-fats since the spring of this year, the establishment of modern hemodynamic centres, the provision of TV freedom, the development of emergency care, has resulted in a fall in the number of deaths due to acute myocardial infarction in Hungary, and we can occupy an excellent place in the European Union as well. [[10.20]] In 2013, 58 health development offices started their operations in the country, in close cooperation with general practitioners, local governments and civil society organisations. Involvement of medicinal products in health development, mental health centres, protective cervical screening, screening of private health providers, the launch of colon screening programmes in several counties, the continuation of these are all elements that are an important step towards improving the health of the population. However, it is extremely important to increase the participation rate in screening tests, and it is important that the importance of screenings and the culture of participation be part of a health-conscious lifestyle. Priority is also given to the introduction and provision of screening promotion programmes or a mandatory HPV vaccine. The launch of daily physical education is important despite the difficulties, because the number of athletes has increased by nearly 100,000 on a daily basis, and this certainly gives us hope that our public health indicators, our long-term indicators, will improve. Renewal of public health services is a priority in 2015 and the possibility of maintaining health for all age groups by developing knowledge and skills. It is important to improve the health culture of the population, to ensure access to public health services as widely as possible and to review our screening system and to improve efficiency. This requires, once again, further strengthening of the general medical system, the development of community practice and the expansion of primary care services with preventive focus, the development of oncological care and the continuation of health conservation programmes, communication campaigns and screening programmes that have already started. The public health product tax on unhealthy products will continue in 2015, which will encourage the displacement of unhealthy food and create the basis for health wage increases. The health sector has many problems, many challenges to meet the objectives set. Significant improvements, programmes are under way, which will lead to progress, clearly strengthen the security of the functioning of the health care system and determine the development of the years to come. I would ask my fellow Members, with their constructive proposals, with their positive, negative opinions, to help ensure that this budget can provide health care with the best and the most stable possible opportunities in the coming year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Gábor Fodor applauds.]]
u2014-11-20-20	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I now address the first independent Member, Mr Gábor Fodor, for his speech. The time frame is 17 minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that the budget that lies before us is a budget for the crisis and that the budget for the crisis, because unorthodox economic policy will not move the country forward; this is now seen by more and more people both at home and abroad. This budget only strengthens us liberals in our concern that, indeed, the government will not face this problem, will not face it, and has instead presented us with a crisis budget. Why is this a crisis budget that we have ahead of us? Well, first of all, because it is not possible to separate the budget from, of course, decisions on tax laws and cannot be separated from the economic environment in which it is born. What is this economic environment? It's worth looking around for a moment to see what we're seeing. That, as part of the Eastern opening policy, Hungary has also started an economic policy and a social policy from which the country's problems are growing. Are we in conflict with our Western allies, conflicted with the organizations we belong to? European Union, Atlantic cooperation? The confidence in Hungary on the part of the West has been at a historically low point since the change of regime. This will have tragic consequences, tragic consequences can already be seen from an economic policy point of view, and also from a general political point of view. Well, in a situation like this, when the government is pursuing a misguided policy, it constantly plays out trust, and instead of building trust in the West towards the Atlantic allies, it constantly deals with Eastern opening. That's what we've seen in the last few months in the case of Paks. Paks, of course, is not a simple question; the previous LMP representative, Benedek Sallai, mentioned this in a different context; it is not just an environmental issue, but a serious economic policy issue. After all, the system of national cooperation will end, and the country will remain here with the terrible debt and economic burden that Paks will be for us. Therefore, it should be remembered that such consequences are indeed due to the opening of the East, which will result in a tragic economic situation for the country in a few years' time. This budget that we have ahead of us, what we have in our hands, does not dare to face this problem. He pretends he doesn't exist; there is no such environment, in which Hungary today, no matter how we look at it, has fallen into the arena of great powers. Today, this budget is a failure of unorthodox politics, as I said, and a crisis of that. In essence, if this budget is implemented and my fellow members of the Government will vote? As expected? in the necessary vote, the country goes on to the gap as it has done so far, and they ignore the enormous international problems that are growing around us, and what impact this will have on Hungary. Think about how improvising this budget really is. In addition to not addressing these strategic issues, are there no well-founded calculations behind which we could say that, yes, the government is trying to face the international crisis that is emerging? for example, to face the fact that we cannot get economic help from the East, but we should build on the West, with whom we are fighting, fighting freedom fights, we are in serious conflict. The government doesn't face it, it doesn't face it, because we don't have these proper background calculations. Moreover, the Fiscal Council has also drawn attention to this, with caution, but it is possible for our fellow Members to remember these cautious wordings, but it has clearly shown that the revenue side of the budget is shaky, to say the least. And indeed, the whole circus around the Internet tax has shown us that an improvising tax introduction like the Internet tax has been very plastically confronting us with the lack of awareness of the government's side of numbers. After all, as many days have passed, we have heard as many figures as to how much revenue would actually be from this tax, and the intention to introduce the tax itself has shown how to fill holes in this budget. So, of course, one understands that, obviously, the pro-government representatives are trying to defend and support this budget, we oppositionists are, of course, trying to draw attention to mistakes, but for a moment beyond these roles, I must say, because of the shared responsibility for our own country, and I would like to draw the attention of all of us to this fact that this budget is going to be a huge problem because of these unfounded problems, because of the improvisational nature, and not least because of the lack of confrontation with the crisis. Of course, does the budget also contain a number of specific provisions on which my fellow Members are concerned? especially my opposition fellow Members? They've already spoken, they've been read in the press about them, which stir up emotions and emotions. Allow me to ask some of these symbolically important issues? Because of the lack of time, you can't take these things into account? Let me pick you up, too. One of the symbolic issues is that, in essence, the Social Policy Fund has been reduced by 60 billion, so we see a significant reduction in social policy benefits. This is explained by the presentation by honourable government representatives, Minister Varga, that I really want to promote access to work and not increase social policy benefits. This is a noble intention and a good intention, we can all agree on that, but the execution is, of course, wrong. Because we must clearly face the need to encourage people to work, not by reducing social benefits, but by increasing employment and increasing investment in one country. There will always be those who need social assistance, there is no full employment that we hear again from the side of pro-government representatives, this is an illusion, there is no, there is no such thing; it would not be right, I note, if it existed in a society, but there must be a minimum number of those who need to be covered by the protection of the social network. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a wrong direction that you are following, which will continue to be poverty in Hungary, and we will continue to see the gap between the rich and the poor. [[10.30]] I see the slogan of a work-based society as a serious problem, which is being talked about on a regular basis. They never defined what that meant. We liberals say that we should build a knowledge-based society, a knowledge-based society, where we value all kinds of work. This is why education policy should be focused, for example, not 125 billion forints out of education, if we add up the budget figures, we see this, but we should build on education policy, higher education and secondary education. What kind of social picture is it where you think that you should fight against high schools, where you fight vocational training? By the way, does the tragic nature of it really need to be strengthened? should you be confronted with high school education? Two important areas, all of them needed. But in the modern world, educated heads of people really need a society. For Hungary, in this economic situation, which I spoke about at the beginning of my speech, it is clear that the knowledge-based society can only be an outbreak point. Indeed, this requires intensive support for higher education, and this requires the development of secondary education, which requires that as many children go to high school and graduate. Indeed, it does not require that the age limit be set to 16 years, but that we raise it properly and fairly to 18 years. We need a very different philosophy than the one drawn from this budget before us. Allow me to end by saying a few words about the family support system that the pro-government representatives and ladies like to talk about. Family support is to support education and health care. This is the real family support policy, according to us liberals. In recent years, neither health nor education has received such support from this government. On the contrary, we see that there has been an immeasurable decline that negatively affects our basic conditions of life and our quality of life. Therefore, for us liberals, this budget is not acceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Tukacs of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Ildikó Bene's dedication to health, I do not dispute it, I respect it, I have had the opportunity to ascertain it. My point is, therefore, not personal, but merely that we have debates on the issue of health care. I've been listening to your group leader talk about the need to strengthen the GP's system. All I can tell you is that he hit the nail on the head after five years. What happened for five years then? So why are there no meaningful answers to the fact that there are unfilled practices? Why have there not been any meaningful answers to the fact that there has been no substantial increase in the financial resources of GP? And what about the excruciating problems that, I see, seem to be lost in the spirit of strengthening the GP's system? 'Cause what about emigration, what about lack of expertise, what about hospital debt, what about paraslvancia? It seems to me, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority of the government has recaptured something on the budget, a case, talking only about a general medical system, and only when it does not want to talk about what is going on in Hungarian health care. And on top of that, it adds that after five years, concepts are reborn. Then I don't really understand what's happened so far. Therefore, I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that we should also talk about the pressing issues, about the fact that there are a number of things in Hungarian health that at least require remote solutions and that no answers have been made to them. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-25	Thank you very much. I would just like to briefly reflect on what has just been said. Madam President, you have also very well summarized exactly what has happened in health care over the past few years. It is enough to point out that there are still 300 billion forints worth of health investment in 400 sites, and that we have been able to create an average 23 percent increase in wages and income growth for 95 thousand people from the huge lag in health wages. We know that there is still a lot to do in this, but this has happened over the past four years, at least we haven't taken away the 13th month's salary for nurses and civil servants like the socialists, and we have even been able to increase their income by a multiple of that. These are, of course, still covered in the next year's budget. One of the biggest problems, the emigration of doctors, the emigration of young doctors, is the additional 100-200 thousand HUF allowance for 700 scholarships. What is most important is that, on the one hand, you know that there will be more than HUF 10 billion available for you to work under better conditions, and that as a young doctor, you should be able to choose a career as a general physician, and on the other hand, that in terms of managing hospital debts, which has accumulated over many years and decades, we have also tried to reduce some of it, and that there is a central fund of 60 billion that aims to consolidate the debt of budgetary bodies to pay for it. A good part of this is likely to migrate to hospitals, hospitals that prevent these debts from being regenerating. In addition, to reduce waiting lists? Do you know that? there are also funds in next year's budget, and this year we only gave an extra HUF 1 billion for the last quarter to reduce the length of the waiting lists by 3,000 people. So we have to work at a very high disadvantage in health care, but we are doing this year after year, and next year's budget represents many, many tens of billions of HUF extra resources for healthcare in this respect. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A two-minute speech will be held by Mrs Bene Ildikó, from the Fidesz Group. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-11-20-27	Thank you very much, and thank you very much to my fellow Member, Mr Tukacs, because I believe that we have actually had constructive debates in the previous four years in the technical committee. If you have listened to my speech, Mr President, then every time and everywhere I have spoken, I have either said that those are the first steps, or I have said that we all know that there are very serious health problems and we have to face it. We both know that these problems didn't just start. I don't want to point back, these are very many years, tens of years, decades of problems, and then we can get to where the gratuity money came from, and we can get to what we need to deal with, let's say, after the change of regime. We also know how difficult our hospitals are. We also know that the GP system has basically just begun to get a little bit more for practice, support, practice. I'm sure that 10 billion forints isn't enough. That's why I said that, and I started by saying that this is a first step. Obviously, there has to be a sequel to this. It is also obvious that the HUF 60 billion, which now serves to settle the debt, is only to deal with the acute situation, and obviously it is the task, and I think that we have always been able to think and cooperate correctly in this, we need the next steps, yes, we need to think about restructuring in a sense that everyone gets the right care at the right level, that funding is appropriate, that there should be no unevenness in the system. I really agree with you that there are a lot of problems, but I would like to say that the results that we have achieved are very serious steps. Obviously, it's just your first steps that we need to continue, and I'm asking for your support and cooperation in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. ? István Tukacs applauds.]]
u2014-11-20-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr László György Lukács asked for the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-11-20-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Reflecting on the health debate that has arisen, Ildikó Bene's comments are a nicely-sounding rhymes to strengthen and concentrate on the basic care, but we have always talked about the general practitioners, even though I think it could also be about home care, nurses and dentists in this area. I believe, for example, that small measures such as the local business tax exemption of general doctors could lead to the improvement of the basic supply, which could, for example, be very easily passed through the House and would be very helpful to those working in it. But we could talk, for example, about why there is still a lack of a health career model, even though it exists only as a background material. But can we also talk about why the government spends instead of health care on, say, football players on the heated football field? Let's say, in a more pronounced way, ? Unlike patients who heal in unheated wards. So I think I'd rather see patients recovering quickly in a heated ward than, by the way, such football prestige investments. So let's start on this road and finally tell us what your plan is for basic care, for example, beyond the consolidation of the GP system, for example, what funds are available for home care, that the government wants to support this, why there are no additional resources, although it has been a question for years and the professional organisations have indicated in this. Thank you very much. I believe that we will be able to continue the substantive debate from here. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[10.40]]
u2014-11-20-30	Thank you very much. [[For signal:]] In the following two minutes, only one representative from one faction can speak in one round according to house rules. Dear Parliament, The two spokespersons of the committee representing nationalities are now taking the floor within a 10- to 10-minute time frame. In doing so, they have the opportunity to express the first sentences of their speech in their own language, if translated. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Erika Kissné Köles, the spokesperson for Slovenian nationality. Here you go.
u2014-11-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Spoštovani Gospod Predsednik, Poslanke in Poslanci, cenjeni Zbor! V čast mi, da Vas danes tukaj kot zagovornica Slovenskev na Madžarskem v svojem maternem jeziku lahko pozdravim! Nadaljevala pa bom v madžarskem jeziku. Mr President, Dear House, I am honoured to welcome the House here today as a spokesperson for the Slovenians in Hungary in my mother tongue. I have compiled my speech in Parliament on behalf of the interests of the 13 nationalities, but on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary I will continue in Hungarian. The aim and ambition of our Commission is to explain to the House that the operation of minority self-governments has been underfunded, the amount of operational target support from the central budget has been stagnating for years. These organisations are the main depositaries of the cultural autonomy of nationalities, which have reached the limit of their ability to perform because of their constantly increasing responsibilities and the strain of financial resources allocated to their management. I believe that my fellow spokespersons will be sufficiently aware of the need for change, which will be reflected in the increase in the amount shown in the budget for next year. Hungary has recognised that cultural diversity and linguistic diversity are not sources of division, but sources of enrichment. In the section of the National Creed of the Fundamental Law, it declares that the nationalities living with us are part of the Hungarian political community and constitute state-making factors. LXXVII 1993 law, known as minority law, first established minority self-governments in Hungary. The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. According to law, it is the fundamental responsibility of national authorities to represent and protect the interests of nationalities and to strengthen the cultural autonomy of the community represented. Following the elections on 12 October 2014, 2143 municipal, 60 regional and 13 national minority authorities in Hungary today exercise the following tasks and powers. Public education and cultural institutions are established and maintained; libraries, museums, theatres, archives, landscape houses, ethnic institutions, information and cultural centres are established and operated in the field of cultural self-management. They can perform the role of institutional supporters of national media and publishers of ethnic publications. They cooperate with the Hungarian authorities, local governments, the political and social organisations of the mother countries, other ethnic, religious communities and civil organizations in order to deal with ethnic matters. The activities of national minority self-governments are increasingly diverse. 41 educational and educational institutions are the sole maintainers, but they also follow ethnic education in several hundred other institutions maintained by KLIK or foundations. The public education contracts signed by EMMI and their national authorities and institutions and for the renewable and medium term, which we hope will last for five years, will ensure that our schools and kindergartens will continue to receive their budgetary support smoothly in the future, for which we thank the government. Our national governments have outgrown their children's shoes. They are increasingly making use of domestic and cross-border applications, making them increasingly involved in the economic development of ethnic areas. For example, various consortia have been set up with the aim of upgrading education, development of teaching tools, textbook writing, the creation of cultural facilities. The 2008 CV on the status and management of budgetary bodies. By law, in 2008, national authorities had a legal obligation to establish their own offices. The establishment and maintenance of the administrative apparatus in accordance with legal requirements has significantly increased the expenditure side of their budget, which has not been followed up by central grants, so that their everyday operation has become endangered. Regional self-governments are involved in the preparation of territorial development plans, the assessment of ethnic education needs, and the contacts of civil society organisations in the ethnic communities. However, their operating aid is minimal and can almost only be covered by its existence. Local governments organise the cultural and native-speaking beliefs of their communities, sports events, domestic and cross-border relationships. Their mission is to contribute to a more effective implementation of national education and education. They keep in touch with kindergartens, schools; native language camps, co-organizers of motherland excursions. The amount of support for their operation is extremely low: 221 and 271 thousand forints were available this year. The system of task-based grants is good, but they still require refining. It is important to know that the presidents and representatives of local minority self-governments carry out their diverse activities in social work to ensure the survival of their ethnic community. The amount mentioned above would not allow them to pay a fee. National authorities work together with national minority NGOs to ensure that ethnic communities living in Hungary remain a key factor in Hungary's development and perception by maintaining their identity, language, culture and tradition. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities expressed its comments on the 2015 central budget bill in the interest of some 700 thousand Hungarian citizens who claim to be nationalities and the organisations representing them presented above. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Oh be careful, because your mother's tongue has been entrusted to you by the centuries / and you must protect it. What's the matter with you? said Milán Füst to the Hungarians. We nationalities living in Hungary have the same mission: to transfer our linguistic, cultural values and traditions to future generations. To do so, we ask for the support of this House, when it comes to adopting the budget, that they vote in favour of additional national needs. Hvala za posornost. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-20-32	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. The next ethnic advocate is Mr Alexov Lyubomir, advocate of Serbian nationality. I give you the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2014-11-20-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsedavajući! Poštovana Skupštino! Veoma mi je drago da nakon pauze od nekoliko decenija mogu da nastavim vekovnu tradiciju Mađarskog parliament i kao predstavnik srpske zajednice mogu da Vas pozdravim na svom maternjem jeziku. Sama ova činjenica je veoma značajna za celu srpsku zajednicu koja već od ranog srednjeg veka živi sa mađarskim narodom na ovim prostorima i deli istu sudbinu. I'll continue in Hungarian. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am very pleased to be able to continue the historical tradition of the Hungarian Parliament after a few decades of holidays, and to welcome you to my mother tongue, representing Serbian nationality. [[10.50]] This fact itself is very important to the Serbian community, which has lived with the Hungarian people since the early Middle Ages, sharing the common destiny. It is my duty to forward the position of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary to this House, which aims to ensure that the operation, tasks and, above all, the proper support of the civil society organisations of nationality is ensured. The Fundamental Law name 13 nationalities in Hungary, whose existence and traditional activities also increase the cultural values of the Hungarian nation, and the intensive and effective cooperation of nationalities with the mother countries strengthens the diplomatic relations of Hungary. It is the strong position of ethnic advocates that nationalities with Hungarian citizenship, which derive themselves from another mother country, create value for the Hungarian country, diversity and cultural differences and knowledge, folk traditions, religious customs all lead to added value for the nation. During the general debate on the Finance Act, I would like to talk about only one segment of nationality public life. The free confession of the identity set out in the Fundamental Law and the care of the mother tongue and culture in addition to the opportunities offered by the local government system and religious practice, self-organizing communities, as in recent times, play a decisive role in this task in our present day. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. From the 21st century onwards, the native language reading circles and Dalards have appeared in historical ethnic settlements, whose role has been proven to be of great importance in the preservation of national and ethnic culture. Organization on a rational basis, though, has sometimes led to closure, but has also been a protection against possible other nationalist aspirations. From these roots have developed organisations whose role today is inevitable when we talk about the preservation of Hungarian nationalities. We all agree that the survival of multi-ethnic Hungary is also important for the majority nation. The Hungarian state gives an exemplary priority to national policy, setting an example that the issue of national unity is compatible with EU policy. Thanks to this approach, the guarantee of the rights of domestic nationalities is not in question; it is exemplary in the area of the granting of political rights. I will highlight this every time I have the opportunity to speak in forums for Serbian organisations in the region. However, the resources provided for the implementation of these rights are not sufficient. The fact that subsidies have not increased for many years has already been mentioned before the Parliament, especially in the self-organizing sphere of the association. In fact, unfortunately, subsidies in this area have also decreased in nominal value over the last ten years. In everyday life, further difficulties were involved in restructuring the aid scheme. Fortunately, the situation has now resolved, and these problems are no longer present in the EMET and NEFE systems. The system of cultural and other sources of tender that preserve identity is transparent and can be followed from submission to closure of the programme. The current main problem is the low level of resources available. The question arises as to why this sphere of ethnic public life should also be supported. Why is it not enough to maintain and operate the municipal system? In addition to the historical traditions, the answer is that the colourfulness and preservation that this hundreds or even a few thousands of ethnic organizations mean cannot be replaced by anyone else. The other argument is that this is the form of organisation that provides the opportunity to meet and organise Hungarian society and people with ethnic identity. Civil society organisations cover the whole of society, they actually train society itself, and while they form society, they form themselves. Civil society organisations are not bound by overly strict legal standards and are therefore flexible, able to adapt quickly to changes and can appear in deficit areas in no time. Regarding nationality, the work of civil society organisations is aimed at promoting the preservation of mother tongue education, singing and music, folklore, dance art, literary activities, acting, traditional care and identity awareness. Volunteering, emotional attachment, ensuring the survival of ethnic culture are key segments of national civil society organisations. The importance of the involvement of nationality civil society is not due to financial efficiency, but rather to the flexibility of the sector, its innovative nature, the personalisation of services, sometimes the lack of capacity, and the ability to rationalise and outsource government tasks by mobilising Community resources. Nor is it negligible that cooperation between government and civil society is an important condition for the functioning of democracy. Cooperation with government bodies is not only an economic issue, but a fundamental condition for the democratic functioning of a given community. In the current organisational structure, the State Secretary for Church, Nationality and Civil Society Relations is that part of the government that deals with domestic communities. The fundamental purpose of his work is to coordinate government tasks affecting relations with churches and nationalities in our country, and to facilitate the effective functioning of civil society organisations. As I said, my speech reflects the position of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, which is intended to express the priority and emphasis on the importance of the existence of non-governmental minority organisations and the role they play in preserving identity. The ethnic advocates of the Hungarian Parliament trust that this House will also take into account the interests of ethnicity in Hungary, through interests, the role of national civil society organisations as defined in the preservation of ethnic identity and in close cooperation with the mother countries during the adoption of the 2015 budget. During the last few years, Parliament has demonstrated on several occasions that it is important for it to ensure that nationalities living in our country are properly respected and protected. Further strengthening these efforts would be to ensure a worthy and satisfactory source of funding for the national civil society, which could also be achieved by increasing the amount of resources allocated to the Human Resources Support Manager, increasing the amount of resources allocated to nationalities, and providing greater resources to nationalities than the National Cooperation Fund. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-20-34	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Before I take the floor for the next speech, I quote the House Rule 35 of the Resolution. of the European Economic and Social Committee. In order to comment on the general debate on the European Union issue, the representative of the European Parliament in Hungary may, depending on the decision of the group leader, submit comments either directly or by the group leader. If the MEP has indicated his intention to speak through the group leader, his speech shall be deemed to be a member of the notifying group. As a matter of fact, in this case, it is against the time frame of that group. If you have registered directly for a speech, you will not be included in the group's time frame and will have to be given the same speaking time per independent Member, which is two minutes in this case. Accordingly, since Mr Zoltán Balczó of the European Parliament did not sign up to speak directly, but not through the head of the group, I can give the floor in a two-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.00]]
u2014-11-20-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So as the MEP for Jobbik, I speak. Yesterday's plenary also convinced me that a number of issues in the debate could not be declared as a winner, because, in fact, it is a matter of representing a different set of values, and that the voters will usually tell which one they consider to be the right one. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But there are questions in which objective figures can be used to determine whether the claim is true or not. This includes the issue of public debt, and I am not talking about whether or not the target set by the end of 2015 can be achieved, but about a statement of fact. Mr. Minister, in his expo, he said that we have successfully fought sovereign debt, that we have managed to reduce public debt. I'm quoting the government debt management center's data. April 2010, election month: HUF 19 323 billion in gross debt to the central budget. This September: 24 473 billion. The difference was HUF 5150 billion, i.e. the government debt increased by 26.7 percent. On a household basis? Like a reduction in the cost of the rent? It grew by HUF 1 million,256,000. Of course, this will not be paid by households, but HUF 1200 billion of interest is charged to this budget. Now, let's move on to my magic, debt to GDP. Hungarian National Bank, 17 November: In the third quarter of 2014, 83 percent of the gross consolidated debt of the general government. In April 2010, it was 79,6. Which one's the bigger one? 83 at the moment and 79.6 at the time. By the way, the Széll Kálmán plan indicated 67 percent. So one question remains: if you consider this a successful fight against sovereign debt, what would be a failure? Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-36	Thank you very much. We now have a preliminary speaker, on behalf of Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-37	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to deal with the situation of families in today's speech. When the Hungarian Parliament discusses the budget, every person, every citizen can ask himself what next year's budget will mean for his household, whether there will be more money in the pockets of families, whether the situation of households will improve next year. In Fidesz policy, the family was always the first, the child was always the first, and next year's budget shows that the situation of families raising children will be strengthened and improved. Of course, the underlying laws, tax laws and other laws also serve to further strengthen and improve the situation of families in 2015. We are defending a number of elements of our policy that started in 2010. We will, for example, protect the reduction of overhead bills next year, which reduces spending and costs by 20-25 percent in households. This means saving 150 thousand forints per year for an average of one family in the next year as well. We protect family tax relief; one of Europe's most elegant tax systems is the Hungarian family tax scheme. As early as 2011-12, the situation of families raising and working children has improved significantly due to the family tax relief. In the first round there was nearly HUF 200 billion more than the families who raised the child, and this year nearly HUF 240 billion remains with the families who raised the child. It is also part of our family policy that we not only take money away from working people with the tax system, but we leave it in the first place and take less money away from these families. From this year onwards, as of 1 January 2014, the tax relief was extended to those poorer families with lower incomes where they could not deduct the benefit from the tax. From that year onwards, they could benefit from tax relief from contributions. This made 270,000 families' lives easier. For these families with the lowest incomes, about HUF 35-40 billion more remained this year, which was not withdrawn from the tax system. Let me give you a specific example. For example, a parent with a minimum wage raising three children could save a net of HUF 16,000. And if you look at low incomes too, then families with three children virtually no longer had any taxes; that's how much we could support their situation. One of the best tools to strengthen families is the tax law. And in next year's budget, we can also see that we are laying the foundations for double tax relief for families who have two children in four years. We are also sending a message to society that they will not only take on the first child, but they will also take on the second child, because society, politics, the budget and the tax system support it, and we consider it a socially useful activity if families take on more and more children. By the way, we know that it has been said here among the walls of the House that many more children are planned by couples, but then in the end there will be less, because the second child will be born later, or the second child will not be born, and few will take on the third child. I think it is important, and you can also see in the next year's budget that we also offer a discount to the first married ones. Here we are talking about 5 thousand forints a month, which can be used for two years. Let me quote here my colleague, Mr Antal Rogán, who is a group leader, that this can be understood practically as having received a wedding gift of HUF 120,000 for the first married couple. This, in addition to the fact that there is a significant amount of symbolic significance, is the fact that Fidesz considers the institution of marriage very important, and through this we want to support the institution of the first marriage. Let me mention that we also talk a lot on the opposition and pro-government side about how much we can help especially mothers if we support and help part-time employment. We have already done this in the job protection action, but we can already see from next year's legislation that parents with small children who work part-time will still receive the same amount of tax relief for employers as full-time employment for these people. A very important family support measure was the extra introduction of the child. This will help families with young children in virtually every life situation. Let me get some data and some numbers on how the ged is extra successful, it's worth further strengthening the ged extra, and we're on the right track. The extra first part of the child was that if the mother goes back to work after the age of one year, she gets the child or the child. This helped 11,800 mothers in the first half of this year, and this is how many of them got the kid and the child in addition to the work. Another measure of the child is double care: if the little brother comes, the mother does not lose the first child after the kid or child. This has affected 7,300 families so far. These data refer to the first semester. And the third part is your diplomat. This is also extremely important, since young people studying in higher education, who have not yet had an employment relationship, cannot use the law, are not entitled to it. That's why we introduced your graduate in the ged extra. We cannot stress that this is also a message for young people that if they go to university, college, higher education, they should have children, we should help them by using the institution of the Gyed. The job protection operation will continue to expand; I have already talked about this. Overall, we helped 40,000 women to work with these measures, helped 40,000 women to work and helped them to keep their jobs. [[11.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz welcomes the draft budget law 2015 and supports its family strengthening and family support elements, as this coincides with Fidesz policy, which says that we should help families, especially families that are working with children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. István Hiller, Vice-President, on behalf of the MSZP, is coming to comment. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-20-39	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear House, When negotiating a budget proposal, the most important thing is whether there is a concept, a social picture, a sheet on which the numbers, the budget lines can be attached. In this budget, I see this concept, and I see this social picture, looking at the issue of education. This social image reduces the possibility of access to knowledge. This social image clearly thinks of taking the future of the young Hungarians, the school generation, from the direction of acquiring knowledge, in a completely different direction. Does this budget narrow it down? Because it creates the condition? the number of high school seats, even though young people go to high school, families send their children to high school to be college students. Therefore, the purpose of this draft budget is, in fact, to expand vocational training and vocational training to the detriment of high schools, universities, high school students and university students. There is a need for good vocational training, good quality and competitive vocational training. But the fact that you think that this goal is being achieved in the wrong and wrong direction is that it is your idea that it is a condition for the quality, improvement and quality of vocational training that high schools are? the first priority area for secondary education? This is an unacceptable, bad image of society, which not only reduces individual opportunities, but also reduces the competitiveness of future Hungarian generations. It reduces the international competitiveness of young people who are learning and growing up in a policy of education in a completely different direction within the European Union or, for example, in the Far East, with a practical education policy. Therefore, I must say that we socialists are not expressing our dissatisfaction only in the individual details, but we are faced with this concept, this society. We continue to see the best future of this country in increasing access to knowledge, increasing the knowledge of young people and increasing the diversity and quality of knowledge. But please do not say in just one comment that we do not advocate vocational training, raising the quality of vocational training, although what you do is that you happen to try to teach mathematics, literature or foreign languages at one hour a week, that is a sin. I have to say to you that any direction that serves to expand these opportunities is right, but at the same time the damage to Hungarian youth in the field of IT, for example, is the last 30? You hear me, so it's not 25, 30? Not in the year. We don't need everyone to focus on the details of education, but I don't know if you know that this budget plan directly states that in the last two years of high school, in the 11th and 12th classes, you will be erasing IT knowledge from September 2015. There will be no IT education in the last two classes of Hungarian high schools. You talk about our integration into a modern world by taking away the potential of 17-18-year-old young Hungarians, young ladies and gentlemen, rather than creating it, from one of the most important components of the modern world. I would like to examine the details in this framework. After the nationalization of the former municipal school system of Hungarian public education, they created their terrible center named after poor Klebelsberg. The second question in the budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre is whether, by the way, budget support is less or more than last year, the question is whether this centre works, whether it helps the Hungarian public education or not. I'm telling you it's not working, I'm telling you it's not the solution, it's the problem. The sooner you realize that this degree of centralisation is out of line with the goal and reality; are you taking the steps as quickly as possible to ensure that over-centralized Hungarian public education? In particular, the Klebelsberg Institutional Center? decentralize that every 45 minutes of each study group in each classroom of all Hungarian state-owned schools, from Nyírbátor to Zalaegerszeg, from an office building in Budapest, are determined to bring this to a county, but mostly district or if you like, district level; the sooner you recognize it, the faster you take good steps. The later they recognize it, and otherwise they think in this outdated, bad, and inoperative system that more money should be put into it, they're on the wrong track. At the same time, should it be said that a comparison of the budget of the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Centre? does it happen that there's a little more, roughly 30 billion forints in this year's budget than last year's? In fact, it is false, because twice in the course of the year, the government made an extraordinary decision to supplement last year's budget, because it was possible to see that the school year did not go away with that budget. Therefore, once in August, 19.4 billion forints and then again 20 billion forints were added. In addition to the addition, this increased 2015 budget does not contain any surplus in the world. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the real problem of funding public education is not this plus or minus HUF 30 billion, but because previously the funding of the municipal school system was based on two pillars? One was the direct contribution of the state, and the other was the contribution of the municipalities, which could never be planned in a budget, but could only be seen together in the budget of a given year, and later in the closing accounting law, compared to the experience of the first year of practice, so can it be said that you are after nationalisation? After the assembly of former municipal schools at Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center, HUF 120 billion was withdrawn from the funding of Hungarian public education. The Secretary of State better pay attention and not make up numbers, because then I'd be happy to confirm to him: [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: You'll figure it out in advance! ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: You make up the numbers!]] There was HUF 700 billion in funding the Hungarian public education, the municipal school system. This? If you look at the reports of the Cultural Committee for Education or the previous Education Committee led by your former educational politician? You'll find it numerically. [[11.20]] There are things in which it is not an opposition or a pro-government attitude that is important, but whether it recognises the numbers. That was 700 billion forints. We managed to cut it to 500 billion, now to 523 billion forints. The difference between the two is roughly 180 billion forints from which the municipalities? have you been proven by the closing accounting law? As an operating reservation, roughly HUF 60 billion was added. That if you add up the two, you'll get 180 minus 60, which is 120 billion forints. Dear Secretary of State, I do not wish to have an ideological debate with the government. I claim that the system, which was an example of the municipal school system a few years ago, provided more than HUF 100-120 billion for the Hungarian school system than after the nationalization. You, by the way, have escaped the teacher's career model, but could not keep your own promise. It can also be seen in this budget that the commitment made, the otherwise correct and recognised wage increase of teachers, puts such a burden on the budget that they will not be able to keep it next year. You are not raising public support for Hungarian public education from the base with the pedagogical career model, but you are reducing the cost of the pedagogical career model. So it is not that, compared to the budget of a given year, the budget is increased with the total cost of the pedagogical career model, but less is spent on the real costs of school and Hungarian public education, because their budget cannot bear the pedagogical career model. This in the 2015 bill, you correctly mentioned or mentioned that the additional cost of HUF 38 billion was HUF 38 billion, but the increase in the personal expenses of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre contains HUF 10 billion. In English, the base is reduced by 28 billion, too, because this is the only way out of the above mentioned budget section. Finally, we need to talk about some things that are not less important. Although there is a ministerial promise, and in this statement by Minister Balog, I believe that this nasty idea that wage state aid for educators at foundation and association schools, reduced by 25 percent, is only financed by 75%, is withdrawn, but why did it have to be submitted? Who had the idea that educators who went to the foundation school, who were most in need, would be harmed? Or who had the idea that our educational high schools teaching our most talented children would actually be reduced from the state budget? This can only be a similar idea as the two-language high schools, the system of two-language public education institutions, are now under attack. Here is at least one professional argument for me: why did German-Hungarian, Spanish-Hungarian, Italian-Hungarian, English-Hungarian not stand the test of time? And can I tell you more? The system of existing two-language high schools? ! It cannot be understood, because this is a small part of the budget, it has been proven professionally, and without this, the foreign language knowledge of Hungarian youth will be reduced again. But the direction they follow is that they want to reduce the number of high school graduates and increase the number of children in vocational training institutions to the detriment of it, so I respectfully ask you, while you support and defend this budget, how many of you are there to describe this career, this way of life, to your own child, to your acquaintance. How many of you encourage your children, your granddaughter, not to go to high schools, schools, universities, but to go to vocational training, who will send your children there? Doesn't that mean it's not? I'm gonna say it again? there is a need for a good vocational training course, but somewhere I find it false that three of the two-thirds majority, i.e. three of them, dared to answer the question of why, in the case of their own careers, their own families and their own children, they do not recommend the path that the vast majority of the country is actually recommending in this budget. What are the consequences? The consequences are, however, those that have existed in recent years, but are particularly visible and palpable in the present. The consequences of this budget are not borne by the fact that you are obligated to listen to you or actually accept it, but by increasing numbers you leave this country for learning or actually working to study abroad. I'm a fan of getting experience abroad if you bring that experience home. But the 19-20-year-old who is forced to go abroad with such budgets, at 20 years of age at university, learns a different kind of working style and world, a research world, where he first gets a job, where he first gets to know a boy or a girl, please, he will not come home, as practical experience shows. So the consequences are these. Now they have time to change, they have time to modify. Choose the way to access knowledge instead of reducing its access to knowledge for young Hungarians! We therefore submit amendments to enable you to avoid and cross your own limits by adopting them, but we cannot accept the current draft budget. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-20-40	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This speech also taught us that there is no number that another socialist could not give a bigger number. I see that here there is a kind of competition, a bidding between the socialists, who says a greater amount from the system of public education, to withdraw funds from the whole system of education. While there is no excessive basis for these, since if you look at last year's budget figures, this year's budget figures, next year's budget planning figures, you can see how much more the budget will spend on this, how much more of the costs related to raising young people. narrowing or expanding access, this is the dichotomy that you have tried to bring forward here, Congressman. I ask what limits and increases access to knowledge. The closure of small schools, which was a trend under socialist governments, I think restricts access to knowledge, while, let's say, the freeing of textbooks in an emerging system, which is a significant change, it expands everyone's access to knowledge. In addition, it also left 500 million forints in the pocket of the families this year, and in the entire state budget it meant one billion forints less expenditure by redesigning the system for the production of textbooks. I think that what the socialists did with the school closure really narrowed down what we do with the free textbooks is expanding. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How many have you opened?]] You can think about what narrows and expands access to knowledge. What the socialist government has tried to introduce, let's say, in the area of higher education, the tuition must have reduced access to knowledge. But the fact that we started the pedagogical career, which is one part and a very important part of the wage increase, and the other part of it is obviously that teachers themselves need to be trained as much as possible to register themselves in categories, teachers II, other master degrees, to prove that they are really prepared, that they are really constantly engaged in improving their knowledge, and that they can increase their wages and salaries by up to HUF 30-40 thousand, I think that this will increase everyone's access to knowledge, because they can teach them better prepared teachers. It would be appropriate to have a certain tone of opinion and to talk about such a high horse if the MSZP government or Minister could bid that during his ministry, teachers' wages increased more than now in the Fidesz-KDNP era. It can't be... [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Grimlock: 50%! ? The president's ringing the bell.]] [[11.30]] Mr President, from 2002 onwards, teachers' wages have not increased. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 50%.]] And then, in 2008, you reduced the wages of teachers by [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] They reduced the wages of teachers by taking away the 13th month allowance from everyone. [[András Tállai: That's right! The country is bankrupt.]] While from that period we can talk about a teacher's wage decline, which was the first time in Hungary's history of the regime change, I do not remember any other period that there was a government like the Gyurcsány government, I do not know if you were a minister or not at the time, but there was a socialist education minister who took away the wages of teachers, some of his wages, but this government increased the wages of teachers. This is also the honor of teachers, a form of appreciation is obviously a question of wages, that as we try to help health workers, we try to help law enforcement workers to get out of their pay more easily next year, and I think it's very important that this government dared to step away from it, that it did spend 160 billion forints in the previous year to increase the wages of teachers, and this year as well. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Why are they protesting on Saturday?]] 38 billion of the additional HUF 50 billion intended for KLIK is intended directly for the teacher's wage increase. That's why this year, the wages of teachers will continue to increase. They can't bid on this, I think, the socialists, that they would have given more to teachers in 2008, 9th, 6th, 7th, 5th and 4th, because they gave nothing in that period. So I think if we talk about education and see the introduction system of free textbooks [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: The one who got it!]] we see the pedagogical career model, then there is no reason to be ashamed of the Fidesz-KDNP administration's actions against teachers. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Go there on Saturday and tell me.]] Not to mention that, of course, as has already been said today and has been said before, there is also an increase in resources for secondary education, since the budget is HUF 209 billion instead of the previous HUF 196 billion. I do not know why you will spend 209 billion forints instead of 196 on secondary education, and why you will read that there will be fewer high school students in the next year through state intervention and state resources. [[Zoltán Pride: Because you don't know the details.]] You're describing things, nightmares under the budget law that you can't see in the budget. They could admit that more resources are being spent on secondary education and secondary education, but to learn from this that there will be fewer or more high school students, fewer or more apprentices, this cannot be possible, because this information cannot be attributed to these lines. As far as your rhetoric is concerned in the last few weeks, with which you are trying to tell us that we intend to close anyone here from the possibility of further education, I add in parentheses that the number of people admitted to this year is much higher in the case of universities and colleges than last year, and the number of candidates in the recruitment process was higher than in the previous year, so there was an increase in both numbers, in terms of the number of applicants and the number of people admitted, so, obviously, we would like everyone to have such a degree, I think there is a consensus in this, which is obviously appropriate to their abilities, talent, intention, and can also be placed on the labour market. So it's a conjunctive condition, both of which are necessary. We have taken steps to this in the past four years, which the MSZP government has not dared, precisely by the fact that there are now a lot more young people in their ratio to engineering, science and IT training, as we know that with these courses it is much easier to find a job, while other young people are now taking part in their rates of training for unemployed or unemployed. What we obviously want is for as many people as possible to get their skills, only when you're talking about skilled workers, and in a somewhat similar tone, sometimes condescendingly, like public workers, you forget that there are very many people in this country without qualifications. For example, in terms of their job placement, we launched the job protection action plan, which, as you know, provides contributions to people without qualifications, for example, so that they can find a job, because their unemployment is a huge problem, that they are unable to work. And a lot of people actually choose not unemployment and research professorship, brain surgery, to choose between these two, but unemployment or some kind of work. And for these people, vocational training can offer progress and work. We don't think to anyone that, obviously, after he gets it, let's say, a degree in biology research, then he's gonna do professional work. We want those whose parents, let's say, were unemployed and who lived on welfare, have no qualifications, no qualifications, they have no qualifications, they have the qualifications, they have the qualifications that they can then work with. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Even if he's talented? Caste!]] After all, we want Hungary to be competitive not only in Central Europe but also throughout Europe with low energy prices and well-trained workers. So please do not make the false parallel that someone here is doing professional work alongside the PhD, but one of the ways of unemployment, hopelessness, poverty breakout is precisely vocational training and professional work in our system. It was a little amusing that in a budget debate, Mr President, the fact that the KLIK receives more or less is a secondary issue, I think that if the KLIK received less money next year than this year, this would be a primary issue and the most important issue. [[Zoltán Grimlock: KLIK shouldn't be!]] It is also appropriate in a budgetary debate to talk about the fact that some sectors are actually farming with more or less money. The overall system of education will have more money to farm next year, according to the budget proposal, than the amount of which it has managed. In the area of access to IT, I think it is important that young people will not only meet the Internet in schools by 2018, but we will introduce it in every Hungarian household, on the basis of exactly a German model, so that everyone has a broadband internet at home. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Free?]] If you may need knowledge that you can only extract from the Internet, it is completely lifelike, modern, we obviously use it every day, they can do so not only at school, but also at home. Because broadband will also reach those settlements, where, by the way, under the great laws of the market, these companies might not be introduced, because they say that so few people live there, in that small settlement, that the construction of infrastructure is too much money for them. We say that the state is helping [[Zoltán Grimlock: Like gas.]] and it does take broadband to all young people in all areas, precisely so that those who are in the most difficult situation, in the smallest settlements, most difficult settlements, most isolated from many welfare services, in the settlements where you closed the post office, closed the school [[Zoltán Pride: And how many have you opened compared to this?]] And who knows how many places to provide public services, well, we've not only opened up a part of these schools, but we've also taken broadband internet for everyone. Because we believe that this is how you can build a developing and modern Hungary [[Zoltán Grimlock: Meg Mangalicatelep, that's it! With a nice, large mangalica plant]] which will have a very important basis for spending more money on both teachers' salaries and education next year than we did in 2014. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-42	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Pál Völner, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-43	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, Speaking of the development of transport in the period ahead, transport development in Hungary has not been experienced since the reform. The period since 2010 has led to the long-awaited development of road networks and related infrastructure in Hungary. The national transport infrastructure development strategy adopted by the Government and the new European Union financial cycle, which runs from 2014 to 2020, have an extraordinary potential for transport development. Between 2014 and 2020, a net budget of HUF 1605 billion is available from the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, the IKOP and the European Network Development Facility, the CEF for Hungarian transport development, which will be complemented by additional EU funds. The success of our country is also an example for Europe, as the EU has fully supported and authorised the government's major projects to develop the domestic road network. In order to improve and maintain local transport, almost HUF 73 billion is available for railway infrastructure operations and for rail and bus transport services, with a cost support amount of HUF 188 billion exceeding 2014. It also serves an increased amount of HUF 16.6 billion to account for the former expenses incurred by inter-local passenger services. All these expenditure appropriations together provide adequate cover for the operation of transport companies. The draft budget law is MÁV Zrt. It consists of EUR 3.6 million and HUF 22,3 billion in loans and bonds and their contributions received by the State without consideration. MÁV Zrt. the operation of the company is subject to significant financial burden by the stock of loans resulting from insufficient financing of the public service in the years prior to 2010, which has not been covered in order to repay; this has been ensured by the State over the past years, as will be the case next year. [[11.40]] In addition, HUF 56.7 billion is available for the proper maintenance and operation of the national road network, which was HUF 10 billion more than in 2014. In the coming years, major transport projects affect nearly 600 kilometers of highways, and the amount of funds to be spent is HUF 1500 billion. In the field of railway development, the government has given priority to investments, proving this over the past four years the HUF 760 billion spent on railway development, but it is not only that, unlike its predecessors, there has been a change in the attitude towards the railway: the government sees the MÁV as a strategic partner and is committed to the development of the railway company. The MÁV had previously operated at a loss and was more of a mandatory burden on the shoulders of the State, but it has now been able to reverse the process with the right steps; the railway has become a desirable means of travel and transport; this is demonstrated by the constant increase in passenger numbers on passenger lines since 2010 and by 3 million tonnes of freight transported by rail. The modernisation of the car fleet has been given a key role. The MÁV 42 and GYSEV 6 installs a new electric suburban motor train from EU sources and 700 railway wagons are renovated from state resources. In the near future, new modern motor trains will be put on the market, which run across the country, on its most important lines. The concept of track and station renewal is also outstanding at European level, which is now on the way to implementation. The renovation of the section between Székesfehérvár-Kelenföld was completed last year, as a result of which the journey time of the Budapest-Siófok road was reduced by half an hour, more Western-Hungarian lines were renewed, and the Szolnok-Sajol railway bridge was renovated. This year, the Lepsény-Szántód section will be renewed, where you will be able to travel at a speed of 100 km instead of the current 60 km, thus greatly improving driving time. The southern Balaton line development continues, the journey time is shortened, and the schedule is getting beat up. For 17 kilometers on this line, a new noise and vibration dampener rail bed is built, with a noise shielding wall for 4 kilometers. In Siófok, a new underpass will be built, which will also relieve the burden of transport. Our country's most important tourist destination will be accessible more easily and quickly than before. The Vác railway station, its 17 kilometres of road network, P+R and B+R parking lots, new platforms, underpasses, elevators will be built. The modernisation also affects sections of the cities of Rákos, Hatvan, Miskolc, Nyíregyháza, Kelenföld, Százhalombatta, Pusztaszabolcs, Dombóvár, Gyékényes, Biatorbágy, Tata, Debrecen, Püspökladány, the railway station in Szolnok, Szombathely is being renovated, and the high-quality connection between Ferenc Liszt International Airport and Nyugati Railway Station is being established. Large railway projects affect some 800 km, and the costs amount to HUF 1300 billion. Rail safety measures are very important. GYSEV spends nearly 800 million forints for this purpose. They provide rail crossings with state-of-the-art means, making it safe for other transport participants to cross. It also renovates its lines with similar investments in the area of Lake Balaton. It will continue to provide light barrier passageways and trap bars, and will display easily recognizable light signals even in sunny weather so that recent accidents do not recur in the future. At present, these transformations took place in 44 gateways, followed by some 130 in the near future. It is a new development that the new intercity cars of the MÁV have been completed, which will soon be involved in the traffic. In my opinion, there is no one among us who is not happy about the Renaissance of the Hungarian railway engineering and engineering work, the first copies of which we can see. The renewal of the bus fleet is taking place in parallel with the development of the railway. Its flagship is the hybrid articulated bus manufactured by Rába-Volvo, which was placed on the market in Budapest in November. It is also of high quality at European standards, characterised by reliability, longevity, and capacity beyond its predecessors. Hopefully, after the tests, dozens of such vehicles will start their service in the capital, making Budapest the largest hybrid bus fleet of Central European cities. The arrival of these buses will be the culmination of the process by which the Budapest bus fleet has recently been rejuvenated with more than 500 modern vehicles, which has also had a beneficial effect on the emissions of pollutants in Budapest. It is worth mentioning that the New Széchenyi Plan will accept until 31 December of this year the public and municipal community transport applications for the purchase of natural gas buses under the Green Investment Scheme will reach HUF 21 million per vehicle and HUF 28 million for articulated buses. The modernisation of the road network will not fail. The M3 motorway was extended by another 12 kilometers, which was completed one month before the deadline, and is now reaching Városnámény. Over the past four years, the M3 has been added almost 46 kilometres, and with this it has finally entered pan-European road number 5. The importance of this economic investment in that region is almost invaluable. The further expansion of the road towards Zahony is already on the table of decision preparation. The 62-mile route was reinforced by two bypasses, increasing the accessibility of the Central Transdanubian region, the use of the Danube bridge, increasing the competitiveness of the region and promoting increased economic growth. About 160,000 people living along the road are expanding their transport possibilities, connecting directly between Székesfehérvár and Dunaújváros. It owns the modern environmentally friendly technology, with which the time of construction has been reduced by half, but its life span has tripled. In order to optimise the road system, high-level transport connections will take place in county seats and larger cities. It must be said that not only traditional transport has a role to play in government plans, such as grants for tourism bicycle projects in GINOP. In addition, steps have been taken to improve water transport in Danube as a cheap and environmentally friendly solution. It is also important to point out that it is also a great success that Brussels has accepted as a model project the use of a voluntary benchmarking procedure for environmental licensing in other areas to ensure compliance with EU standards. Support for the solution confirmed by the first Hungarian initiative is a promising development for further major projects. This has already had tangible effects by making domestic investors more open to technical novelties. Finally, it is not possible to circumvent the success of the e-toll, which was introduced in record time, at much lower costs than expected, instead of the planned cost of 42 billion HUF 36 billion. This year, the system represents more than HUF 120 billion net, and next year nearly HUF 170 billion revenue for the country. In recent years, we have made significant progress in the development of domestic infrastructure, but we still have a number of tasks ahead of us in order to make up for decades of omissions. It is therefore of particular importance that the resources available in the budget cycle that we are now beginning be used effectively. The 2015 budget will start on this path, with a number of investments that will make us all more comfortable on our weekdays. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-11-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik.
u2014-11-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present the position of the Jobbik Group in relation to Chapter 19 of the Budget Bill myself, i.e. in the context of EU developments and the use of EU funds. The 2015 budget is specific in terms of the inclusion of runway programmes, i.e. programmes for the period 2007-2013, as the deadline for payments is 31 December 2015 due to the rule of n+2. On the other hand, next year's budget will include parts of EU and domestic resources for the 2014-2020 period for next year. [[11.50]] The appropriation, which can be found here in the proposal, is HUF 1725 billion, according to Jobbik it is certainly too ambitious. On the one hand, the opinion of the State Audit Office also draws attention to certain risks that appear and, on the other hand, if we look back over the past years, we can assess that there are significant differences between appropriations and performance in all cases. It is also worth considering how the situation is for each operational programme. There is indeed a significant dispersion of adsorption, and we are faced with serious delays in the largest number of operational programmes, such as the transport operational programme or the environmental and energy operational programme, but this is also the case for some regional operational programmes, i.e. a serious loss of resources in the context of the current cycle. Over the years? This has to be recognised - a real shift towards speeding up the use of resources, so progress has been made in this case, but the real breakthrough has not occurred, and in many cases, unfortunately, the only way we have managed to make this acceleration is that, in the end, we have been able to spend these resources, not for economic recovery purposes, but for unnecessary investments. In other words, the tendency has continued to spend a significant proportion of the available resources on programmes with poor efficiency and low value in the long term. Therefore, in the context of the next 2014-2020 cycle, it would be important to use the available money much more effectively and in a more targeted way. Has the magic 60 percent been mentioned a number of times from the government side? Have we heard this several times here during the budget debate? , which refers to the fact that we want to devote this proportion of resources to economic development, which is, of course, eligible. After all, if we look back on the last decade, which has passed since our accession to the EU, then we can say that we have spent the resources in a large proportion of them unthinkingly, and if we put everything on balance, then we cannot talk about a positive overall picture at all. Jobbik has also made it clear in its parliamentary and European Parliament electoral programmes that, instead of prestige investments, investments should focus on creating jobs, increasing employment and boosting the economy, and, in particular, we must pay particular attention to the SME sector, putting small and medium-sized enterprises in a position. The success propaganda that takes place from the government side, either in the context of the cycle approaching its end, or in relation to the seven years ahead, can be called rather deceitful and cynical, because? as I referred to in the context of each operational programme? in the seven years 2007-2013, the situation is not as positive, far less positive, as it appears on the government side and in the pro-government media. If we look forward to 2014-2020, we can see that cohesion resources have decreased by roughly 20 percent compared to the period left behind, so EUR 20.6 billion instead of EUR 25.7 billion will be available in this way, which is, of course, a better result than the previous original proposal, but in the case of such a significant reduction, we can talk about a huge success, I think that it is definitely a strong exaggeration and can be called cynical. Of course, the most important thing, honourable Members, is that we can really spend these resources and resources for development that can make a substantial contribution to the strengthening of the country's economy. The serious commitments were made here on the government side. We will certainly follow this process in sufficient detail. Dear Parliament, Our group has also repeatedly expressed the view that it is worthwhile to invest heavily in R &amp; D and to prioritise the domestic SME sector, to promote cooperation between higher education and business in substance. The most important thing, of course, would be for economic operators to face a reliable and stable environment. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have seen that very many times we have had to deal with sudden decisions. On the other hand, predictability and planning would be what we should be keeping in mind, because this is the only way we can achieve meaningful improvements, and this is how businesses can function predictablely. The National Strategy for R &amp; D and Innovation "Encouraging the Future" was published, with the commitment to increase R &amp; D GDP to 1.8 per cent by the end of the decade, in the context of the Europe 2020 programme by 2020. I would point out, however, that this commitment at EU level is 3 percent, although it is part of the whole picture that it is apparent from the current data that the Member States will not be able to achieve this overall. Indeed, there has been a shift in this regard in recent years, but we still have a lot to do in this area, because it is worth mentioning that only 13 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary are active on their own while the average is around 30 percent at EU level. It would therefore be a priority to strengthen the innovation activity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as this could contribute to the recovery of the economy and to the creation of a significant number of value-creating jobs, since statistical data clearly show that innovative companies can increase their workforce in a larger proportion, and this is particularly true for medium and small enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen, We therefore need to take advantage of the opportunities that lie ahead of us, as the resources available for research and development and innovation will increase significantly in the 2014-2020 period, with Hungary spending around 2.5-fold, approximately 700 billion forints will be available in this way, and it does not matter at all how and how we spend these funds. In the context of economic development, it is therefore important that the R &amp; D area is properly reflected, as this could give further impetus to the country's competitiveness. One more thing I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that the new public procurement law will be adopted at the beginning of next year. I am asking the government to give the government sufficient time to debate and to have a proper say in the preparation of the professional organisations. Unfortunately, looking back over the past years, we have seen that, indeed, in the case of proposals of such magnitude, this was not the case at all. I can only trust that this will happen differently in this case and that transparency will be strengthened and that the principle of transparency will be sufficiently enforced in the new Public Procurement Act. In this context, you have also made serious promises, which we will ask of you, and we will be involved in this process with sufficient activity on our part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-46	Thank you. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Vas Imre, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-47	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Within the Ministry of Interior chapter, I would like to talk about a very important area, although it is often a matter of little attention from the public, and this area is the enforcement of sentences. We all know that there has been a shift in the focus of criminal policy over the last few years, aimed at strengthening public order and public security. These include the three strikes law, the application of the medium rate in imposing penalties, and the package of law on public security. [[12.00]] The effects of these measures have resulted in a continuous increase in the number of prisoners. The average number in 2014 is expected to be 18 167, and the number of prisoners is expected to reach 18 500 by 2015. The establishment of safe custody conditions is the cornerstone of the functioning of the prison organisation, which also ensures the protection of prisoners. The government has set itself the aim of catching up with the European standards of prison institutions in parallel with the extension of seats. There has been no change in the prison system, but the capacity-building investments continue. The main aspect of these investments is the application of the most cost-effective solutions, since everyone knows that overcrowding has been the biggest problem in prison for decades. This fact requires the construction of new spaces, which are largely built in the field of existing prisons called brownfield investment. Over the past two years, for example, there have been room extensions in Kecskemét, Pécs, Budapest and Szirmabesenyő. Following these improvements, overcrowding can be further reduced. Thanks to the additional resources approved for 2015, the development work of the following four institutions can continue: Hajdú-Bihar County, Central Transdanubian, State Puszta Penalty Institute and Szombathely National Penalty Enforcement Institute. In addition, out of the HUF 4 billion additional funding, the initial capacity expansion concept will continue to be implemented, in which the investment of the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Penalty Institute will begin in petalbesenyő. In 2015 as well, there will be an outstanding role in the internal supply activity already started and successfully carried out in recent years and an increase in the number of inmates working, bringing us closer to the government's goal of full employment. The employment of prisoners is the area where professional aspects meet the expectations of citizens and the government. This can be summarised in the fact that anyone who can work at the penitentiary can also work. It is very important to teach prisoners not only a profession but also a culture of work for the purpose of reintegration purposes, since there are many prisoners who have not met decent work in their lives. Therefore, the total profits of companies operating in Bv institutions are reversed for the creation and creation of new jobs. Employment is closely linked to the expansion of internal care, i.e. what the Bv institutions can produce for themselves is also produced. The more internal care increases, the more employment in Bv institutions increases. In recent years, a number of new plants, bakeries and slaughterhouses have been inaugurated to serve this purpose. I take this opportunity to thank the professional staff of the penitentiary for their sacrifice. [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] who are doing their job in extremely difficult circumstances, which is what the government would like to reward with wage developments for professional staff. (István Tukacs intervenes.) Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the bill on the 2015 budget, which contains the financial resources of the very important area mentioned above. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2014-11-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Member, Imre Vas, because in a very important area of the Ministry of the Interior chapter, prison execution [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right! It's the most important thing. ? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In his comments and in his speech, he referred to his tasks in 2015. Indeed, I think I am not exaggerating if I say that the system of justice can only be complete with an effective prison execution, and that 2015 will indeed be decisive for the execution of sentences for at least three reasons. On the one hand, the new Code of Correction will enter into force on 1 January 2015. The preparation, examination of personnel, preparation for law and enforcement regulations are ongoing, and we can say that all personal conditions are ensured that the entry into force of the law will be ensured from 1 January 2015. The number of prison executions authorised for 2015 is 8755. Thus, the entry into force of the Code will result in a significant change in the daily life of the prison. On the other hand, the improvements that the Member has made are a significant step forward. After all, the sources of this, more than HUF 5.4 billion, are included in the 2015 budget bill. This includes the expansion of four current prisons and the construction of a new institution in Sirmabesenyő. Building and implementing these investments is a very big step towards increasing space. I believe that the conditions for this are set out in the bill. The third factor, which is a significant change compared to previous years, is the entry into force of the Armed and Police Lifestyle Model as of 1 July 2015. This also has a positive impact on prison staff. We believe that this is another way of expressing our appreciation for the personnel of the prison execution, as a result of which the salary of those serving in prison will increase by 30 per cent on average from 1 July 2015 and we can report further details following the adoption of the other elements of the career model, but I believe that this is a very big step forward in the respect of personnel. I would like to draw attention to one more factor, and the Member's comment also touched on this, namely: the change in the employment of prisoners following the entry into office of our government. Our goal is that all inmates who can work can work and work. At present, we are at 75%, and in 2015 we hope to take another step towards full employment in detention? These are useful, good goals. The Member spoke about investments, which we have made in part in the area of care, the provision of our own food conditions and other areas. In conclusion, I can say that prison execution is a major task for the effective functioning of justice, since in the field of the effective imprisonment of those who are imprisoned, I think this is a very important task. I, too, would like to thank the staff of the penitentiary for their service this year. I trust they will be able to work more effectively next year. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP.
u2014-11-20-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Do I start by saying this is the first look on the budget? And the way we know the contents of it deeper, anyway? in fact, it is about the fact that the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, has virtually openly abandoned social solidarity in this country. This budget does not give any answer to the problem that we now see every day, to mass poverty, and which, by the way, is reported by all relevant indicators, but you, despite all my efforts, refuse to acknowledge. They refuse to acknowledge that all the indicators that measure poverty represent Hungary as a slippery country, and the Hungarian people feel it on their skin. In fact, it is very difficult to understand what you are doing, because I think that in such a situation, you should work to strengthen the social network. [[12.10]] What are they doing compared to this? They will practically cut unemployment benefits and social costs. But let's be specific about the numbers. You are about to withdraw HUF 34 billion from the aid granted to municipalities, which has been given to municipalities to cover their social costs. In addition, a number of important forms of aid are being removed, and it is now possible that they might even want to reduce the amount of aid if I have a good sense of your communication, which has been 22 800 forints so far. In fact, nothing else happens here if we look at the whole picture but that you are going to turn yourself in and turn the problem of tackling poverty on the local authorities. That's what you're up to. And by doing so, they will virtually achieve that poverty, as such, will be the cause of the local people in this country. This isn't right. Because I think that we are a nation, because in poverty, when we are in poverty, we have to take on a community of fates. There is no such thing as the Hungarian government, and he says that this is a matter of the municipalities, I will sit back and raise my hands. What do you think you're doing? Here's community service. If I look at the numbers, what I see is that next year it will now reach HUF 270 billion, and if your plans come true, there will be 400 thousand public workers in this country by 2018. In fact, I understand that this is the only response you have to make to the painful promise that you cannot deliver, that you will create a million jobs here, a taxing job, that you will not be able to deliver. Neither did the socialists know this, and since the change of regime, we have practically one million missing jobs here. [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: To complete in ten years.]] Press the button, my fellow Member, you have 102 minutes and 55 seconds left. [[Interviews from the benches of Fidesz: Continue. ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't bother. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] So, the thing is, you guys can't deal with this problem, and you've come up with a way that basically keeps people starved to death, and you can't get back into the open labour market. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Back?]] Here I add that public workers are officially poor. These people who work in community service, they're poor people. They can't pay the rent, they have debts, they can't cover their unexpected expenses. It is virtually possible to envelop that if you cannot come up with another solution, 400,000 people will be in poverty in this country by 2018. Why am I talking about being kept in poverty? What I can tell you is that about 5-7 percent of public workers can return to the open labour market where they should be. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: What do you mean back? It's in, it's in!]] They should be there... Mr. Secretary, you should push the button, too, please. [[The president's ringing the bell. ? István Tukacs: We'll be happy to listen to you.]] The thing is, it's not a strategy. You can't run a country like this by promising to set up a million jobs on a regular basis, and then you're gonna start creating 400 thousand public jobs. This is the real balance of your governance. In addition, you are always offended when I say that this is a budget for austerity. But if Mr. Bence Retvári was so active and said that we should look at trends, let's see. In next year's budget, if I just look at active tools and talk about tools that can actually help people find jobs? I say, for example, training, job experience, entrepreneurialism, promotion of self-employment, wage support, support for job-creating investments by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, housing support, so these are active tools? I'm talking about 14 billion forints. I'll keep going. There is support for vocational training and adult training. This is also falling by half compared to 2010. And if I add these two numbers together, 16 billion and 14 billion, which can effectively help Hungarian citizens and compare them to 270 billion, then you can see and measure exactly how you think about Hungarian workers. Do you really think that this 16 plus 14 or 30 billion forints for active assets and 270 billion forints for community service is what this country's future is? Because I don't think so. Moreover, the withdrawal of funds from unemployment benefits continues. We'll have 50 billion forints next year if you force this budget. This is one third of the 2011 level. I would add that there are rather unprecedented measures going on here, and there is no such thing in Europe that if a person is on the streets, he can expect help from the state for three months, especially with the time and a half in this country when we are unemployed, once we are in this situation. You get three months, you get a job in a year and a half. What's gonna happen to him for a year? What will happen to this man for a year, fellow Members? Needless to say, the LMP will present a huge number of amendments and will be extremely meaningful. On the one hand, we would like to stop the process of you evacuating the aid register, and there will be virtually no money for the Hungarian people to hope for something from the state at the most difficult stages of their lives. On the other hand, we think that there are individual situations in life that we all may need, say, housing aid or debt reduction aid, whether it is money in this country. If we do better, show us that this is the time to rewrite the budget so that when the Hungarian people are in the most difficult situations, they have to reach out for support! Because that's not what this budget is about. We also have two initiatives that we are trying very hard to bring to your attention: on the one hand, the Community Fund for Economic Development and, on the other hand, the Green Investment Fund. These two funds, which could create jobs and would cost no more than your public work programme, would only give Hungarian people the opportunity to get a job that they can make a living on. You reject that as many times as you see it, because I see it's still hard for you to get into the situation that this is a XXI. It's a country of the century, and we should go that way. I propose to your honour that you examine the measures taken by those countries that have succeeded in recovering from the financial crisis. Did they create a community service program for 400,000 people, or did they make, say, funds like this to start the economy? Because these basics are also suitable. Moreover, we believe that the framework for vocational training and adult education should be increased and, moreover, what I have said, this ratio between an extremely disproportionate public work programme and active tools should be changed. I'm not saying there are places in Hungary where community service can be the last straw at a time when there is no other employer. But this has to be for a certain time, it's not a lasting offer, a future perspective, a vision for the country. It's a temporary situation when the state reaches out and helps. But to do this for the future, it's very steep. I will continue by saying that you have once again put in place a family policy action programme. I'd like to see the action now, Your Honours Secretary of State, because there are too many programs now and there is little coming out of it. Technically, you're campaigning here with this two-year-old tax discount as if we could use it next year, even though there's not a penny left in this budget. You said in the campaign, and I can tell you that you lied that next year it would be there and that families with two children could use it. Well, compared to that, we're talking about getting nothing next year, and then it's going to rise gradually for four years until we can use it. What is the guarantee that next year's budget will not be cancelled in two years' time or three years' time? Nothing. So I think that we should not campaign with what has not been done, because this is quite a scam for Hungarian voters, I think. It's a tax relief for married people. Look, of course, KDNP is always prepared to ideologically educate Hungarians, young people and older people alike. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The LMP won't, will it?]] But I'd like you to acknowledge that. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert:]] According to international experience, fertility and marriage are not in the same relationship as you would like to see. Many children are not born because people are married. By the way, is it typical in Hungary? Do I specifically recommend this fact to KDNP because they refuse to acknowledge it? A lot of couples get married when the baby's on its way. So I think that it is better to pay attention to the fact that women in this country have a job that they can do while raising children. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's at the peak!]] LMP has been struggling for a very long time to create flexible jobs that can be done in harmony with child rearing. You must understand that part-time work is not a solution for most women. Unfortunately. Most women can't make a living on part-time work. Unfortunately. But as long as that is the case, it would be your duty to ensure flexible working hours, that some of it can be done in the office or where we work, and that we can carry the work home, where between washing and while our children are having dinner, so that we can make a living in this country. That's what's happening now, that's the fact. That's the big deal. So please take into account the need for flexible jobs in Hungary and part-time work is not enough. I can say the same thing about housing conditions. It's very important that you can't get an apartment in this country without self-esteem. I think that the rental scheme would be a major step forward. I commend you all to carry it out. Cradle seats. So, you've made a third of your promises. Now they're saying they're going to create 60 grand by 2018, which means 20 thousand will be created, because you're going to be able to do this at this rate of one-third. In addition, I would like to say a separate word here to make it the worst possible way to make family day care impossible. These institutions can be made cheaper and more flexible. Now there's a situation where if a family or someone decides to do a family day care, they don't get a penny from the state for that. That's nonsense, because that's exactly what could help ease the space problem. In addition, they are not as generous as many people think they are with crèches. 50-60 percent of the actual space cost is covered by the state normative, and the rest is taken from the families to the cradle. [[12.20]] It is not normal either, I think that parents are burdened when Hungarian parents already have enough problems. Raise this normative in the day care center and help family day care centers to leave. They would be happy to be used by Hungarian mothers if they were. I would add that the government running around the family allowance is really out of words. In a country where child poverty is high and all poverty rates are skyrocketed, it is embarrassing to introduce such a one, practically punishing the poor again. There it is, by the way, I looked into the kindergarten support. I'm going to suggest to you that you give me a little credit for this, so that the poor kids can finally have something plus if they're clearly taking something away from them with the family allowance for kindergarten. They won't reach their destination, but the children will have even less food on the table. And I would add that we will put forward amendments to these proposals. I hope I have been able to outline to you why this is necessary. And I would add that there is a great need for a female Minister for Labour Commissioner and even a ministerial commissioner with whom women's problems can be discussed in substance. Nonsense is that when, for example, I raise problems with breastfeeding, I have to write with Bence of Rétvári. I acknowledge the merits of the Secretary of State, but I think it would be good to have someone in the Hungarian Government who understands this area and is able to review women's participation in the labour market, fertility and equal rights in women, and to talk to them on merit, for example, on the issue of domestic violence. They should also note that the fight against domestic violence as such requires support and resources from the government. The Istanbul Convention should be ratified. We in the LMP have been saying for a very long time that this is absolutely necessary, and we ask you not to withdraw from the victims of family violence the resources from which they will then build stadiums, but to give us the money needed to ratify this convention in order to reduce domestic violence in this country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-52	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-11-20-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, I absolutely respect the enthusiasm of the congresswoman. I can't usually agree with anyone else, but that's what you do perfectly, saying six minutes of things in three minutes. We can barely take notes on these issues. You spoke very enthusiastically from the beginning to the end of your speech, but your vision at the beginning is, of course, completely wrong, which criticized the government's social policy and in which you referred to a social contract and such. Madam Member, I believe that we are all democrats here in this Chamber. If this government had actually been pursuing a policy that you have outlined here in the last four years, if it had been so against society, if it had been so much of a loser of Fidesz-KDNP's policy, then you would be sitting here until two thirds of Parliament and not us, because then people would consider what you said to be a credible alternative, and then you would not be sitting in a shrinking faction, but in an expanding faction. But that the Fidesz-KDNP administration offered a good solution for the overwhelming majority of Hungarian citizens to the problems that we inherited from the socialists, and that part of it was caused by the global economic crisis, so that we had good solutions, the evidence that people gave three opinions on this in 2014 and three times said that they wanted to follow the direction of Fidesz-KDNP. When you say the same thing you said here last year or the previous year with the same orientation, please note that the Hungarian people have given three opinions and are not the mayors of LMPs in the majority of the country, LMP does not give the most MEPs or Members of Parliament here, so what we have done in the last four years has been agreed by the vast majority of the people. Therefore, the direction, whether in terms of job creation, social policy, education or other areas that you have affected, which we have taken, has been approved ex post by the people. And the stronger an opinion in a democracy than the electorate's opinion, there isn't. Let me correct one word for you about the public work programme: you say that a small part of public workers will be returned to the labour market. It seems that you live in the world within the Nagykörút that people work and then enter the public work programme and then return to the labour market. That's not how it happens! Most of those people haven't been anywhere near work for years, but this is their only option. Is that why we call it the Start Work Programme? Are our names very important? Because that's where the person's labour market activity starts, that's where he gets into the world of work. In the Start Work Programme, you will get some job opportunities, some skills if you need them, and then you will not be able to return, but you will be able to enter the labour market. And the fact that we were able to create jobs for hundreds of thousands of people, unemployment went from 11.1 percent to 7 percent, means that this program is a success, because these people do not have to make a living from aid, but from an average gross public wage of 70,000 forints, which, of course, is obviously not enough to live in the middle class. You said that this is very difficult for many. That's right, but they're ahead of us three or four years ago, not just because they make more money, but because they have a better chance of getting laid. You said that more money should be spent on entrepreneurial training. This is an earlier approach, which was the main slogan of a former party present here; we call the SZDSZ once again a corpse, for several times today. We say that we do not want to provide a great deal of resources to those whose parents run a business, or who already have similar qualifications, to start another entrepreneurial training course, but to give them capital, support or a very favourable loan in the GINOP programmes, so that they can start their own business, and thus help and manage their own and others' employment. So we've spent a lot of money on soft costs, soft costs, all kinds of questions. We want to start the business, not talk to someone about what to do, but give them the opportunity, the money to start doing it. I would also like to refer the action plan for the protection of jobs to the attention of the Member, which she forgot to mention when it comes to employment for young mothers, unskilled people, long-term unemployed people, but this includes beginners or workers aged over 55 in the protected age. In order to maintain their jobs, the budget has so far issued billions or hundreds of billions of forints in order to keep between 700 and 800 thousand people in work in the framework of the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs. That's what we've been trying to do. The issue of poverty has also been highlighted. As you know? And have we said that many times in this Chamber? , putting someone to work costs about three times as much as aid to the Hungarian government, but we say that we prefer not to pay a third of them for aid, but we spend three times as much on the person's job, whether in the Start Work Programme or in the market. If you look at the release page of the job protection action or other similar items, you can see that this costs a lot more in Hungary. But for those who have the most difficult situation? Or is it because they were aiding, or from a different point of view? We have launched a programme of HUF 29 billion, directly for the people in need, for their support, which we trust will be able to provide 29 billion forints of help in food or children's diapers or other assistance in the coming years who are in the most difficult conditions. That's what we could call a food aid program. The budget for this is HUF 29 billion for the coming years. With regard to family support, I would look at it in political thinking or communication: if there is something in which it is not worth attacking this government, it is precisely family support, because if someone thinks back for the last 25 years, then you can see that what the families received as an additional benefit was received when there was a Fidesz-KDNP government in Hungary, when they called the Prime Minister of Hungary Viktor Orbán, and when they were taken away from them, it is linked to the names of Lajos Bokros, Péter Medgyessy or Ferenc Gyurcsány. What if there's something in this government that I think is recognized by everyone? And isn't that something a opposition party should be ashamed of, if they think it's good, for example, to have family-type taxation? That's the area of family policy. As a result, the rate of population loss has decreased for several quarters, with 3,000 people. We know it's not enough, but it's finally turned around. Hungary has been losing weight at an increasing rate for 30 years. In the last year and a half, Hungary's population has been declining. This is the result of this program and obviously the 700 billion HUF spent on this overall, which is visible and reversed a 30-year trend over the last three to four years. [[12.30]] With regard to women's employment, honourable Member, when has women's employment peaked in Hungary? Now, in the last quarter. After all, 133,000 more ladies work than they did a few years ago, and obviously 12-14 thousand thanks to the ged extra, for example, to their return to work. Finally, our bill states that women must offer atypical forms of employment to employers if they so require. The result of these measures is that what you want is actually achieved in these data, and as many women have never worked in Hungary as they do now. That's why women's employment is at its peak. And there's one more thing I'd like to tell you, which was also a misunderstanding, similar to community service. The family allowance, by the way, cannot be read from the budget, Madam honourable Member, but it is indeed the government's plan to tie the family allowance to the kindergarten. Next year, from September 1st, kindergarten is mandatory, except in a small circle, where you can get acquittal from the notary. Just as the family allowance has been referred to as school support from 6 to 7 years of age, as it is linked to school attendance. This is precisely because there he was successful with regard to schoolchildren, did he not reduce the number of unauthorized absences by 40 percent? The basis for compulsory kindergartening is that the disadvantage that a first-year, school-age child may be forced to suffer, as it comes from more difficult circumstances to the school bench, is far more detrimental to his family circumstances, the circumstances of his settlement, and we want to compensate him by trying to create a chance for more difficult, disadvantaged children from the age of three to get their skills, competences or various community attitudes in kindergarten conditions at a more equal age of 3 to 5 before going to school. And while earlier there was a much greater disadvantage for a first-grader who came from more difficult circumstances than who, let's say, went to school from a better district in Buda, we are trying to work off to bring in some of this disadvantage by compulsory kindergartening. Therefore, it is important to attach the family allowance to kindergartens, with a later law, of course, that parents who do not pay attention to their children, do not pay attention to their education, and do not pay attention to whether or not the child goes to school, do not pay attention to children in kindergartens, and there, from the disadvantage that might be for that child, we work off with the help of the state, because this is something that the family could give basically, for reasons outside of them, or because of negligence, they cannot add the child's disadvantage to the parent's not even taking the child to the kindergarten. But there, you do get several meals in the daytime. You know that, although you forgot to mention this, while, say, four years ago, we spent 29 billion forints on children's meals, this year rose to 53 billion and increased to 56 billion in the next year's budget. So the amount of food for children will continue to increase, and this has not been an increase in inflation in the last four years, so it is much better to provide for children. So from the age of three, when you go to kindergarten, you go to primary school, high school, and you get the food that you might not give at home with multiple meals a day. These measures, which you have criticised, often improve the situation of the most difficult, disadvantaged children who are most vulnerable. And we didn't feel sorry for the budget forints, nor for the summer meal, and you forgot to say it yourself. Compared to last year, we increased it by HUF 270 million this year, and next year's budget will increase its value from 2.6 billion to 3 billion. And in the course of the year, 270,000 children get these forms of food for free, and 150,000 children get them for half price or discount. These are actually measures to eliminate poverty and reduce the disadvantages of poverty, and I trust that these proposals, if not for you, will be supported by citizens in the same way as the measures we have taken in these three elections this year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-54	Thank you very much. Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, would like to speak outside the line. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Our fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, and before that, Mr Lajos Korózs, addressed the issue of public employment. This is a very important topic that came up several times yesterday. I am pleased, by the way, that this has been raised by my fellow Members during the debate. I am not happy that we have not heard almost a good word from our opposition fellow Members about public employment. Allow me to present a publication which, by the way, was sent by the Ministry of the Interior to all Members of Parliament. Following the introduction of the new system of public employment in 2011, we present the results of the 2012-13 and 2013-14 public employment. This publication presents the Start sample programmes, the system of public employment, the municipal programmes: the internal water management programme, the recovery of agricultural roads, the use of bio and renewable energy, the improvement of the inland road network, the elimination of illegal landfill sites, winter and other value-creating public employment, programmes based on local specificities, other Start work programmes and then special programmes, the Ferencváros social employer, the Digital Archive and Film Institute and other special programmes. With respect, I recommend it to the attention of my fellow Members because it is worth turning, reading, and then getting a realistic picture of what is really important and what value-creating work hundreds of thousands of people who are involved in public employment every day are doing. I think that if they do this, they can really deal with this issue with greater respect and greater empathy. Anyone who doesn't have this publication, by the way, I'm happy to give it to you. As regards the 2015 options, we would like to stress that, compared to 2014, when the initial appropriation was HUF 183 billion, the 2015 appropriation for public employment is HUF 270 billion, and the government's primary objective is to provide those who are excluded from the primary labour market with an opportunity to participate in the value-creating work. That's what public employment is for. It's not a goal, it's a tool. The government's aim is to ensure that as many public employment programmes as possible, as many start-ups as possible, contribute to the return of participants to the labour market. Our long-term goal, which has also been said in this debate, in the general debate on the budget, is to enable public employment to be extended until 2018, so that everyone who wants to work can create the conditions for doing so. We also hope that market employment will increase during this period, as our aim is to enable as many people as possible to work in this area, but for those who fail to do so, we can create participation in the value-creating work. Therefore, in 2015 the draft provides 270 billion for public employment in the National Employment Fund. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Font Sándor Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amounts of the budget submitted in the agricultural area and the draft submitted, I can safely say that both the State Secretary for Rural Development of the Prime Minister's Office and the parts belonging to the classic areas of the FM ensure that we create more jobs in agriculture. And we want the people who live there to live in honor of it. As is well known, there has been a significant change in the support system for agriculture due to the changes in the EU's rules, and this new set of rules, as well as the possible allocation of incoming aid funds, is being carried over by the budget and provides farmers with a new system. The basic support still exists in a classic way, and then a greening component is linked to this, and we will need to provide information to farmers so that they are aware of the conditions for calling for support when submitting the next year's aid. After all, the greening component will only be granted to farmers and field farmers if crop rotation is respected, if they do not reduce their area to a large extent with permanent pasture, or if the ecological target areas are separated by about 5%. [[12.40]] Support for young farmers remains a key priority. On a voluntary basis, the Hungarian government has always provided support, and now the support of young farmers had to be transferred as an EU obligation. This is a joy for us, because our goal is to rejuvenate farmers and involve young farmers in the system. In a classic way, production-related subsidies remain. I would like to mention this in particular, as we see a significant increase in the draft. What will be quite new is the simplified support scheme for small farms. We are also taking one of the EU's opportunities when farmers with about 1-5 hectares will be able to apply for some EUR 500-1250 per year in a very simple procedure. The possibility provided by the European Union in terms of mobility is to withdraw the basic aid of over 1,200 hectares for many people in areas over 1200 hectares. This is a significant amount, which will be transferred to livestock farming, which has always been a problem in Hungary, and in particular to craft work areas, such as grape and fruit production, the production of the haired plant house, and the cultivation of propagating material. As I said, it is inevitable to provide more jobs and livelihoods in agriculture as well. The government has launched a special programme to create more jobs, with a targeted transfer of HUF 212 billion, including HUF 180 billion from the national funds we want to secure. The amount of money included in the so-called current expenditure and income subsidies appropriation is always an exciting stage in the FM chapter. I would like to note that there is a significant increase here. It seems that the promise and transfer of resources that caused a great storm here this summer can be found in our budget system. Of course, there is always an idea of what additional funds might need to be paid for this purpose. Let me mention that there is so-called transitional national aid in this area. This is a very important amount which, due to changes in the various rules and support schemes, provides support for domestic schemes, which are generally not eligible for EU funding. This fund will be about HUF 20 billion larger next year. This will amount to HUF 36 billion in 2015. It is well known that after the accession of Hungary in 2004, the livestock farmers have suffered a very serious loss, and the number of animals has fallen enormously. The priority objective of the government and the budget that we have just submitted is to encourage livestock and livestock production, and to increase the number of animals. This is what we want to encourage farmers to do. The EU does not directly support a number of areas in the field of livestock farming. These are the pig and poultry sectors. We need to find a way to do this on the current level of expenditure mentioned above. We will find this, as we see this option in the poultry sector as part of animal welfare aid. I note that in 2007 there was still HUF 4 billion available, now in the draft it is HUF 11 billion, which can cover the application claim for almost all poultry farmers who submitted it. The same pig sector, which cannot be supported directly from EU funds. However, there has always been a national allocation of support, a rather significant amount, compared to the year 2010, for example, 2015 will increase by around 40%. That will be 8.5 billion forints. Let me mention, in particular, that there is still a significant HUF 1.4 billion available under the pig programme, which aims at selecting genetic funds, research and development, but as a whole to increase pig stock. Here, we would like to place a special emphasis on Mangalica, which, as an indigenous breed, has a very good career and success ahead of us. Those who have watched the summer public data and news, both in North America and in the Far East, have become extremely high demand for this kind of meat, and we can hardly satisfy the supply of meat in those countries, thank God, which is a high premium category; this is particularly true, as I said, for Japan, the Far East. Farmers have had a very serious problem and are currently suffering possible damage, both weather damage suffered by farmers and possibly any other natural damage. We know two types of this. One is when farmers try to mitigate their damage through market insurers. A? According to jargon? a few years ago, we tried to provide additional support by HUF 1,5 billion, thanks to God, more and more free market insurance is being made by farmers, 13 thousand insurances have now been made over the past year, and we would like to continue to support this as additional support by HUF 5.7 billion. At the same time, it is well known that the national agricultural compensation requirement for all farmers is HUF 4.3 billion. Unfortunately, there were also farmers in 2014 who would be affected, but fortunately, 2014 is not one of the years affected by very significant agricultural damage. It seems that the system of agricultural compensation is now in place for a stable tender, and farmers understand that they must participate in the National Agricultural Compensation Fund from the smallest to the largest. It is known in professional circles, but perhaps farmers are even more concerned with one of the most serious errors in the compensation system, the creation of so-called undivided common areas. The money transferred to this area in 2010 and 2011, with which we would like to eliminate the undivided commons, has started and is very successful. The previous government did not excel in this, because it was not possible for the farmer to do anything with the undivided joint, and therefore it is obliged to give back to the companies that have been transformed from the dots, and they could not obtain their own land from farmers with undivided common ownership. This is what we want to do, and we hope that by the end of the cycle we will return a significant amount of undivided common land with a rightful ownership title. We have now increased the amount of money that could be transferred to this area to HUF 3 billion in 2015. Perhaps even independently of the government side, because I understand that the opposition side also has a significant impact on the farm development programme, we will still be able to secure HUF 1.4 billion in this area. One of the most successful programmes is its own financial resources and national financial resources for the government period 2010-14, and we would like to continue in the current government period. There are also increases in EU co-financing grants. Let me mention two areas, one: we have raised the national part of the highly popular school fruit scheme. In 2015, HUF 1.7 billion is available to supply healthy products to students from 1-6th grade of primary school. I note that while in 2009 and 2010, the 278,000 1-4th grade students of 1608 schools were provided, 2124 schools and 552 thousand 1-6th grade children will participate in the current school fruit scheme, i.e. about 95 percent of the target group will receive an average of three portions of fruit, vegetables and fruit juice for 29 weeks. [[12.50]] In 2015 we will continue the popular too,. Drink milk! It is also supported by a programme, which will increase from HUF 1.7 billion to HUF 2.3 billion. Thanks to the measures taken in recent years, the number of beneficiaries in the programme has increased dramatically. While 150 to 180 thousand children were provided in 2009, more than 420 thousand children receive dairy products on a daily basis in 2014, and this number is expected to increase further in 2015. Here I wanted to respond with these specific data to the overdramatic version of Bernadette Wind's number of children who are overdramatizing poverty and unfed at school and at home, who do not receive food. [[Intercoms, noise in the opposition benches. ? The president's ringing the bell. ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did Wind Bernadett go?]] Please, it's just the supply system here in the school fruit program and the milk. The program is now even more well named, and then going to the mandatory kindergarten from the age of three, these are exactly the programs with which they feared a lot, but perhaps we are even more...? and we are also making sure that this unpleasant situation does not occur, that children who go to school hungry may not even receive supplies at school. Here is the eloquent proof that the Ministry of Agriculture is taking care of this, also the socially difficult situation. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] And, as you know, rural development subsidies have become the responsibility of the Prime Minister's Office after the government's restructuring, but the measures of the old and new rural development programmes support the Hungarian agriculture with a further HUF 302.4 billion in Hungarian and EU co-financing. This amount exceeds the amount available in 2014 by HUF 50.4 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover, inter alia, the structural development of the sector, including investments in food processing, the start-up of young farmers or the social and economic catching-up of our rural areas. In the case of aid directly affected by the EU? which are not included in the wallet's budget? the area and other direct aids are expected to receive a total of HUF 389.6 bn in 2015, of which HUF 25.3 bn in market support, while the area aid will amount to HUF 364.3 bn. I would like to note here that some people who do not understand the budget have pointed out to us that, while they saw HUF 423 billion in the last year in the FM chapter, now there was only HUF 213 billion, there has been a dramatic decrease, the small thing I have just shown that the rural development part belongs to the Prime Minister's wallet, and there are the very large amounts that we add up? Rural development section of the Prime Minister's Office and the FM chapter? It is clear that there is a significant increase in resources for agriculture. By the way, I believe that the funds on the lines of the FM and the Prime Minister's Office together with the resources from the European Union can put the agricultural sector in a very stable position in 2015, and the programme for more jobs and livelihoods in agriculture is certain to be successful; this will also be felt by farmers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Pride: We'll talk about it, Sanyi!]]
u2014-11-20-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Font. Speaking in order of business, President Novak, Congressman Jobbik. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-20-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, I am obliged to ask for help in order of business and complain about László Kövér's little kingship, as he is messing with the small-scale obstruction of the entry of our expert guests into the parliamentary building. I would like to speak in the debate on the budget tomorrow as Chairman of the Parliament's Population Sub-Committee, and I would like to welcome Imre Téglásy, one of our country's most famous lifeguards. Even though I put his name in the electronic access system, he sort of disappeared. It's not the first time this has happened to a better customer. Obviously, it is a matter of giving his name together with Edda Budaházy, who recently organised a population political conference, and he may not be welcome to housekeeping, but it is completely irregular, especially since the reason for this is not given. In fact, they are misinformed and lying in this regard. [[Noise.]] The Parliamentary Guard itself has not been informed of why it should not enter. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] They've been referring to all kinds of system updates for hours.
u2014-11-20-60	Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-61	I'd like to ask Mr. President to take care of...
u2014-11-20-62	Thank you.
u2014-11-20-63	... sothatit doesn't have to be dealt with here at the Parliament meeting, and László Kövér should refrain from such small-time methods. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman President Novak. [[Novak Előd: You're welcome.]] I ask with respect that you bring this problem to the House Committee meeting. In general, there's nothing more I can do for you right now. I give the floor to independent Congressman László Varju.
u2014-11-20-65	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, Continuing yesterday's debate after the final thought, I would like to draw your attention to a few things here on the budget. But before I begin, allow me to make two comments. The first one, in any case, is what Mr Font, our fellow Member, said: this is an over-dramatic comment on poverty. I think this circle of thought deserves a sentence. In Hungary, when there are more than four million people living below the poverty threshold in practical and statistical terms, Hungary, when it has drifted among the poorest states in Europe in recent years as a result of your operation, I think it is impertinent to spit against people who meet in the streets of Budapest as well as in the smallest villages. I think that poverty in Hungary cannot be overdramatic in this sense, and you, of course, have an immeasurable responsibility, even if you say such sentences. The second thought would be to Mr Secretary of State Rétvári, even because you replied that the two-thirds answer was that it was the right thing to do. It's kind of like "just." [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Democrat can't say that!]] With all due respect, I suggest that you not be proud of the two thirds by which the power of state is expropriated in this sense and operate in this way after your fraud by amending the electoral law. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Votes of voters!]] This has nothing to do with democracy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Majority!]] You should work much differently than that, so I think it's unacceptable. [[László Kucsák: About the budget?]] And that's why the Democratic Coalition, after having delivered an opinion on their budget and an assessment of its framework, which we already started yesterday...? I have told you that what you are doing is nothing more than a austerity budget. The continuation, the organic continuation of what has happened in recent years, as we can call it the Varga, Matolcsy package, we can call it the Széll Kálmán plan, however, the outcome is that you are lost from many people and give the opportunity to some of the beneficiary circles, people or groups that really give them the opportunity to develop. Of course, you talk about family support and how it will be better for them, but how you can do that, while the figures clearly show that your social system expenditure will be reduced. But the worst disadvantage you have is to cut the education budget. So it is true that in 2014, we can safely say that we are living better today than we are living next year. This is the perspective you offer to people. And to give you a practical example of what's coming from your operation: from January 1st next year, every family can take account of the possibility of a social funeral as a result of your blessed activities and budget presentation. Because that's the consequence of everyone who thinks and doesn't have enough money can take down the loved ones who have passed away. And they can do all of this: dress them up. [[Dr. János Hargitai, shaking his head: Don't joke.]] And you can't shake your head, Congressman. You made this law while building stadiums, and you can't even bury people with dignity in Hungary! [[Mátyás Firtl: Not to scratch...]] [[13.00]] The result of this budget and the tax laws that you are submitting and accepting here is that a corrupt tax office will be forced to do your butcher's work and to collect more taxes under your leadership and management. It follows, of course, that, unlike the cosmetic tone, it is necessary to prepare for a sluggish economy and austerity. So you wouldn't be surprised if thousands and tens of thousands protested against your ideas. The Hungarian people have every reason to do so, and they speak out against your operation. So if you think about taking the Prime Minister's idea further, it really follows that we will walk from the happiest barracks to a less cheerful barracks, and we can exist accordingly. The point is that Hungary is in a lot of trouble as a result of your operation. In contrast to your sentences, families are not being helped with this budget, but rather are being deprived of the opportunity by citing the specific nature of the budget by significantly reducing the resources for education. As much as you say the opposite, you must realise that the unanimous opinion of both professional organisations and the democratic opposition is that this is the greatest sin you are committing right now. We believe that education is not for the state, it is not for the government, it is not your primary responsibility to actually resolve this; it is not for public education in Hungary, but for public education which is primarily for the students involved in education and for teachers. What we need is a future-based knowledge, not a situation where in November children lack textbooks, and educators copy a copy of a textbook that they can otherwise train, teach, or teach with your vocabulary and raise. You shouldn't have and shouldn't have developed such a system, which you know is collapsed and useless, not just the possibility of textbooking and textbooking itself, but the entire public education system on which you are building. In a democratic rule of law, you could not have done so. I am also saying this because your system neither proves nor gives you the opportunity to have an 18-year-old education obligation, and in four years of vocational training students can develop. You do not provide everyone with a chance-creating and world-neutral education, or even the opposite. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] they do, because the municipal schools are...
u2014-11-20-66	Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-67	... put her at a disadvantage in that sense. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-20-68	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-11-20-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very sorry that my colleague Gabriella Selmeczi is not here. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't you miss Bernadett Wind?]] I really can only join you to stop campaigning in Parliament with the tax relief of two children at the 2015 budget! Let me get this straight. It is not included in the 2015 budget, despite the continued promise of Mihály Varga and Antal Rogán during the campaign! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We're just talking about what's inside.]] They campaigned with it continuously, that they would help Hungarian families with HUF 50-55 billion. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: That's it!]] 350,000 families of two children have been deceived. It's not in the 2015 budget! The other one. There's a reason for that, because you have to build a stadium and not support families with children. They came up with this first-married discount, which, according to modest calculations, costs 3 billion forints to keep their mouths shut. The only thing they don't want to know is that it's exclusional and discriminatory again. Today, 42 percent of the born children are born in partnership. Be aware, fellow Members. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: They deserve the same!]] That these people are being distinguished! Plus, when we talk about marriage, 60 percent of marriages today end in divorce! Take note of it, and not exclude it, distinguish it. The other Member said that the family is the most important thing for Fidesz-KDNP. Then also realize that 36 percent of Hungarian children today live in extreme poverty. Thirty-six percent! We are talking about 700,000 Hungarian children! This budget you brought here, do you know what budget it is? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] It's a budget for poverty, brazenness and failure. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-70	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Originally, I wanted to comment on the sports chapter of the budget, but what I heard yesterday and today from the opposition makes me want to talk a little bit more about this issue. I can see that opposition contributions are almost exclusively driven by malice, hatred, envy and irresponsibleness. That's why they're acting this way, as we've seen in the previous two speakers. Although it would be difficult to beat the depth of my fellow Member Varju's comments, I think that cynicism, all that lying around, the unscrupulous big talk, the irresponsible thing that you are about the 2015 budget, speaks for itself. I therefore ask my fellow Members together to look into some chapters or some key labels about what happened between 2002 and 2010 or what has happened since 2010. Let's talk about the central budget balance. On 1 May 2004, Hungary became a member of the European Union, and from 2004 until 2010 under socialist-liberal governments, or, if you will, under the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai governments, the European Union's expectations of a lack of the country's budget were not met at all. And not only did it fail, but there was a time when he approached the two digits! What was then successfully falsified in 2006 in the election campaign, with the help of the supporters in Brussels, with the help of the bureaucrats in Brussels. When the transfer and transfer took place in 2010, it was clear that the deficit was at least 3 percent higher than the one in the paperwork. But let us look at the conditions under which this budget deficit could be maintained. Under conditions that practically sold the country out. There's nothing left in the country. [[István Tukacs: You're the only one left!]] They took the IMF money, listened to the World Bank's advice, and spent it every last penny until 2010. [[Dr. László Szakács: Are we talking about the 2015 budget?]] Then, if we look at what has happened since 2010, in 2010, the Prime Minister's second trip led to Brussels, where he wanted to ask for help to keep this budget deficit in check, after we had fulfilled the EU Presidency, but it was not possible to do so. That is when we had to, say, touch the system of special taxes, with which we managed to put the budget back in order, and we are now at a point where, for the fourth year, this government, with the powerful help of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, can keep the budget deficit below 3 per cent by preparing these types of budgets. [[He replaced the gullible Dezső in the notary seat with Loránt Hegedűs.]] It is now clear in the budget before us that we have a 2.4 percent deficit and that both the World Bank and the IMF's offices were closed a few years ago. So there's not even that kind of help against what you've been using. [[Zoltán Pride: But what did it cost?]] If you can call that help. We're also in a big campaign with the debt situation. In 2002 the government debt level was 56 per cent compared to GDP, which became 80.3 per cent by 2010. Brutal! This nominally meant that the country owes 14,000 billion. [[13.10]] So I don't even know how they dare to open their mouths, how dare they. [[An uproar from the ranks of the MSZP. ? István Tukacs with his hand shows: Thus, so you must open it!]] to criticise the budget which: [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It calculates a debt level of 75,4 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: You're not in the pub!]] But if I am not looking at the public debt, but at the country itself, which was also to be destroyed by debt, the one who is Gyurcsány's largest arms carrier is the one who is the local authorities, with extra tasks, with the withdrawal of funds, with all kinds of administrative burdens, and the municipalities owed 1200 billion forints! [[Zoltán Grimlock: You just took away all the wealth.]] This was to be consolidated, and this consolidation has taken place in the last two years. [[László Varju: Hódmezővásárhely, Debrecen!]] But if you look at what happened to the people you liked to chase into that currency-loan trap that's really hard to come out of, then I think you should be even more quiet. Yeah, and let's add that they're sitting here today, they're not here, but we're sitting with former left-wing politicians, ministers, who before opening the road to a foreign exchange loan trap, they've hired tens of millions as preferential housing loans, then. [[What are you talking about? How many houses did you buy?]] when they knew exactly that the preferential housing loan would cease from 1 March 2003. They took 20-30-40 million forints. [[Dezső gullible: For example, Kósa!]] Well, in the last four years, we have had to move forward in this area, and I will also say this to those who say that our government is extremely banker-friendly, right, critics say that, in addition to local government consolidation, we will return more than 900 billion forints to help foreign exchange lenders, such as 270 billion forints for final repayment, 25 billion forints for the exchange rate barrier and now forintling, creating fair banks and accounting; so we will take away from the banks and get people. And there's another very important item, right, everyone here is talking about transfers: the transaction fee costs the banks 105 billion as a result of the Act on ATM recruitment. So this total amount is 1300 billion forints, which this government has transferred from banks to people's pockets. And then we do not talk about the system of special taxes, because the third year special tax is already 600 billion in total, so it is nearly HUF 2000 billion that the banks are forced to contribute to the common burden in line with the measures and legislation of the government and parliament. Let us also highlight a few things about the tax system. VAT: the world's largest VAT fraud and VAT trick was committed by the Gyurcsány government. I'm talking about 2006, when they brought down the VAT for four months until the election, and then, as soon as we had the Stallum, as we had the new authorization, at some meeting in Balatonesdéd, the then Prime Minister spoke about it, then we were able to raise the VAT back to 25 percent at that moment. And in a faceless way? Do I have to say it? Those who now speak of food VAT raised the VAT from 12 percent to 25 percent from 1 September in that period; so those who have established it are the governments of Gyurcsány, Bajnai. I'm gonna say it again: [[László Varju intervenes.]] a fiscal policy, a level of public debt, a debt, a sale I've just told you about. But for example, the super gross, so tax on unearned money is also your great idea of super grossing up. [[Dr. László Szakács: Are we talking about the 2015 budget?]] And, if you look at, say, the keys, the 36 percent personal income tax, as opposed to the one-key 16 percent personal income tax that we've just applied, that seems a little high. The most important aspect of the government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, is the common burden on taxation. Dear Friends! March 15, 1848, point 12, point 6. Even then, people were aware, aware of the revolution and the citizens fighting freedom, that sharing a burden is one of the most important things in the country's life. Those who are otherwise in a better way, who take a much larger slice from the country's economy or from the country's financial part, should also contribute to our common burden. Does this include special taxes, bank special taxes, multi-taxes and certain products? tobacco, alcohol? which pay well for their inclusion in taxation. But it's not really a tax, but it does appear, and I think it's a reduction in our rent or our policy. So it's the big, sold-out service companies, isn't it? Are we talking about energy suppliers for the sake of simplicity? , who took more than 1000 billion, 1062 billion out of the country from 1995 to 2010, kept prices very high, and also retail prices; even when world market prices have fallen long ago, and this should be a protected market, the retail market, let's remember, everyone remember that in 2010, there was a cubic meter of gas, today 113. What are we talking about? [[Laszlo Varju: Say the same thing in three ways. Instead of giving it to people.]] We can say the same for electricity, and we can say the same for seven services in this area. And there is also a very important element of our tax policy that we need to build an economy, create a situation in which everyone in the country can pay taxes if possible. This is why the work-based economy must be created, which is why businesses need to be developed, which is why foreign investment should be managed in a way that creates jobs in the country. Listen to me. 3 million 600 thousand people worked in 2010, one of the lowest employment rates in Europe at the time. Today 4 million 200,000 are working [[Zoltán Grimlock: It was a crisis, don't you mind?]] And everyone pays taxes. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Does everyone really pay taxes?]] Half of the 3 million 600 thousand paid taxes in 2010. So that's how this tax system was converted. One more important thing is that the budget, they say, is the real purpose of the budget, or the budget is good, it is positive if it helps to raise the future, to give the child to his country, or to raise families with children. In our budget, family tax policy is precisely for this purpose. The 2015 budget sets out the four-year programme to help families with two children to double their family tax incentives by 2018-19, as the tax relief applied in 2014. And one more thing, before I speak about sport, in the fall of the former Czech Republic government, was extremely successful in the buffet of liberal witch kitchens, which here is believed to be corruption accusations, and this is often found here in the budget debate. Now, please, those who carried the money out of the Demszky era or the Gyurcsány-Bajna era from the BKV and the City Council in noky boxes, who thought it was a little small from the Ministry of Defence, and put the money in whiskey boxes, don't say anything. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The court has already found that this is a lie.]] Don't let those who left the situation here in Budapest with a debt of 78 billion in 2010 by BKV in addition to the nocical boxes. Now we are talking about the construction of the new metro line, metro line 4, metro line 3, the budget will provide 60 billion for the renovation, and the government will provide HUF 9 billion for the Budapest transport. So I think that in all respects I would do well to keep them quiet. And one more thing about corruption: perhaps your president is not here, but ask him if he is enjoying himself at the Hagyó villa. For when the soil under the feet of the deputy mayor began to be warm, it was him, József Tobias, who bought the fork from him and lives there today. [[Mr. President, what does this have to do with the budget?]] So talk to each other about corruption, about who played a role in corruption. Well, what I see is the key to this opposition behavior was a few years ago? Did I just mention that? in speech, in the autumn declaration [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Tell me about the Kósa villa!]] Or that this year's elections, all three of them, have been lost in some terrible way, and that the grapes are sour as they can be, they're trying to bomb us, they're trying to talk us apart. [[13.20]] Let me quote you from this speech. I think that the script of this whole thing that goes on outside Parliament or Parliament is also written by the same person who said in his speech, "We have obviously lied for the last year and a half." For a year and a half, we had to pretend we were steering, instead we lied in the morning, night and night. Please accept this, please, with all due respect. That's all I wanted to say about the budget in general. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] And if I have time, Mr President, I would also say that it will not be much more cheerful about sport, but I think that the outcome will be positive in the current budget and in the period ahead. Well, Honourable Parliament, I'd like to talk about the long-standing Csepel SC as the great loser of the regime change. In 1991, the whole property and movable property of the association was saved to a foundation and the association was abandoned. By the turn of the millennium, some of the valuable real estate had been stolen, and Csepel SC, together with its debt of one and a half billion, was broken down in 1999. The final blow was given to Csepel's sport in 2005, when, as a result of the decision of two socialist MPs and the then MSZP mayor and MSZP municipal majority, and the then Supreme Court of Justice, the remaining property? Did this mean the main sports camp, rowing and kayak canoeing? through the transfer of founder's rights to an offshore company. No renovations or investments have been made in these properties in the last 30 years, because the goal was to legasize, because it would have been cheaper to get the remaining property. And the painful consequence of this is that the sports life of Csepel to this day? Even though we've done a lot to change this over the past four years? vegetal [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yet I have been relieved! Here in Parliament, the list is easy!]] It's almost all about memories. By October this year, however, after many years of struggle, negotiations and acquiescence, we managed to reach agreement with the foundation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'm sure you're related, that's why.]] We managed to reach an agreement with the foundation that a significant part of this property would once again become public property owned by the municipality of Csepel. This means the wrestling hall and its surroundings in the central sports yard and the oarshop in Csepel. So I would like to emphasise once again that it is once again Community-owned, and in addition, together with this Community ownership, the municipality has also undertaken that in these settlements, for the longest period laid down by law, it is only possible to develop for sport purposes and can only be used for sports purposes, and this contract has also been concluded by the municipality with the associations. The situation of rowers will soon be fully settled, as the government has decided to build the international rowing and kayak canoe and sports centre as a ten billion-dollar state investment in northern Csepel; I would just like to say that this is also built for children. So let me tell you right here, sports facilities, aside from the fact that they are, by the way, large investments, and, let's say, such a sports facility has at least two thousand people working for years, so two thousand families can be supported from such an investment, it's always for the future, it's always gonna benefit the young learners, the children. By the way, as I experienced in 1972, when the spotlights were handed over for the first time in Csepel in the year of the Olympics, and from then on, it was possible to go to a game in the evening. However, the wrestling hall is in a catastrophic, almost useless condition, the parquet rotted, crumbled, the plaster muffled, the roof is soaked, the sports equipment is dangerous for life and accidents, everything is covered with mold, the smell of dust is constant, for years the room has not been heated, the dressing rooms and the windows are only what they are called in their name. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What does this have to do with the budget?]] There are many other circumstances that could be described as what has happened in the past, and why it is important that we be able to renovate these halls, these sports facilities. From this hall, we would like to create a culturally healthy hall that satisfies regional sports needs and gives rise to competitions, in which the children of Csepel, the students of Csepel and the competitors of Csepel are also XXI. Under centuries of conditions, they can train, prepare for competition and life. Dear Parliament, Am I going to draw attention to that fact again? I don't suppose we're in Csepel alone with this, by the way, but is this district a real vet horse, unfortunately? that, since the change of regime, no sporting investment, maintenance or development has taken place on the remaining properties of Csepel SC. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What did you do for four years?]] In fact, several hectares of sports facilities have now become a gas station, a shopping mall, a residential park, or an economic destination for the communist unions of former state corporations. The Csepelians know exactly all this, it's enough to name just a few of these sports properties. Was this the MHK orbit and shooting range, the Orion Street soccer field, the Post-Gallery, the Mahart and the Csepel Paper Factory sports facilities, the Tanning Material Grund, the Áfor? Or is it now known as MOL? handball courts. Technically, comrades, you can say that over the past few years, they have laid the sport of Csepel on two shoulders, and now we must stand up from here in some way and fight back with victory. Despite the success of the Olympics, Hungary is one of the four least mobile nations in the Union, only 38 percent of Hungarian youth regularly play sports. Every country will be like its youth, so it is vital to make our young people love sport. Is it a goal to become a sports-loving nation successfully a sports-loving nation? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said recently at the handover of a sports hall in Győr. Well, we Csepelians want to join this sport program, and we want to make an active contribution to this great idea in any way. I thank the Honourable Parliament for hearing me out. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-72	Thank you very much, Mr Szilárd Németh. István Tukacs, Member of the MSZP, is next.
u2014-11-20-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to a thorough study of budgets, I sometimes look at where election results are made, because I am interested. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, I did not really want to understand why you failed the elections in Csepel. I get it now. [[István Szilárd Németh: Ask Gyula Horváth if the elections have failed. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] On the subject of the budget, I would like to say, my fellow Members, that many have already spoken to the education chapter, and I would also like to devote a few words to that. I'd like to quote someone who told me years ago that the child should learn to build a wall and not deal with the Mohácsi chisel. On whose lips this very interesting sentence has fallen, László Parragh, who is expanding beyond his function, seems to be capable of failing or strengthening government concepts in the case of higher education and ordering cases other than government. If it were just Mr Parragh's private problem to think of such things, I would not have wasted much of a word on this. The problem, however, is that this is not just his private problem, this kind of philosophy has become the government's. The child should learn to build a wall, not to deal with the Mohácsi engraving. Because it is possible to defy the production of mortar by knowing whether we all know our historical past. Ladies and gentlemen, At the time when the government minimized the opportunities of students in the field of public knowledge, it also said that it had a sense of value for those who go to such schools; it had a devastating judgment on it, I would add. For some reason, you insist that dealing with an uneducated and uneducated person is easier. This is a very distorted political perspective, yet I can't think of anything else, because what other reason would there be for us to say that anyone who studies a profession should not actually learn public knowledge. What other reason would there be to hunt information technology out of high school education? There can only be such a reason that it is thought that from a political point of view it is easier to treat an uneducated person who cannot represent himself. We think this in a different way, and I think that this kind of wall should be laid versus Mohácsi emergency case should be forgotten in the next period, because everyone is talking about qualifications and good qualifications. It's just a special charm in the history of the days to read the news that in Romanian public education, children get free tablets. [[13.30]] How interesting? So far, it seemed like we were just looking west, if we wanted to see good examples, now it turns out that we should also look east, because? Contrary to our country? Somehow they think differently about the 21st century. It's from the hundredth century. And if I add the idea that it is necessary to reduce the number of high school seats and the number of high school students because the government imagines this educational system as a vessel that if we cover it above it, it goes out, in Hungarian, who doesn't get to secondary and then higher education, it goes to study the profession, I think it doesn't understand what XXI is all about. In fact, from an educational point of view. When Mr Retvári, who has been working with outstanding hyperactivity here today, says that, but these funds have increased in the current budget, I would like to tell you that the money in higher education has decreased by 60 billion in recent years. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Wrong! That's a big mistake.]] It's down by 60 billion. From 180 to 120 billion. And you're not increasing the money for this education, you're preserving this condition. It's being preserved, and it's being distorted. Because not only are they thinking about how to turn this whole higher education system towards quality learning, but they are also distorting it with a tax law, for example, because they are smuggling the Tao system already known from sport into support for higher education, saying that this is a good opportunity to support innovative ideas. I just think that a higher education institution where, because of its human nature, the greatest innovation is that one who writes a monograph on the illustrious writer of his county will not get a penny of it. I wouldn't even talk about the fact that in sports, this Tao case wore the marks of maximum control, in Hungarian: not the one who was worthy of it, but the one who had to receive it. The problem, however, is that this educational issue is linked to an even greater social problem, which is emigration. Because, of course, it is possible to talk about how to support marriage with symbolic and symbolic amounts, the only problem is that this will not be valid in London, my honourable fellow Members. Because children or young people who choose to study outside, to work outside, will not use this much, because they will not stay home. As far as health is concerned, I told you during the day what a problem this is, because hundreds of thousands of people working or studying outside do not necessarily think about returning home, and you do not necessarily think about calling them home. Because everything that drives these young people out of education, health care or other areas of life is an indication that it is not important for them to return. I would also like to mention a case that appears on the revenue side in relation to taxation. I would like to talk about this because while many people were fiercely defending this budget, which does not contain restrictions, you have made a disguised VAT increase, which is based on food health. Food prices will be increased by the amount that will impose an additional tax on this. So the problem here is not only that Europe and the world's largest VAT are being levied on people, but also that this is being further developed. [[György Balla: That's not true!]] They're milking it by saying the reason they're saying... isn't that right? You need to take a look at the budget numbers. [[György Balla's intervention.]] It's not for that purpose; it's trying to fill a budget hole. Therefore, I think that it is possible, of course, to talk about the scope of the budget and where it results; I was also happy to listen to the chapter on the implementation of the sentence, because I am very pleased if it is one of the biggest problems with the budget; but the problem is that it does not reduce the burden, but increases it, moreover? And I'd like to close my story with this? with a very specific vision that we've experienced several times. You like to favour those who have better status, better earnings and do little to those who are not. All the budgets and government measures we've seen and experienced lately suggest this. Because it is very good to help some families who we believe to be our political base, and it is very little good to help those who really need it. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity, thank you for the floor.
u2014-11-20-74	Thank you very much, Congressman Tukacs. László Szászfalvi, Christian Democratic People's Party, will be the next speaker.
u2014-11-20-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, A state, a country's central budget, is extremely important in two respects, together with a country's everyday life, its functionality and its continuing vision. Firstly, the Finance Act shows how a government implements its commitments, what is important and not important to it in the changing international, economic and social circumstances, which are the government's priorities, what it focuses on, which social processes it wants to strengthen and support. Dear House, The other pillar of the budget law is about people, their lives, the possibilities of their living conditions, their improvement, their growth. Of course, it is not possible to create Canaan from one moment to the next, even if some opposition parties remember that there were no poor people, poor families, starving children in Hungary at the time of their government, and they remember that during their administration the Canaan itself was realized here in Hungary, or that if it were in their hands, it would be Canaan overnight in Hungary. I think we can be sober, but we can definitely have one goal: going forward year after year in a predictable way. Step by step, we need to make life conditions easier for Hungarian people and Hungarian families in a practical and traceable way. In other words, the budget is about how much more money is left than the family, and it's also about how much more money is left than the people. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian people, Hungary, have proved in the last four years that if we work together, we can rebuild our country. By 2010, the country that has been bankrupt by the socialists has started in recent years on the road to ascension. Even the opposition cannot deny that, despite the constantly raging economic crisis, in recent years the state, the government, has managed responsible farming, that we have put the state's finances in order, that financial discipline has strengthened, that we have kept and maintained a budget deficit of less than 3 per cent, and that this has allowed Hungary to be released from the excessive deficit procedure in the European Union. Neither can our political opponents deny that economic growth has started in parallel with these measures, so we are now standing in the EU in a beating position in terms of GDP growth. And here I stand for one sentence: the opposition accusations that suggest, just as a LMP speech said on Monday, that stadium constructions started artificial economic growth are ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen, Can you imagine that with a few ten billion forints in a country on the verge of bankruptcy, a huge economic turnaround can be achieved? Then why didn't our ancestors do that? No, it has been a coherent economic policy that has lasted for years, needs priorities, strategy and more rational use of financial and economic resources, concentration of EU funds, action plan for the protection of jobs, family tax system and the launch of public investment in all areas, health, social and educational, infrastructure development and, yes, sport. But progress has also been made in the area of support for family businesses and SMEs; the investment of hundreds of billions of forints has resulted in economic growth, significant growth and preservation of jobs, a significant reduction in unemployment, and a reduction in inflation to a minimum. [[13.40]] Dear fellow Members, The fact that this is not enough for the opposition during the crisis [[Zoltán Grimlock: What crisis?]] and discuss the budget numbers and details, of course. But the caravan is moving in the right direction, and we must continue to strengthen it year after year, even under difficult and uncertain external conditions. Dear Parliament, The 2015 budget preserves the results of governance in recent years. Thus, thanks to family tax incentives, HUF 240 billion will remain in Hungarian families next year. We also protect the reduction of the rent, which has reduced household costs by 20-25 percent. On average, a Hungarian household can save 150 thousand forints a year. In addition, thanks to our joint efforts, banks using unfair procedures have to pay back more than HUF 1000 billion that has been taken away from the population, residents and families. Therefore, the authentic ones can either obtain money in the following year, or if they still have a live loan contract, they can reduce their capital or repayments by 25-30 percent. As a result, the 2015 budget will also be a budget for bank accountability, and as a result of accounting and other government measures, parallel measures, more money will remain in the family, thereby increasing household savings and consumption, which will stimulate economic growth and have a positive impact on budget revenue. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On this basis, the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this draft budget supporting Hungarian families, and we support it because the family is the first in this proposal. The government's priorities include support for families and the promotion of children. The aim is to create a support system in Hungary that adapts to the different lives and careers of different family situations, thus also serving the birth of the planned children. For this reason, the family tax system based on the appreciation of work and child rearing will continue next year, so wages will still be subject to one of the lowest rates in Europe in 2015 and child rearing will be supported by the government with a family tax reduction. Small - income families with multiple children will remain practically in their pockets next year, and their gross salary will remain. From 2016, as we have heard, in four years we will gradually increase the benefit of parents who have two children from HUF 10 thousand per child to HUF 20,000. The Gyed extra will continue in 2015 because it has proved that it encourages childbearing and the employment of mothers with small children. The family home-building discount will start in 2015. From 1 July to HUF 700 000, support is available, not only for the purchase, construction of a new apartment, but also for the purchase of a used flat and the expansion of an existing apartment. I would like to point out that this was a big problem, especially in rural areas, and in an old, big problem, we started on the way to a solution, and I think that this is finally a breakthrough in the purchase of used dwellings, or it could be a significant step forward. We also support the budget because job creation is at the heart of it. As has already been said several times, we continue to state the basic principle of work instead of aid. This means that everyone who can and wants can work, and that the budgetary resources must be transferred, reorganised and adapted accordingly to real life. Accordingly, we would like to make public employment available to more people in 2015. Government programmes to stimulate employment, such as the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs, will also continue. We hear about this very often with contempt, but, honourable opposition colleagues, this has been the preservation and retention of around 800 thousand Hungarian jobs in the past period, which I think is not negligible in view of the crisis of the long years and the external difficulties. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the draft budget because pensions will still be valuable next year. By the time of the 2010 change of government, the pension system was on the verge of collapse because previous governments put people's pension savings at risk [[Lajos Korózs: Stop talking nonsense, Laci! You stole 3000 billion forints!]] deposits have been transferred to private banks outside the EU [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the lack of a pension fund has grown. [[Happy Stephen to Lajos Korózs: You are sick! Did you take the pill today?]] These are concrete facts, my dear fellow Member. The government's primary objective is to preserve the stability of the pension system and the value of pensions, as it has done in recent years, in the following year. Therefore, the amount of old-age benefits will continue to be maintained in 2015, pensions will increase by 1.8 percent with inflation. The burden of older people is also mitigated by the reduction of costs, the results of which the government would also like to maintain by launching the national utility service system. We will continue with the. Women's 40, which is about the appreciation of women. The programme allows women with 40 years of work to retire. So far, 135,000 have taken advantage of this opportunity. Many people have asked me over the last few weeks, months, whether we will continue to hold on to this opportunity. I say it here, and we confirm here that the government and the majority in the government will continue to support this opportunity and keep it in the next period. In short, let me talk about two more areas. In the following year, Hungarian NGOs will receive 2 billion HUF more funding. The budget for the National Cooperation Fund will increase from 3.4 billion to 5.4 billion. I think that this is also a significant and very important step. Finally, a few sentences on the budgetary situation in relation to national policy: in the following year, the fiscal margin for national policy will increase by HUF 2 billion 391 million. This means that so much more very important national policy programmes and projects can be implemented. I think that this will also be an extremely important step forward. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of all these arguments and facts, the draft budget bill presented and tabled by the Government is supported by the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party and I call on my fellow Members to support it. You have honoured my contribution with your attention, and I thank you for this respectable attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Szászfalvi. The next announced speaker was Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik.
u2014-11-20-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The short timeframe, which I have been given, has to go through a lot of topics, and I want to address a lot of important issues. First of all, I have to say that the transparency of the budget has been made very difficult by the fact that only this year's figures are included, and, as the laws would otherwise require, neither the plans for this year's budget, nor the figures that could be called the fact number last year. This is difficult and makes it difficult to understand because, in some cases, there is nothing to compare numbers that appear and, moreover, do not comply with the legislation in force. But with effective work, you can find something, but there are not always positive changes in numbers. Firstly, I would like to point out the trend that, unfortunately, government bureaucracy has increased greatly in recent years, and that these trends will continue next year, with the exception of a few ministries. [[13.50]] This is also strange because in parallel, you have always formulated a reduction in bureaucracy. The largest example of this is the number of prime ministers, which was 93 in 2010 and 740 in 2014. We feel that this is a significant expansion, since 93 people were able to provide it at the time. There are very few reasons behind the increase in numbers and many of the increase in numbers. I'd like to get to justice. I've had a few words before about this area. We are pleased that the courts will receive an extra HUF 1 billion in total, but less so that in the case of personal benefits, this means a minus HUF 1 billion. If we add that the much smaller public prosecutor's office receives an additional HUF 2 billion, then this is thoughtful, all the more so, because the prosecutor's office has always received frameworks that go beyond the courts in recent years, and the Parliament has increasingly supported the prosecution's operation, which, in my opinion, has not been properly appreciated by the prosecutor's office. Their role in accountability also highlights the fact that, in our view, this organisation is not functioning properly, precisely because of what my fellow Members have said that even the MSZP-SZDSZ governments should have been accounted for. This did not happen, and this is mainly due to the failure of the prosecutor's office, with many other factors. I very much hope that the next budget will include the creation of a public enforcement system. This, of course, would not mean extra expenditure, because it could generate serious revenues. We very much hope that we will get to the fact that this may be the case next year. I've already said a few words about the Prime Minister's staff management. However, if we were talking about national policy and my fellow Member, László Szászfalvi, told us how much more money is going to come here, I would like to point out that there is a line under the Prime Minister's Office that relates to the reconstruction programme across the border. I'd say 8 million forints is a small sum. Could this have been supported by a much larger amount of money, all the more so? And is that true for the whole budget? , because in some cases there are several tens of billions of opaque items that are not explained exactly what they will be spent on, but in other cases they can name a few million HUF items separately. That doesn't seem proportionate at all. At the Prime Minister's Office we can find a range of payments of HUF 61 billion under a provision. That sounds interesting. By the way, this is also true of the Ministry of Defence's expenditures, where we can only learn that the Ministry may spend HUF 73.5 billion or another HUF 64 billion for other defence organizations; this means the General Defence Command and its subordinate organizations. We really wanted these to be explained in detail, because this is completely a blank check. And although the military spending is slightly increasing, is this still very far from 2 percent of GDP? I'm afraid it's 1 percent? what NATO expects of Hungary. For example, in the case of Greece, which is only slightly larger than Hungary, this is almost eight times the Hungarian expenditure. But the Hungarian Football Academy Foundation will receive HUF 50 million in the budget of the Ministry of Defence again this year. It is very strange why the military should support this and why they thought that this should be on a separate line. It's certainly thought-provoking. Turning to the Ministry of the Interior, the administration of the Ministry of Interior is growing from 4.1 billion to 8.5 billion, in a way which is not very substantiated to me. The reason for this is, Mr. Secretary, if you think you can explain it. But personal expenses are also increasing, plus 5 billion forints for the real estate expenses. I don't know what the new circumstance is that the Ministry would have to spend so much money on its own administration. Secretary of State Kontrat has said that the personal benefits of the prison are increasing. We are very happy about this, and we have been saying this for years. I see an extra 1 billion forints planned for this, which doesn't make me see the 30 percent increase that would mean paying the Bv guards how it's gonna come out of this. Or if this 30 percent came out of the 1 billion, this would have had to be done a long time ago, because only the Prime Minister's protocol will have more and the advisors will have more than one. I'm the one who senses some uncertainty in the numbers here. In the case of voluntary fire brigades, HUF 300 million is still considered to be small. Is it my favorite sentence in the asylum section? Are we gonna talk about this here on Jobbik? in which it is stated that the aim is to increase the level of care. In other areas, such as education or the social field, we would prefer to see this clause. We do not want to see a clear aim of increasing the level of care, especially in the area of asylum. The aim would be to encourage as few refugees as possible to arrive in Hungary, and not to encourage them to come to us with all the means necessary to create numerous public safety problems. In the end, I would also like to take a few more thoughts on EU affairs. There's a lot of talk about how much money comes into the country. Although do we know whether these money disappears through corruption or, in many cases, pointless investments? Especially over the past few years for pointless investments? they have been spent, although we have heard vows that this will not be the case in the future, but let us mention the amounts that come out of all our money, which are in all our pockets and are included in the budget. There is once a VAT-based contribution with HUF 37.5 billion, there is a gross national income-based contribution with HUF 237.5 billion, and a so-called particularly exciting UK correction with HUF 20 billion? So we support the British, too? , which means that nearly HUF 300 million leaves for the European Union at the beginning of each year. On the other hand, is what we're getting through pretty complicated orbits? In the first place, without drawing the entire amount, and what gets there in a very questionable way? can be used in the country. On the other hand, as I said, 300 billion forints as they are, and we are assigning all our taxes to the European Union. That's something we need to talk about. On the basis of these reservations, which could still be classified for a long time, and in particular because, as I said, an opinion on the budget cannot be drawn up in sufficient depth, it is precisely because in some cases there is no detail that would be expected, and in other cases, items that appear to be so-called bagatells and could be entrusted to the ministry in question, on this basis it is difficult to give this budget a supportive vote. Although some progress can, of course, be praised in it, but in the areas I have listed, we do not consider that this budget can properly fulfil the objectives that you are declaring to Parliament in a loud voice. And then we didn't even change the question of foreign exchange lenders, but we'll talk about it later if you wait for it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-78	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker was Mr János Pócs, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-79	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The first budget of the new Parliament is favourable from an agricultural point of view, as in previous years. Overall, in both the agricultural and rural development sectors, more resources will be allocated to the new budget than in previous years. As of this year, it is worth mentioning specifically the two categories, agriculture and rural development, as the majority of the funding and resources coming from the European Union are already in the Prime Minister's Office by restructuring the ministries. The transfer is important, in my view, because the objective of using aid amounts effectively and as much as possible for economic recovery, development and job creation can indeed be achieved. This is a crucial objective, since the successful negotiations will result in a total of more than 34 billion euros coming to Hungary in the next EU grant cycle, from 2014 to 2020, i.e. some 12 000 billion forints of EU funds. [[14.00]] We have never been able to achieve such favourable conditions before and who knows what further opportunities our EU membership will offer in seven years' time. We need to make good use of this opportunity. As in the previous period, a significant part of this record-level support will arrive in agriculture. We can spend more than HUF 1200 billion on rural development over the next seven years. The government's explicit goal is to devote at least 60% of development investment aid to economic development and job creation. This intention can be seen in the EU support chapter of the entire 2015 budget and is also reflected in the objectives of agriculture and rural development. In addition to nearly HUF 390 billion of EU funding, which arrives in agriculture in 2015 without a domestic share, it is not included in the budget lines, an additional HUF 303,4 billion is shown in the budget of the rural development sector in 2015. In any case, the part of the support programmes is guaranteed, thanks to the current good economic situation. Our goal is to draw 100% of the aid. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It will certainly be possible. After all, the Prime Minister's Office has already stated on several occasions that a simpler, so-called user-friendly procedure has been started. In the past, the applicant farmers were in a particularly difficult situation, since the sources of the previous support cycle were only available through an extremely complex, inflexible, sanction-oriented system developed by the then government. It took a long time for the actors in the sector to learn to cooperate with the Office for Agriculture and Rural Development in fulfilling the development and conditions of the application. But there have also been many times when they were in an impossible situation in relation to a rigid requirement that has been thrown away from real life. This situation is expected to improve, and I think it will facilitate the work of not only farmers but also MVH. In any case, we are looking forward to the details of the new procedure. Despite the fact that the EU budget cycle lasts from 2014 to 2020, due to the delay in the entry into force of EU regulations laying down the framework for the common agricultural policy, the rules for the next phase of the CAP will only enter into force one year late, following this transitional year, from 2015 when producers can first apply for aid under the new rules in the framework of the single application. In the new scheme, the basic payment scheme under the current area aid principle can be continued until the end of 2020. In this system, degressivity will be the new thing. But this is only for farmers in more than 1,200 hectares. As a result of degression, the remaining amounts will appear among rural development resources and will be used mainly to support livestock production and labour-intensive sectors. Support for greening, climate and environmental agricultural practices, to which Member States should devote 30% of their annual financial envelope, is a new element. The measures for greening will be crop diversification, permanent grassland maintenance and the designation of ecological target areas. There will also be a strong emphasis on the support of young farmers, which is intended to promote the generational shift of farmers. The level of voluntary coupled support, the current 3.5 per cent of the direct EU support framework, will increase to 13 per cent. Within this framework, the rice, sheep, dairy cattle, suckler cows, fattened bulls, sugar beets and fruit and vegetables sectors have access to sources dependent on the level of production. In addition, after 2015, it will also be possible to provide producers with an additional 2% of our national framework in the form of coupled support. This 2 percent will be distributed between grain and fibre protein crops. Hungary's aim is to make full use of the framework primarily to support work intensive sectors. The construction of simplified support for small farms will be a new option. Support under this item replaces all direct payments and exempts producers from the greening requirement. A maximum of 10 per cent of the national support framework can be used for this lump sum form. The aid within the scheme is calculated by looking at the amount of aid it would be eligible for under the basic payment scheme in the year of departure. For farmers who would be eligible for less than EUR 500 in the normal system, the aid will be rounded up to EUR 500 and the farmer will receive between EUR 500 and EUR 1250 corresponding to the aid in the normal system. Ladies and gentlemen, The priorities of the rural development programme 2014-2020 are: to transfer knowledge, to promote innovation in agriculture, forestry and rural areas; to enhance the viability and competitiveness of farms in all types of agricultural production, for all regions; to promote innovative agricultural technologies and sustainable forest management; and to organise food chains, including the processing and marketing of agricultural products, animal welfare risk management, to move in the agricultural area; to restore, preserve and improve the state of agricultural and forestry ecosystems; and to promote resources effectively, to support resilience to the effects of low-carbon and climate change, to move towards the economy, to promote social inclusion, to reduce poverty and to support economic development in rural areas. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér.]] Ladies and gentlemen, For the launch of programmes under these priorities, HUF 60 billion is available in budget appropriations. During the transitional period, the funding of the New Hungary Rural Development Programme will amount to more than HUF 239 billion in 2015 appropriations. Among the objectives of the programme is the creation of a labour-oriented economy, the strengthening of the rural economy and the increase in rural agricultural employment. These goals will be achieved by the government through the development of local small and medium-sized farmers and processing plants, as well as by supporting developments and investments that enable Hungarian farmers to supply the market with high-quality food. Furthermore, the aim is to shorten the supply chain between the producer and the consumer. Accordingly, the programme aims to promote and maintain activities to facilitate the direct, safe and economical marketing of food produced and produced there. On axis I of the programme, most payments to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors are expected to be made for livestock production and for the value-added of agricultural products. An important objective is to support young farmers, to clearly create jobs and to develop labour-intensive sectors. So this is the target area for subsidies. The second, environmental and rural development axis provides support for farmers in areas with favourable conditions. But here, too, the strengthening of the livestock sector through animal welfare aid has a significant role to play. [[14.10]] The third group of measures? improving quality of life in rural areas, encouraging diversification? Its objectives include strengthening micro-enterprises in both the field of physical infrastructure and human resources, and supporting local cooperation networks. Annex IV is amended as follows: Axis 1 is the area of well-established LEADER programmes, where support for locally developed development goals will be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, New Hungary's rural development programme will require the opening in 2015 of new subsidy applications to support consultancy services as well as individual training fees, which can contribute to the more efficient work of the sector's stakeholders. In addition to the new Hungary rural development programme, it is worth mentioning the fisheries operational programme, which supports the objectives of domestic fisheries management by more than HUF 3 billion in the budget. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It can therefore be seen that the 2015 budget has managed to ensure the conditions necessary for the use of subsidies to strengthen agriculture and the Hungarian countryside as effectively as possible. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-80	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The May Other Politics cannot stress that strengthening and renewing education is one of our most important objectives. At both individual and social levels, the educational system gives rise, the possibility of reaching from one to two. Only countries with strong and modern education can be truly successful. Only countries with strong and modern education have the opportunity to make real progress. Social and economic competitiveness and sustainable development are at the heart of all elements XXI. 100th century education policy. CHAPTER XXI It is characterised by the fact that all members of society are seeking high quality training and education. They're not giving up on anyone. They compensate for the disadvantages from home and do not push those who are a little different from the majority, who are a little different from the average. They don't label people with a lot of personal attention, they make the most of everyone. They help disadvantaged people in particular. CHAPTER XXI 1st century education systems provide the basis for knowledge-based societies and knowledge economies. In a knowledge-based society, everyone can move forward depending on their skills and diligence. It can be anything, it does not prevent family situation, municipal disadvantage or educational level differences. LMP would like such an educational system in Hungary. CHAPTER XXI Education systems of the century are characterised by a modern pedagogical approach, the inclusion of technological and IT novelties in education and high funding. Competitive education systems are expensive. Strengthening and renewing education systems is the key to sustainable development or the recovery from the economic crisis. Let us turn to the budget proposal before us. How much are we spending on education today, and how much is the government planning to turn on it next year? Firstly, let us start from what has marked educational spending in recent years in a European comparison. Ten years ago, Hungary had no reason to be ashamed of the European average in terms of public education. Of course, compared to the Scandinavian states leading in their education policy, we have always had a significant disadvantage. From the mid-2000s, however, during socialist-liberal governments, the withdrawal started, resulting in the funding of Hungarian education falling below the European average by 2010. Since then, this situation has deteriorated further. The negative process accelerated as a result of Fidesz-KDNP's 100 billion-dollar austerity policy, only 250 billion forints were withdrawn from education in the last government cycle. However, most Member States of the European Union quickly increased their education expenditure after the global crisis started, so they increased their spending despite the crisis, not only looking for immediate solutions, they knew that the only way out of the crisis in the medium term was to spend on education. Hungary's governments represented and represented a completely opposite view, it seems that they are only qualified for austerity and not for construction. Education is also just one of the welfare areas from which there is still something to be taken away from, so that the price of the wrong economic policy can be paid. Looking at the budget expenditure, we spend 9-10 forints out of every 100 forints on education. Less than a tenth of 100 forints go to this extremely important goal. What happens next year? Will education receive at least the withdrawal of recent years? Unfortunately, we can see that's not what's happening. The draft budget for next year essentially leaves the significant withdrawal of previous years unchanged. This HUF 200-250 billion is still missing from the operation and maintenance of the education system. There are still 200 billion forints missing from public education and 50 billion forints from higher education. They take money away from schools and universities as well as colleges and they don't give it back, but by replacing them, we would only return to the 2010 level, which is still very close to the desired level of education funding. Even though the government says that we are spending more on education next year, most of the extra expenditure on education is actually coming from the next part of the teacher's wage increase. The reason for this is that the government, in breach of its original promise, will provide only this increase in four years, which would have been issued in one sum, one year, each year giving more details. But let's add that the salary increase for teachers' workers will continue to be cancelled next year. They haven't received a raise since 2008. In the seventh year, their wages have not changed or even decreased in the context of cafeteria withdrawals. According to LMP, this is a very serious deficiency. Based on the comparable table in the draft budget, it is clear from all the budgets spent on education that the reduction of HUF 1560 billion to HUF 21 billion next year, the mid-term year, the current year and the year of 1547 billion, compared to the EUR 1581 billion last year. So the very strong decline compared to two years ago is now being brought back a little bit, but even compared to two years ago, a significant decline of 21 billion, i.e. the shrinking of GDP, is also increasing. Even though the government thinks there's gonna be bigger splits, it's gonna give you a smaller slice of education than it is right now. Similarly, the real value of education spending continues: what we spend next year on education is worth less than this year. Let's move on: despite spending HUF 7 billion more from the budget to operate higher education, this is a small replacement compared to the previously abstract HUF 50 billion. Higher education institutions will continue to dance on the brink of their functioning, and so-called structural change will not help. In addition, the government does not want to spend any more on higher education; in the new higher education strategy, it is said round pretzels. We need to be satisfied with what is currently being done in this area. According to the LMP, this is not enough to compensate for existing differences, but does not guarantee the safe functioning of the institutions either. Innovation and R &amp; D are also priority areas. As a whole, we are not spending more on this than we have already, even though Hungarian spending is far below the European average. To sum up, the education budget for next year, if we do not change it, will put the funding of education systems on a persistently low path. We will move further away from the structure of the knowledge-based society and continue to draw closer to the vision of the work-based society in Orbán. In fact, this is the real Eastern opening policy, as the withdrawal of funds from education is accompanied by numerous missed policy steps. [[14.20]] Reducing the age of compulsory education, reducing vocational training, reducing the teaching of public knowledge, introducing a basic curriculum and low-quality textbooks; convulsive nationalisation, centralisation, half of high schools, narrowing the doors of higher education. After all, we have no idea what Viktor Orbán was thinking when he said that we are building the best school system in Europe. The sad thing is, without more money, there is no quality, competitiveness, success. It wouldn't even be if we hadn't taken the measures to reduce the knowledge we've just mentioned. But what do you suggest on May Other in Politics? In short, a 180-degree shift in education policy, both in terms of funding and policy action. We do not see the future of Hungarian education in reduction, withdrawal and termination. Let us start with the funds: according to the LMP, funding for the entire education sector should be increased by one and a half to two times in the medium term. This means that we want to spend 15-20 forints out of every 100 HUF budget for education. This is the only way to renew Hungary and bring it to a sustainable development path, to strengthen our education system. This is how real jobs are created, economic development and competitiveness are improved. History and present times do not know an example that a country has been or has been successful in building a work-based society. The most diverse societies and cultures around the world have succeeded by strengthening their education system and their knowledge-based economy. Just think of the Scandinavian welfare states, who have decided for less than half a century that if they break or break, they will devote resources to education, because it can bring a huge breakthrough to a society within a generation. Think of the small tigers in the Far East, or think of the example of India or China, who are already invading their knowledge, because this is the only way to ensure their long-term development. The trend, apart from some countries in Central Asia, is that they are spending more and more on education everywhere. But what is LMP talking about when you spend at least one and a half times more on education than you do now? What would we spend these resources on? The first and most important step in public education is that LMP would return HUF 200 billion from the operation and maintenance of the school system over the past four years. The teacher's wage increase is practically the only additional source, as I indicated earlier. The LMP would fix the teacher career model, and it would not miss out on staff directly assisting teachers in raising wages. Without them, there is no quality education, no education. The LMP would provide schools with conditions to provide genuinely colourful and attractive programmes for public daycare participants. This requires additional resources, which the schools cannot provide on their own basis, based on the experience of the past period. According to the LMP, compensation for social disadvantages is of paramount importance. To this end, we would extend early development services to the whole country, including by institutionalising existing successful practices. Let's just think about the safe start of children's homes, if you like. It's their policy not to give up on anyone. This includes the fact that LMP would build a development and training network in disadvantaged areas. We'd like to give a serious allowance to educators in disadvantaged small areas. We would create priority areas for education, and it would be necessary to develop action plans that provide for concrete measures to improve the education system in the most disadvantaged small regions. The LMP would launch the National Forest School programme for environmental education, which was also a previous proposal, which requires state resources. Quality vocational training also costs money. The LMP would restore four years of training and strengthen theoretical training. We want quality vocational training that opens the way for higher education, adult education or even higher education. The LMP believes that those who do not continue to learn will also receive the skills to be retrained at any time if the labour market requires them to do so. As opposed to the vision of a work-based society in Orbán, it would not train skilled workers who can be quickly replaced, deprived of their workers' rights, but young people who are inventing themselves in all areas of life. This is linked to the launch of a specific language education and examination programme for VET participants. Our proposals for higher education are an increase in resources, because we see that the strategy renounces the expansion of resources. As a zero step, we believe that the current level of high-school seats should be maintained, since reducing these high-school seats would significantly reduce the soaking base of higher education, thus leading to a qualitative deterioration in the volume reduction. As I said, we would widen the doors to higher education in line with the EU 2020 strategy, which we follow, and we consider four out of the ten graduates to be the ideal goal, follow and approach. We value rural higher education institutions very much, especially here, highlighting social sciences training, because they play a very important role in local intellectuals and are decisive for this. The stimulation of the local economy and the development of rural higher education are linked, giving young people the prospect of not moving away from home because of the lack of opportunities. From this point of view, the new higher education strategy is at least hopeful, as it makes some kind of higher education service available in all regions. However, this requires the involvement of new resources. The wage development of higher education workers is absolutely necessary in order to be competitive with the market sector, not to have an impact on the market, which also reduces the quality of higher education. It is a fundamental feature of the knowledge economy that it is capable of constant renewal. This is the most important thing for the LMP, and we consider it important for it to be included in the budget. Thank you for the floor, thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek and Zoltán Grimlock applaud.]]
u2014-11-20-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government.
u2014-11-20-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to respond to some of your suggestions about education and education here, if you will. Although, if we have listened, we have heard a lot of wisdom in the speech that is worth heeding, such as the need to draw up a plan of action that envisages measures. We say that, for example, we can agree fully. [[Zoltán Gőgös: You're not fair, Mr. Secretary.]] It was a little confusian for me, Mr. Congressman, one of his sentences. On the one hand, he spoke of China as a very fine example of education that needs to be followed, and on the other hand he said that Western patterns should be followed. Are you saying that the downswing of the educational field will continue? I would argue with all of that, wouldn't I? And then he says that it's true that there will be more resources in universities, though, it's true that there will be more resources in education, although there is more resources in the wages of teachers, but the whole education system is going downhill. You also say that it is not possible to ignore in terms of higher education that a Structural Change Fund has been established, and that next year, as it is this year, it has also been given to higher education institutions, who have undertaken to make a transformation that will help them to issue graduates who do need it. After all, we agree that he should have as many graduates as possible, but that he should have a degree that he needs. In our strategy, too, community colleges are perhaps the best example, which is one of your ideas, I think, a response and direction, when local entrepreneurs on the ground create the possibility of financing and financing the labour force that is needed, teachers from another university and from another place on the spot give the higher education that local entrepreneurs, the local community, need. Returning to the Structure Change Fund, the HUF 9.1 billion is very high, which gives every university the opportunity to make some kind of transformation compared to its obsolete approach to a more modern, more adaptable training, structure or arrangement at the university, which is why we know that all savings cost money, all changes cost money, and that is why there is a separate basis for this. And what you have said, which has been said many times yesterday, is how much less or more access to knowledge is possible: honourable Member, did the previous governments stand out in that way, especially the socialists? More specifically, the SZDSZ back in the day? To sell, let's say, the state-owned national-owned textbook publisher, they only dealt with privatisation. [[14.30]] We didn't sell textbook publishers, we bought a public publisher, we even bought two public publishers, we rolled them together in OFI, and we provide textbooks in a free-of-charge system. We have developed a system of more modern experimental textbooks, in which teachers can get a bonus if they participate in this, and on a working day they indicate where the quality of the books should be improved, where students can accept it more, where they can accept it less. And you're making accusations that clearly cannot be read out of the budget? and then anyone shows me the line where the number of students going to high school from 1 September next year is there. You are talking about this, while there is obviously no data on this in the next year's budget, it is only that we are spending HUF 209 billion on secondary education instead of HUF 196 billion. What's the most important thing? We've said it many times, but does it seem worth recalling to you again? that if you look at the previous four years, the processes of the four years or the wage increases of this year, that is, if there is a social group, an employee group who will receive a steady increase in wages in the previous year and this year and a half, that is exactly the circle of teachers. [[Gergely Farkas: They're protesting on Saturday.]] Because you talk about a lot of things that should be done, but this government doesn't talk about it, it does. In the policy of wage increases, the first truly beneficiary group was precisely educators, because we not only talked about investing in the future, we talked not only about investing in knowledge, but also about the preservation of the teaching career and the incentive of quality education by various master teachers and teachers II. We also tried to recommend to teachers that those who are willing to put more on the table are more concerned with children or care for children in a better quality, and that they should be paid more. What is the largest amount, about 160 billion forints, we spend on this in addition next year? Next year, 38 billion, compared to this year, is that the plus that comes from the teacher's wage increase? It means that this government really appreciated the work of teachers not only in words, but also in actions that can be read out of the budget law. By doing so, he laid the foundations for a higher quality education and thus provides access to knowledge, good quality knowledge, and high quality education to all young Hungarian schoolchildren. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, the LMP Group.
u2014-11-20-85	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, If you'll allow me, I would like to speak to Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, who said that the MSZP was interested in nothing but privatisation. You have improved this because you don't even want to buy it, but with 20-year leases, you have to put your hands on the land, the tramps and everything without having to do anything. So how to use public wealth and public resources is only an improved version of this, which is even more economical. I wanted to thank you when I applied, Mr Pócs, for his speech. He specifically said here that the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, the European Union's resources, was being used by the government, but he did not realize that we were talking about the country's budget. So what you said was a very nice presentation about what EAFRD resources will finance from LEADER through machine subsidies, but you didn't say a word about what the government wants to give you from EU funds, while you don't spend almost anything in your budget on the Hungarian countryside. So technically... [[Alexander Font: That's not true! You weren't listening to my speech. ? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] ... it's basically this kind of communication that's completely misleading. But in fact, because I asked for the floor, it was László Szászfalvi's comment, who said about it again, I don't know, the opposition character which was called Rogán-clon by one of the opposition representatives. He said the family tax relief, as has been said five times, and they do not take into account the fact that families need the taxed income that they do not currently have. They give you a discount they can't afford. So again, those who have a substantial income have a family tax allowance, of course, only until the child starts college when it costs most money, because then he will not receive any tax benefits. Now Mr Szászfalvi has said again, which has already been said twice, how the support of civilians is increasing, from 3.5 billion to 5.5 billion, while I have already said twice in the two days that in the cursed eight years, the filth, garbage, and I do not know what the lowest amount under the MSZP government was 7 billion. [[Defiance in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] Are you guys...? Seven billion was the smallest, and that's what you're talking about. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm glad he's gone up. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP. ? Zoltán Grumpy: You're a jerk, Bugsy!]]
u2014-11-20-86	Dear Parliament, I ask with due respect that we listen to each other instead of dialogue, and I am sure that we will move forward. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why we're holding back.]] I now give the floor for a two-minute speech to Congressman Sándor Font, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture.
u2014-11-20-87	Thank you very much. [[Noise. ? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Sallai R. Benedek said there were serious slides. Therefore, in order to clarify and also to get to know the true figures of the budget, the people in the room and the viewers of television, I repeat, but at the same time he was not in there at the time of my speech, and it seems that he has not read the correct chapter of the budget, my fellow Member, has remained in this ignorance. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I read it, I'll tell you!]] After I indicated that from the areas above 1200 hectares, the government decided to divert the so-called basic support, this amount will be transferred to livestock and hand-job-intensive agricultural areas and announced the project "More jobs for agriculture," a new resource that we would like to transfer here is HUF 212 billion, and of which HUF 180 billion will be paid from the domestic fund, i.e. from the national budget. Is that the same chapter I'm going to ask you to look at more often? Is this your first time in your life to deal with this? It is called current expenditure and income subsidies. This is all national resources, please, this year, this year's closing year was HUF 49 billion, and next year, HUF 77.7 billion will be planned, and even in-house we are trying to increase this, if possible. This is where all the sectors that the European Union does not support, such as the various chapters of pig farming and poultry farming, but this is where the agricultural compensation scheme is financed, where school milk and drinking milk are financed! A programme that, I believe, will affect all Hungarian families because there is no [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Hungarian family whose child does not attend school. Please keep an eye on these later. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, MSZP Group.
u2014-11-20-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Font and my fellow Member Pócs agree on a number of things in the Committee on Agriculture, but there are some things in which our views are very different, and this is one of them, for example, the question of degression. In the case of farmers in areas above 1200 hectares, this is the withdrawal of certain basic subsidies, as my fellow Members have said, the government intends to transfer these amounts to livestock production. With this, the huge problem is that livestock farms that can effectively and competitively carry out their functions in livestock production are managed in areas above 1200 hectares to be able to feed their own... [[György Balla: That's your opinion, but it's not! ? Zoltán Grimlock: Don't interfere.]] produce for their farm. However, as I said, I agree with my fellow Member Pócs on a few things, who I am sorry that he has now left the room because of his urgent public tasks, he has certainly mentioned that it is more than HUF 1200 billion of EU funds that we can manage next year and beyond. It just seems a little self-righteous at the time, because then I would like to ask my fellow members of the Government to discuss in your ranks, with the Speaker of the House of your party, that the EU flag should not be taken out of the room. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Yeah!]] because once we have a good EU resource and EU money, at least the EU flag should not be taken out [[Intercoms from the benches of the ruling parties.]] because I think that this attitude is at least or minimally hypocritical, because it cannot be reconciled. Thank you. Have a nice day.
u2014-11-20-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Retvári State Secretary, I couldn't leave behind the brazen prognosis that you're telling me about reality. You're here to praise the situation of teachers, teachers who are here this Saturday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We'll see! Let's not drink to the skin of the bear.]] they will protest against you and against the current draft budget. You don't really think these people, these thousands of educators or even tens of thousands of them, would be opposition activists, or I don't know what kind of motivation they'd take on the streets. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: How many will be there? Tens of thousands?]] Because of the practical, everyday problems, the KLIK's catastrophic operation, they're protesting for the expected withdrawal next year. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What withdrawal? What withdrawal?]] [[14.40]] Let's take a look at the numbers, because I see you don't understand, Your Honour. KLIK received 484 billion this year, and you added 50 billion, 534 billion forints. In the next year, unlike HUF 534 billion, the total amount of HUF 524 billion is planned, and according to Minister Mihály Varga, only the salary increase for teachers will increase by HUF 38 billion next year. I don't know if you're watching me, Mr. Secretary, but I think the numbers are pretty clear, no matter how you look at it, it's a reduction. And can you see that it's not just because of the operation of the KLIK, by the way? Which you've already confessed, wouldn't you say I'd like to reschedule? But also with regard to foundation schools, because of the confusion that you have caused here with your budget plan, that I would like to give 75 percent of this year's norm and then withdraw from it, this kind of uncertainty will make you appear against it. It is possible to mention their ideas about high school seats and a number of problems that cause everyday problems for teachers. So it's in itself that the pedagogical career model is on the move? It was a necessary, late, but it was finally a step, are we happy? It doesn't solve the problems, especially if you raise the uncertainty, the chaos that affects the KLIK and the teachers' daily lives. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the two-minute speeches on this round. Mr István Nagy State Secretary, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, will take the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-20-93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had to ask for the floor, because over the last few minutes there have been thoughts that cannot be ignored, because this would simply be confrontational compared to reality. To say that subsidies from the European Union budget and subsidies from the Hungarian budget can and must be separated, because what comes from the European Union is not given by Hungary, and then it does not belong here and there is no need to talk about it, this House has heard a greater slippage or gross deception. My fellow Member Sallai R. Benedek already said yesterday that the environmental funds are not getting enough support; of course, because he does not take into account the 50 billion HUF bid from GINOP and the KEHOP, which is specifically used to develop and provide funds in these proposals. I listen to it with a very sad heart, by the way, every time there are comments like agriculture is just about and the most important part of what programmes there are support, support, support and support. That's all we've been talking about for a few years now, and I think it's wrong. It is quite all right so far, and I think we can safely and proudly say that there are so many sources coming into Hungarian agriculture today that we have not seen in a long time. Many additional sources help Hungarian producers to become competitive, but as a farmer let me tell you when we can finally talk about what breeding programmes, what genetic progress, what programmes can help producers produce more effectively. I would like to announce an opportunity that will be the livestock premium of the Ministry of Agriculture, and this is also included in the budget, which is precisely the basis of which the Ministry would like to evaluate the best livestock farmers. We announce competition among them, the best genetic progress, where the best breeding value is expected and where it will be achieved this year, and the Ministry will acknowledge this work with a reward of 10 million forints. I think it's very important and very serious. My fellow Member, Mr Font, spoke in his speech, and it is indeed small items, but it is of great importance for the school milk and school fruit programme. Why is that? Because at the same time we can talk about three kinds of significance, because it has public health significance? Is that inevitable? Both the milk, the fruit, the juice, the vegetables that the kids get. And one more thing I have to admit to you is that you get it at a very small age, from first to sixth grade, because that's when children develop their habits, and that's when they get used to the fruit, the flavor material they need. Allow me also to take this opportunity to announce that, in addition to fruit, vegetables and milk, a third food will be added to the school: from tomorrow morning, the programme entitled "The Honey Breakfast" will be launched, supported by the Ministry and the Hungarian Association of Beekeepers to make the children familiar with the habits of honey consumption, to make them like it, to get used to being the best thing to start the day in the morning with a honey bread. That's what I wanted to announce, Mr. President. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-95	Thank you very much. I would just take up two sentences of this House's time. I think that Gergely Farkas's comment has decided on today's debate in the field of education, because he said that we are debating that now the teachers will have 38 billion more, or 40 billion more, or 50 billion more, so there will be more, much more or much more. I think this is the most pleasant debate that can be held in Parliament. Teachers obviously deserve more than that, we'd love to, but it's still a very good debate that we're finally arguing about how much more teachers get. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will now return to the pre-notification speeches in writing. I give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-20-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn back to this good debate, as I myself would like to express my opinion on higher education and its budgetary support for higher education, which is in line with the opinion of the Fidesz fraction. I'd like to draw your attention before I talk about numbers, because here we've agreed to all kinds of numbers wars to support higher education budgets? Mathematical operation? 6 billion more than last year, because budget support alone is 143 billion forints. [[Lajos Korózs: After that we subtract 40 billion!]] I apologize, and I'll tell you what additional resources are still available at the Higher Education Structure Change Fund, from the excellence fund, which both support academic research in universities and colleges, scientific workshops, high-quality education, and the need to finally have specialisations, a training profile that is rewarded by social needs and the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote from the higher education strategy, which sets the course for the longer term, and we allocate resources to this every year. Allow me a few sentences on what kind of higher education we think. Therefore, I quote the higher education strategy, which was called "Train Change in Higher Education," which lasts until 2030, and the introductory ideas are this, and I quote: The key to Hungary's development is Hungarian higher education of the right size and quality, which can respond to both social and economic challenges. What's the matter with you? Not just one, but both. In order to achieve our ambitious goals, everything is given in higher education. Therefore, the task of the coming years is to use our strengths, opportunities, resources and existing experience to create the region's finest higher education system, focusing on performance..... So it is not just the input, as during the socialists' time, that as many students as possible come to universities and colleges, spend as much time as possible, and the output? To use such a nasty word? , output doesn't matter, only input. This era is over, it was over in 2010, it only takes a little time for this reorganization to happen. So what's at the center of higher education? Performance, high quality, competitive knowledge and joint success of teachers and students. I believe that, in addition to the joint success of teachers and students, our common success is to have competitive higher education. [[14.50]] Let's look at the numbers, fellow Members. Next year, the state university and college network will receive HUF 143 billion in the central budget for funding. In parentheses, I note that 17.2 billion is for non-states, so private universities and private colleges. Its own revenue is HUF 283 billion for universities and colleges. Many major research universities are capable of R &amp; D and other activities, already able to plan their own revenue so high today. This total is HUF 426 billion. In addition, universities and colleges can expect tens of billions of HUF from the Higher Education Structure Change Fund. Minister of State of Rétvár also mentioned that there is HUF 9.1 billion and HUF 10 billion from the excellence fund. This is the same as the time, so universities won high research intensity, academic excellence titles can spend 10 billion in 2015 as well. Let's mention it, because I taught three decades in a country college, at Nyíregyháza College, that colleges can also get in because you may not know it, but the scientific qualification in this institution, for example, is more than 70%, and yes, I agree with my fellow Member Ikotity, that rural colleges are needed because of regional policy and training of local intellectuals. In addition, higher education is supported by the fact that the National University of Public Service receives HUF 3.7 billion from the Ministry of Justice budget, and almost the same revenue from this university, let us just think about the fact that the National University of Public Service provides training for public administration staff. In addition, we have the PPP programme that cripples universities and colleges, for which NFM receives 8.6 billion from higher education and rent. There are universities where more than 1 billion HUF per year is a burden to the budget, or it means 700 million HUF to the Nyíregyháza College. It also cripples everyday operation and development. Now, HUF 8.6 billion can be spent by higher education institutions on this, and this can be found in the NFM budget. Other additional payments can also be seen. Training support, which means the transformation of the majors, is HUF 4.3 billion. In relation to the teacher-life model, as there are universities and colleges where training schools exist, training gymnasiums or training primary schools, HUF 363 million, for the transformation of the University of Physical Education, for the expansion of the teaching base, HUF 675 million, for the restoration of the historical organ of the Liszt Academy, HUF 200 million and very rightly for the gradual development of a French university within the University of Szeged, it includes HUF 20 million in the chapter classification of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Training grants help universities and colleges to take the necessary steps to address their financial situation. Yes, it has to be resolved, because our main task in recent years has been to do so, as well as to rationalise the organisational changes and the courses they have announced. Allow me to talk briefly about the majors, because there is a social need, there is an economic need, and it is also important for us that students who finish can be able to work on the labour market. Yes, there is a need for medical education, but is engineering, IT training really necessary, is it necessary for the economy to absorb these highly knowledgeable, value-added professionals? In a nasty way? Or they'll be able to get into position. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps I would like to say a thought, which is an additional source of funding for universities and colleges in the budget, the tao that István Tukacs spoke so condescendingly about, my fellow Member, while companies, businesses and companies can support universities and colleges. I was a part of it myself 8-10 years ago when it started, 8-10 years ago, the socialists were in government to have social councils at universities and colleges that bring together the social and economic experts of a given region, a given area, and to help build the appropriate specialties and promote vocational programmes. I think this will mean direct support for the university and college sphere, because if entrepreneurs, companies, can offer support in the form of tao, then universities and colleges will use it well. Ladies and gentlemen, To conclude, let me say that the 2015 budget provides the basis for the higher education sector to talk about the renewal of higher education, to have a profile cleaning in higher education, to dominate quality training more and more so as to eliminate the training that was previously recognised as a buffet-bar area by the common language. I myself have seen 100-150 communication students trained in a country college, and then one or two were able to get a job. This era is over, so I want you to stay out here at the wardrobe or out in the hallway. To end the parallel...? Because universities and colleges located next to each other, everyone is trained in everything, I get normative, the point is for the student to come in and stay there for 8-10 years, yes, student responsibility and the need to complete the university as soon as possible, within a proper training period, to obtain the language exam. I know about a college where 40 percent of them get a certificate because they don't have a language exam, which is why the higher education strategy requires a higher level of graduation by 2020 and a language exam to enter the university and college sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, Quality, competition, performance, success must be characteristic of universities and colleges, and students must also feel that their individual goals, which we consider to be very important, should be useful for society. To sum up, this budget in the field of higher education sets out the way for Hungary with competitive knowledge, XXI. With innovation and high R &amp; D in the first century, it can achieve economic success in Europe and especially here in the Central European region. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Quality, success, performance, stability, development, reduction of bureaucracy, increasing public confidence, have we heard about this budget in the last two days or even in the last few minutes, and you might think we're talking about Norway's budget? as we hear all this success? Luxembourg or Japan. Of course, there was also a speech that for 20 minutes did not really deal with this year's budget. I would like to try to get the debate back from the political pamphlet to the professional parts at this stage. Of course, it should also be mentioned that this budget is more of a budget where it is a desire to meet two kinds of ambition that motivates the collaborators of the budget and its praisers. One is that they want to avoid the excessive deficit procedure of the European Union in any way, which makes it a very great success for you to reduce Hungary's deficit to 2.4 per cent instead of the 3 per cent specified here. This is all about the fact that it is a budget with a bad structure, and the European Union places a deficit of 2.4 per cent of GDP in this calculation method for bad-structure budgets. This is not your performance. That's what you have to live up to. The other kind of satisfaction, I think, while listening to the comments, is more about the fact that government actors do not tolerate criticism very much, and it is therefore necessary to highlight the positive aspects of this budget. But if we look at this from a professional point of view, that everything from 2014 was taken into account, which was positive, and no forecasts for 2015 or the processes in the second half of 2014 have been taken into account, because it has not supported this explanation that you have made about the design, what do you think? [[15.00]] In the short term or even in the medium term, will the macroeconomic environment on which every single economic research institute that gives itself any say that it will not remain a core economic environment? It will not be so easy to finance Hungary from the market. The weakening of the forint and the increase in the interest rate on sovereign debt will bring this budget into such a fragile balance that if anything happens, this budget will not be sustainable or enforceable. You have referred a great deal to the European Union's resources. This year, especially at the beginning of this year, these indicators have succeeded well, and it must be admitted that you have not read the SAO's report carefully, which describes the fact that it must be expected that they will freeze it or be pardoned. The European Union will impose sanctions on Hungary and thus cannot fully take into account this huge EU transfer. We believe that this year's budget has pumped demand into the economy, but its structural, structural deficit and deficit in the next year's budget will not allow this to happen in the next year. This kind of design method is obviously flawed, wrong predictions? Do I say it nicer and more politely? , was followed by more risky planning. VAT revenue can only be this high if prices increase by that much. VAT revenue should not increase more than the increase in consumption unless prices increase. You're counting on a 5.5 percent increase in sja revenue. If they're only 1 to 1.5% wrong and it's only 4 percent, they're already taking a lot of money away from people. If it's only 1.5 percent less, it's a 100 billion-dollar hole, ladies and gentlemen, which you're going to have to figure out again what kind of special tax you're going to have to collect in order to keep the budget balanced and to implement where you're going to have to squeeze it. Then we will privatize something worth 170 billion forints. I would also like to add a little bit to the fact that we do not know what, because this budget is usually not transparent, because the budget has only headlines, the lines are not opened, we should get used to it, but I will always talk about it, and we will always talk about it, because sometimes it doesn't fit with the justification anyway, and sometimes the headlines are not explained. We are going to sell something for 170 billion forints, this is a huge privatisation, especially if we consider that we are now buying energy companies for 152 billion forints at the time of amending the 2014 budget, not going into that debate? We'll do that next week. You are also planning a kind of growth. We can see that in the last three years, we have heard a 1 percent increase in success propaganda, a 1 percent increase. This was largely due to two things: the performance of the agricultural sector and the performance of the automotive industry. None of them had so much to do with it, as automotive investors were brought here by the former governments, the agricultural sector was able to perform well, because the weather was favourable, and this 1 percent was also due to the fact that the base was brought down so deep in 2012-13 that it was only uphill from there. It's not worth being so proud of. These are the circumstances that surround this budget. I have already said that this budget is not very transparent, but sometimes we do not know what to compare it with, because until last week, you have not even reported the figures for 2014. We had to start from 13 for everyone who had to analyse this budget, even though it was a month longer, Mr Secretary, it was time to put comparative data into the budget. There are bad points of gravity in this budget. Of course, in this you can see your policy and the perverse redistribution system we keep saying that sports receive 120 billion forints, from which the National Olympic Center receives 44.2 billion forints, and this money is more than the Hungarian National Rescue Service can manage all year round. This budget spends 43.8 per cent of GDP, but in a structure where the state spends a lot of money on running itself, Parliament, ministries, state apparatus, while reducing social support: the government saves HUF 150 billion on social assistance; the budget of the National Family and Social Policy Fund is reduced by 10 per cent; the amount planned for the family allowance is reduced by HUF 13 billion; the amount planned for the child allowance is reduced by 6.5 billion; the amount planned for early retirement is reduced by 36 billion; pension expenditure is reduced by 0.2 per cent? In proportion to GDP? So they're down from 9.3 to 9.1 percent. We're not going to spend any more on health care, there's a $60 billion plus, a $60 billion surplus, specifically labeled to pay off previous debts. But if I know that, then you should know that this is 102 billion HUF 340 million, so half of it, mostly or entirely, is a little more that you have planned for the next year's budget. This next year's budget, especially by cutting social benefits, sends the message to society that those who have some, of course, we can deal with a little bit, but we ask that they do not notice that if they have little, they will have nothing from now on, and we will let them live in peace; but those who have little will have nothing. These cuts, the downsizing of the social system at this level, certainly bring this with it. And this comes with the distorted system, the distorted tax system you see being built. Sometimes you are very proud that we have a single-key tax system, because it is the most fair one, and I always dispute that, because if there are 84,000 out of 100 thousand or 840 thousand every month, it doesn't matter how you tax. But it's interesting that when it's in your best interest to impose special taxes on economic operators who aren't nice to you, you're going to cast this out in lanes. Otherwise, you can apply the banded tax system without further ado, but the problem is that you do it for your own good, because the companies in the lunar yard always stay at the bottom of the band, so you have to design the lanes and you see them. Those who have to pay a lot of taxes because they don't agree with government policy, or others like this business, they're always on top of the band. This type of opportunistic taxation system will severely reduce economic growth, reduce economic productivity, and, not least, if it is reduced, they will pay even less taxes, and you will again have to think about what we should do again, what we should tax. They may now hold a national consultation of HUF 150 per megabit or something. In terms of employment, there was a lot of talk about yesterday's debate and today's public work programme. Of course, it's hard for you to argue with that. That would not be the purpose of this public work programme. The aim of the Public Works Programme would be to employ temporary people who have fallen from the labour market and are to be brought back to work in the public sector. Compared to this, you will spend 270 billion, 35 billion forints more on community service next year, but to train these people, to make it easier for these people to be employed, even with EU funds, you will spend 35 percent less money, telling them that you have entered the public service programme. And you're gonna stay inside. The 8-9 percent who can come back? very, very low, 8-9 percent, who can return to the labour market? "We can see that this budget is already telling him that he will not be able to return, but he has planned his salary of HUF 44,000 into this budget. Where are we from having 10 million jobs here? ! Did I watch the interview with the Secretary of State of Czomba last night? Do I do that sometimes? and he said that the growth in employment did not only increase from public employment, but this shows the result of vocational training, and this shows the result of retraining. [[15.10]] This is what the government has responded to, as it has reduced the funds for vocational training and adult education by HUF 10.4 billion, and you are cutting employment and training subsidies by HUF 13 billion. This means that you want to preserve this state because it is good for you. There are other beneficiary social groups and layers in their moonyards that you want to benefit from. Those who are not, if there are few, then nothing, this budget says so, and I think that this has a terrible message. His message and his performance, which we hear here in addition to the success propaganda, is that from where we come from, from Pécs, Elcoteq has ceased, the glove factory will now cease, leaving Hungary as a Hungarian company after 120 years on the grounds that it is too expensive to produce in Hungary. The champagne factory is leaving, moving away from Pécs, and by the way, with the central tobacco distributor, the tobacco factory in Pécs, as the last remaining large employer, will place the sword of Damocles above the head of a large division. It's coming down here, where people live, not in the Patymkin village you see. It's coming down here. We have therefore tabled amendments to this, amendments to help solve these problems, and I ask you to support them. Believe me, you don't have the Philosopher's Stone, you want to meet only those gentlemen who don't accept criticism. This is a failed, unsustainable budget in its structure, serving only one lunar yard and destroying social cohesion in its entirety, as is your intention. I therefore propose that the amendments be adopted and that the budget be adopted afterwards. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-11-20-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the world around us, there are rapid and profound changes in both economic and demographic and unfortunately military areas. The aim of Fidesz is to make Hungary a winner of these changes. To this end, the Ministry was converted into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. It is also clear from the name that one of the main tasks of the Ministry is to enforce Hungarian economic interests abroad, thereby contributing to the development of the Hungarian economy, the prosperity and modernisation of the country. Thus, the foreign economy is the focus of Hungarian foreign policy, but this does not mean that classical diplomacy would lose its significance. On the contrary. This is the basis on which foreign economic policy can be built. This policy has three basic tasks: to find new opportunities for the foreign market, to promote the success of Hungarian companies abroad, and to attract investment in jobs in Hungary. The Ministry's equipment system was adapted to these tasks. The JRC has the full institutional, asset system and financial background of export development and investment promotion. The proportion of Hungarian exports to GDP is 89 and 97 percent respectively, depending on whether we accept data from the HCSO or Eurostat, but 85 percent of this otherwise very good performance is provided by large international companies. Currently, there are only 2500-3000 Hungarian private small and medium-sized enterprises producing exportable products or services. The purpose of the Eximbank and the trading house system is to quadruple the number of these businesses. The bank's capital increase will be available in 2015 for HUF 18 billion, and for tied aid loans that it can pay on the basis of a specific government decision, an additional HUF 600 million will be available. Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. the number of trading houses operated by the end of this year exceeds two dozen. About four fifths of Hungarian exports are currently targeted at the European Union. Our aim is to further increase the volume of Western exports, while also increasing our presence on markets in countries which produce dynamic growth outside our traditional external markets, mainly east of us and to a lesser extent south of us. Our aim is to ensure that the share of exports can exceed the current 20-21 percent and reach one third in the long term. Well, this is the Eastern opening strategy, and this is what the expansion of the foreign representation network, the opening of a new embassy in Mongolia, Ecuador, Malaysia and Nigeria, and the opening of a new Consulate General in Vietnam, Brazil and Iraq. There is no Hungarian foreign representation today where foreign economic attaché is no longer serving. The expenditure planned for the management of delegations will increase by 5 percent next year, in line with these changes, which will enable these tasks to be financed. The successful foreign economy is on the same footing, of which exports have been mentioned so far, but it is equally important to attract working capital to our country. Accordingly, the KKM has also received the National Investment Agency, formerly known as the National Foreign Trade Office or the English word HITA, which is responsible for increasing the number, volume and number of jobs they have created in Hungary. The NBÜ will serve the incoming requests, find potential investors and provide them with full, free project management, as part of which it will prepare a customized information package and offer investment locations from the real estate database it operates. Support from the Investment Promotion Target managed by the National Investment Agency aims to encourage the implementation of major investment projects in Hungary. The target amount is HUF 13.5 billion. In addition, the international investment target from the Ministry of National Development to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade amounts to HUF 500 million. Ladies and gentlemen, After reviewing the institutional system for export development and investment promotion, please allow me to briefly discuss other elements of the SME budget, also partly new. Since this summer, the costs of the operation of the Istanbul Hungarian Institute have been included in the expenditure of the Balassi Institute under the control of the KKM, thus increasing by about 5 percent. The Balassi Institute also uses 1.5 billion HUF for the operation of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme. While the JRC took over significant external economic, investment promotion and European territorial association-related tasks during 2014 from the NGM, the Prime Minister's Office, the IM and the NFM, the Ministry of Justice carried out discussions on infringement procedures. The planned expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade title reflects these changes. For the first time this year, support for organisations and professional programmes under the control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will be published in the budget of this chapter with HUF 860 million. This will allow the JRC to finance these diverse tasks more flexibly in the light of the year's needs. [[15.20]] In 2015, Hungary will receive 22.5 percent more money, 480 million HUF from the European Union for travel expenses incurred in connection with participation in Council meetings. The chapter of the budget on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade also includes a reserve of HUF 1 billion, i.e. around 1 percent of the total amount of the chapter, which is used to cover expenditure on tasks that are expected to arise during the year and cannot be financed from a central source. To sum up, according to the new structure, our country's economic and diplomatic external relations are financed in a cost-effective way, while at the same time ensuring the fulfilment of the tasks, is included in the draft budget law before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Egyed, Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the 2015 budget proposal, I would like to address two issues which Jobbik believes cannot be covered in this budget. But if there is, then I think the Secretary of State will indicate exactly where. The first very important issue, which concerns a significant part of civil society, is the question of animal protection. Everyone knows very well, and you, my fellow Members, are well aware that the current system of lawn masters is an extremely outdated system, and it is safe to say that in 2014 it has passed its time. In addition, civil society organisations work with their own money, with their own resources, which can expect nothing more than the collection of 1 percent if they are entitled to do so and try to carry out a public service. If we combine a lawnyard and an animal rescue facility operated by civilians, we can see the following difference: one receives funding and the other does not receive funding. By the way, I used to call lawnsmen death row for dogs and cats. 'Cause what's going on there? You'll get a certain quota. And what's your interest? When the dog has a two-week quarantine and the owner doesn't show up, they kill the animal with a noble simplicity, be it six months, ten years or whatever age, even though it might be much more effective if they function as civil society organisations in various forums? Is Facebook perfect for this? They'll start looking for a farmer for the animals. There is also a civil society organisation in Miskolc that operates an animal shelter. I am in contact with a number of non-governmental organisations operating animal shelters in the country, and they are of the opinion that they deserve public support, because, as I said, they are performing a public task, because, on the one hand, stray animals are returned to the farmer, if the farmer has complied with the law at the right time, and if they have animals that do not have an owner or which must be removed from the place, because they are mistreated, they will find the right owner for him. We would like to help these organisations to obtain support from budgetary resources so that they do not have to act as beggars, because these civil society organisations can practically count on the good intentions of the more affluent people, the more wealthy companies. In his speech, my colleague from Szászfalvi mentioned that the government spent HUF 2 billion more on civil society organisations in the 2015 budget. I would like to draw your attention to this question, and I can only trust that this HUF 2 billion is not allocated to the CF to finance the various rounds. I think that what I have just raised is a very noble and timely question to resolve this problem in Hungary. The other one, which is closely linked to animal protection, and which has also been treated as a stepchild in the last 20-25 years, is the financing of the operation of organizations that perform special rescue tasks, with no exception dog search. Has Miskolc been operating such an organization for 20 years? I'm sure you know he's made a world name, called to various parts of the world to find lost and missing people. The biggest problem I see with regard to this issue is that nobody cares about these organisations, nobody cares about them until one of their friends or relatives is in a position to find them within a closed deadline. I believe that these organisations must find the right source. I am very sorry that Secretary of State Kontra is not in the room, but I trust that he can lobby the Minister of the Interior for this purpose, because if there is a disappearance, there is a disaster situation, and the practice is that the police arrive, disaster protection arrives, and since they do not have the people prepared for this situation and have the means to do so, the next step is to call for rescue teams that are territorially competent or available in the area, which usually solve the task. I wish for the whole nation not to have to do this once, but we do not know when a disaster will occur in the country or in any country that it will be necessary for these organisations to be able to get to the site in the right way and at the right time. Now I just want to go into the Miskolc example: these people maintain their technique, maintain their search dogs, which cost millions of forints to train, one of them drives a sick car next to him, the other two glue multi-posters, and after working their eight-ten-twelve hours a day, when there's an alarm, they start a 24-hour deployment. I'm guessing everyone in this room agrees that it's not operational or feasible. I think these organisations deserve to receive the right support from the Hungarian State. You don't have to think about big numbers here, and the special ambulances in Miskolc just asked that they have two or three people who can take full-time care of it, because they feel guilty when they get an alarm, and they have to answer that we can't leave until 6:00 p.m. until we find the old man who's lost in the woods because we're working because we have to support our family. I believe that there must be a solution to this. Another issue that I wanted to bring to this House, which, in my view, is a much wider problem, the financing of municipalities and thus disadvantaged small areas. In the 2015 budget, too, we do not see the figures on the basis of which these trends may improve, rather than even improve, but are getting worse. Allow me to say a few thoughts about my narrower region, where I live? Because everyone's really facing the problems where they spend most of their time? It is one of the most disadvantaged regions of Borsod County. What's going on there? The trend is this: depopulation, ageing villages, which I can describe with practically three words, are characterised by poverty, crime and emigration in 2014. That's what we need to do. And if we narrow down the living room, let me give you an example of the settlement where I live. In Ragály, which is a seven hundred enthusiastic settlements, in a beautiful rustic castle there is the building of the municipality, whose renovation there is no hope, since, let alone its funding cannot be solved by the municipality, but if there is even a tender, it is also hopeless for him to be able to contribute the minimum share. But going further, I must also note that the situation of the people living there is also hopeless. I think if the government were to act with the right wisdom, it would pay more attention to this small region. You can see that region from here. But do you know how the people who live there see the country? Well, the people who live there see the country as having Budapest, and there is Hungary next to it. Budapest currently operates in Hungary as a separate state. [[15.30]] Budapest is currently operating in Hungary as a separate state, in Budapest there is no hope for people to thrive, and it follows that these villages will be depopulated. The only thing on the cake is that in this small area, for example, even if the Good Lord helped us and settled in some production plant, they can't even give us permission to do so because it's in the territory of a national park. I think that the only one breakout point in these areas could be tourism, which requires the help of the Hungarian state, the help of the government, because if there are no changes there in a short time, then the Hungarian countryside will be depopulated. I guess you don't think it's possible that a significant part of Hungary's population will live in Budapest and what happens in the countryside will happen. I would ask you, I would ask the honourable Government, to consider what I have said, and if you consider our proposals worthy, I would ask you to present this in the budget. Thank you very much for listening, and on behalf of the Jobbik, I would ask you to really consider it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party will renounce the time frame set for the faction and the remaining time frame for the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group on this day. I'd like to reschedule the time frame. Dear Parliament, Now, before we proceed to two-minute speeches, the Government will be the first to speak. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to one thought of my fellow Member, Zsolt Egyed, because he has drawn attention to an important issue, namely the question of animal shelters, which cannot be ignored. I would definitely like to say, in support of or strengthening sentences about this. A dog is a man's friend. We often treat him like our child, but sometimes it's like he's our stepchild. As a result, there are obviously different options for dogs themselves in different places. We also need to say that they share our fate. Wealth, poverty. That is exactly why it is infinitely difficult to come up with a single line, a line of support to maintain it. If there are good people, then they're the ones who do animal welfare, animal protection. One of our finest NGOs is precisely those who are concerned with saving these animals, finding farmers, saving their lives. I would definitely leave that to the civilian sector, including their support. They're so creative, they have the ability to earn income, they can open the hearts of so many good people, because they can, too. [[Spreading his hands:]] they have such a big heart, and since they cannot be uniformed, they cannot be forced into a single system and the whole support system, so I say that they are included in the budget, so that they can, of course, apply as civil society organisations for various civil funds, for state funds, and for local governments. There is no municipality that does not support these works in terms of or in terms of its potential. If you think about the processes that we have been through: the municipalities have registered the dogs, we have pinched the dogs, precisely so that we can regulate the responsibility of keeping dogs, so that we can be traced to know who is the normal and who is the disorderly farmer, who keeps these dogs as children and who is the stepchild. With this, the situation of dogs and the fate of dogs in Hungary has been very clear. I hope so, and I asked you to allow me, my fellow Member, to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about a very important issue, because it is our friend. And it must be an important issue for all our fellow humans to maintain, support, and operate. I ask all our fellow humans to continue to support the maintenance and operation of animal shelters with their donations, up to 1 percent or other donations. After all, the fate of the dogs is the same as that of us. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2014-11-20-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, A wide variety of aspects of the debate have been assessed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a very, very important aspect has been missed, namely the assessment of sustainable development. If we did so, it is possible that we would not evaluate this budget in so many ways, and it may not seem that we are assessing different budget proposals. Sustainable development is sometimes, rarely of course, noted here in the Parliamentary Hall, but misinterpreted. In general, it is always referred to as sustainable economic growth, and we forget once again that the goal of sustainable development is to make a better living for society, improve the standard of living for people, improve the quality of education, improve morals in society, restore values and put the economy in its place, not as a target, but as an instrument. This budget also shows that we are once again setting the economy as a target, and we hope that the economy will be better and that we will solve the denser problems. And that includes environmental aspects, which are the conditions of our lives. If we put these three together, then I think that this budget does not correspond to any of these aspects. Unfortunately, Hungary is increasingly away from sustainable development and sustainable society. Because if we look at the 4 million poor Hungary, this budget will only strengthen and increase the number of poor people. The economy no longer builds on anything but the fact that foreign capital will come here and not deal with how to strengthen the local economy and create conditions for the local economy. And on environmental conditions, he pretends not to be limited to our lives now. This, I think, needs to be given great attention in the coming period. Thank you.
u2014-11-20-108	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Congressman, we certainly agree on one thing that you said that we are attracting foreign investors to Hungary so that they can create as much meaningful jobs as possible. Now this is what is on the Hungarian government until the stamp of corruption is on the Hungarian government, because until today neither you nor Ildikó Vida have been cleared, I add, as long as we are talking about a complete lack of transparency, until neither the rule of law nor predictability has been guaranteed, and we can talk about legislation tailored to persons or companies by the government and the Fidesz faction, and as long as Fidesz lies its own party interest in Hungarian national interests, when our allies criticize your politics, as long as they appreciate them as attacks, the situation will not change, they will not invest in Hungary. It is, and it has been mentioned several times now that we have a problem with community service, of course we have a problem with it, because it is precisely the kind of meaningful jobs that can be achieved through investment. You are also driving them away from Hungary. I think the decision is in the hands of the government, and it is the responsibility of the government and the Fidesz faction to choose which way they choose. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-110	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-20-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Now, at least I think we're talking about a budget debate. But, of course, these thoughts cannot be ignored. Especially what you expect from the government, from us, to respond to NAV charges. These charges have only appeared, but there is no evidence behind them. In fact, it doesn't even say exactly what the specifics are, what they should be looking at. Corruption charges have generally been made many times, and here in the House we have discussed this from Gábor Simon to Hagyó. So this can be rolled over nicely. [[15.40]] I would think that you, as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, would be a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. [[Zoltán Gőgös: This is a fundamental foreign interest.]] and the budget of the Foreign Affairs chapter, if you'd like to say a few words [[Zoltán Grimlock: Tooth!]] I'm sure it would move the state of the state forward, because we're in a budget debate. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Pride: You weren't here yesterday. He told me yesterday. He was supposed to be here! ? Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-112	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end this dialogue in the Chamber, because we are now continuing with pre-notification speeches in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon, Fidesz Group.
u2014-11-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will comment on a topic that is popular in the eyes of many of us, and this is nothing more than the sports chapter of the draft budget law. If you look at the figures, you can clearly see that the support for the sport sector in 2015 will increase by more than HUF 118.8 billion, i.e. by more than 20 percent to the initial allocation in 2014, which was HUF 98.4 million. The 2015 budget therefore preserves the results of governance so far in this area as well. Since its establishment in 2010, the government has been treating sport as a strategic sector, and already in 2010 it has doubled its public support for sport compared to 2009, which has continued to increase and continue to increase. Support for high-level sports events in Hungary is defined as a policy objective in the field of competition and training. This appropriation will be available for HUF 672.1 million in 2015. For example, the 2015 European Women's Basketball Championship will be held, which amounts to HUF 154.2 million. The availability of adequate quality sports facilities is an essential condition for the domestic organisation of high-level sporting events. I would note here that, at the end of the last week, in my constituency, Győr, the Audi Arena Győr Sports Facility was handed over, which is, by the way, a shortcoming investment, since in previous years the Champions League winner Audi ETO KC could not hold their matches in Győr, in several cases these BL matches were held in Budapest, here in the capital or in Veszprém. Győr county-righted city organizes an Olympics in 2017, namely the Summer European Youth Olympic Festival, the EYOF. Forint 1.6 billion forints will be added to the related developments, but in addition to this, the HUF 6.1 billion state aid will be provided for the development of sports facilities for the 2021 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Swimming and Open Water Championships in the 2015 budget. The government pays particular attention to improving the health of the population, increasing the number of regular athletes. I would like to point out that I myself see that there are more and more people who practice recreational sports, more and more people are cycling, running and applying for running races, so there is definitely a health-conscious thinking in Hungary in recent years. In the field of competition sport, the primary objective is to support professional decisions along sound sports strategies. A few thoughts about racing. One of the most important tasks in 2015 is to prepare for the 2016 Rio de Janeiro Olympics and Paralymies. Here I would remind the honourable Members that Hungary won 168 gold, 146 silver and 165 bronze medals in the summer Olympic Games between 1896 and 2012. This means that we stand in the ninth place in the ranks of the nations. And I would also like to mention the overall Hungarian medal table of the Paralympic Games, which covers the period 1972-2012, where 33 gold, 40 silver and 55 bronze medals were won by our Hungarian compatriots, and we are also in a prestigious position in this aggregation. So I think that we will all have the pride of a nation if we can continue this process in the Rio Olympics in 2016. In addition to promoting the effective preparation of athletes, there are tasks such as anti-doping activities, to which HUF 165.2 million is allocated, as well as support for the performance of sports health tasks of more than HUF 115 million. The Sports Development Programme launched in 2013 aims to facilitate the implementation of the tasks set out in the Sports Development Strategy of the National Sports Associations of the 16 sports disciplines highlighted by the Hungarian Olympic Committee for the years 2014-20. In support of various successful roles in qualifying competitions in the year before the Olympic Games, in addition to central coordination, there will be a significant emphasis on supporting the Olympic preparation programme elements planned by the sports concerned in their development concept. The development programme launched in 2013 will provide a predictable vision for priority sports by 2020, thereby creating the necessary conditions for seamless, interlinked programme-based professional work. As a result of the development, academia programmes were launched in 16 sports disciplines, regional centres were launched, rural bases were established, conditions for preparation were improved as well as training and training. I would like to mention here that between July 2013 and June 2014 in one year, the 16 sports have won 508 medals in the European Championships, world championships, world cups and qualifying competitions, of which 163 are gold medals. The budget also includes support for the activities of the selected sports associations, such as the Budapest Honvéd, BVSC, Ferencváros Gymnastics Club, the Hungarian Body Practitioners' Corner, MTK, Újpest Gymnasium, Vasas Sports Club for the years 2014-20. The amount is the same as this year, the planned amount is HUF 1.65 billion, which is included in the budget. Supporting and talented training programmes, support for sports school activities and further development of the academic system, with the task of creating a regulatory environment, will continue. For example, the Gerevich Sports Scholarship, Olympic annuity and national athletes will receive state rewards in addition to an annuity, the so-called "priority training programme" and the Hungarian Sports Stars Scholarship for the recognition of coaches and athletes, while the government decree on the state reward for each outstanding sporting achievement will provide state rewards for athletes and athletes who will be involved in their training, as well as for medalists and trainers and professionals who prepare them at the European and World Championships. Compared to the 2014 budget, support for the development of sports facilities will increase by HUF 20.5 billion, with the result that additional tasks will be possible. The most important objective in the field of sport facility development is to develop state-owned sports facilities, primarily the Olympic Centres and other strategic state sports facilities. I would mention, for example, the establishment of the National Olympic Centre, the development of the Spike Hall and its related swimming pool complex. In addition, it is also important that the so-called national stadium development programme, which includes football-sports facilities, such as the stadium in Diósgyőr, Sóstói Stadium in Székesfehérvár, and the development of the Szombathely Progress Stadium, is included, in particular with Hungary's good chance of hosting the 2020 European Football Championship. As a member of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, I think it is important to mention the school development and gym building programme that started in 2014. [[15.50]] There will be 900-900 million forints to continue, and EU funds will be involved here. Thus, a total of 3-3 billion are available. Finally, it is also an important task to develop sports methodological and training centres and replacement bases, with a total value of HUF 11.6 billion. For example, the National Handball Academy in Balatonboglár is 1.5 billion; the West-Hungary Center for Regeneration is HUF 2.4 billion; the South-Pest Center for Regeneration is HUF 2.2 billion; the National Basketball Academy in Pécs is HUF 1.7 billion; the swimming pool in Gödöllő is HUF 3.5 billion; and the investment of the multifunctional hall in Tatabánya is HUF 300 million. The aim is to develop state-of-the-art national methodological and training centres, as well as to create modern replacement bases that can meet the needs of several sports. I would note here that, of course, in addition to the central budget, local authorities can do a lot to support sport. I am thinking not only about sport and competition, but I am thinking here, for example, about promoting sport for people with disabilities, people with disabilities, and also about promoting sport for the elderly. As an example, do I bring up Győr, where 1 percent of the total budget is spent? It's been almost eight years now? Every year, Győr provides support for sport from his budget. This is a practical HUF 360-400 million per year. Finally, I thank all those who have drawn up this draft budget. I think it means a serious professional job. Finally, a quote from Albert Szent-Györgyi, the Nobel Prize-winning scientist, who, as we know, was very fond of sports himself and often played tennis. A few sentences from his lecture in 1930:, Sport is primarily a spiritual concept. A sports team is a reduced image of society, a match is a symbol of a noble struggle for life. During the game, sports teach you the most important civic virtues in a short time: solidarity, self-sacrifice, complete subordination of individual interests, endurance, willingness to act, quick decision, self-discipline, absolute decency and above all the rules of fair play, noble struggle. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for giving me the honor of your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár has applied for a speech, Mr Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would particularly like to comment on the budget defence chapter. In this regard, I would first like to say that the defence chapter did not surprise us, unfortunately. Not only is it a breakthrough, but there is not even any progress in the area of defence in the 2015 budget. You could say that this is the one-place budget in the defence area. In fact, in many respects a step backwards took place. This is also a big problem because our defence capabilities and our defence itself are unfortunately of a very low standard. Well, it's not because of our soldiers' attitudes or expertise, it's because of their support. The total military budget is only 0.75 percent of GDP. In this respect, too, this year has been a step backwards, since this year's budget had a figure of 0.79 percent. This represents approximately HUF 250 billion, and this 0.75% of GDP is also below NATO expectations, as NATO expects 2 percent. But in order for the Hungarian Defence Office to fully protect the country, even more than 2 percent of the GDP-related support would be needed for the defence area. The other very big problem in this chapter is the small financing of the development of the army. They want to make minimally necessary improvements, for which only HUF 8.3 billion is intended in 2015. It also says a lot about this defence budget, that we spend more than 10 percent of the total amount spent on defence on the Gripens, which is also a meaningful figure. In terms of the number of soldiers, the number of soldiers is 25,533, roughly the same as in the previous year, but there is a Parliamentary resolution of 2013, according to which the number of Hungarian Defence Forces was 29,700. To do so, the government and the wallet should keep to themselves, and we do not see any action, nor do we have any figures in the budget that would suggest that we are moving towards an increase in the army. The draft law mentions four priorities in the Budget Act. One is the military career model, and the other is the provision of the basic operating and maintenance conditions of the Hungarian Defence Office. The third is to provide appropriations for international commitments, the KFOR quota, the Baltic Air Defence and the EU-V4 battle group, and the fourth is to provide appropriations for military equipment expenditure. I'd like to go through these for a few thoughts. The military career model. The wage development planned by the wallet will take effect from 1 July 2015. Hungary's Fundamental Law also provides that the Hungarians are to be paid in proportion to their sacrifice. This is not the case today, and it will not be in 2015 either. Based on the figures, the military career model is difficult to call a career model, which means ten thousand forints of wage development for a soldier. We think it's very, very little. Among the priorities, the draft law mentions the provision of basic operating conditions for defence, perhaps the only thing that will be achieved. That's how the defense works, but I'd say it's not a function, it's a vegetation. The tasks related to international commitments: there are several things that we disagree with and that are contrary to Jobbik's position. For example, engagement in Afghanistan among international commitments is not a commitment, it is not bound by the NATO Treaty, this mission is not our duty, and we believe that Hungarian soldiers should not be in Afghanistan or Somalia. The budget for this engagement in Afghanistan is HUF 2.8 billion, while for wage development it is HUF 2.2 billion, which is not in proportion, we believe, with the goals that the head of the wallet also expresses. I also need to highlight the line from the defence budget which is the operational and pre-station and technical security costs. These costs could be saved, and that would cost $42 billion, which, in my opinion, is enormous. If the troops themselves were protecting their own and other military objects? He'd be a human being, yet they'd have these objects protected by the VPs for a separate salary; they're basically armed security guards. What I think is even more important about the budget in the defence area is the Hungarian military industry. We also do not see how the Hungarian military industry wants to be developed, because the military industry is very weak, but it has enormous potential. It would also be the government's task to revive this, make it more economical, and use its products to modernise the country's military forces. If this were to happen, if there really were a Hungarian military industry, then the costs of the development of the army could be reduced, the revenue of the military industry would be shared and increased by the state, and Hungary would have a dedicated military force, which is not negligible for reasons of national security. As I have already said, we are very short on what the government intends to devote to development. [[16.00]] In this connection, we are also proposing an amendment, and we would like to add HUF 12 billion to the technical and personal conditions for the development of forces. We know it's not enough. It would take much more than this amount to really have a strong, powerful army in Hungary. In addition to the defence budget, I would like to draw your attention to two other proposals for amending the budget, which are not related to defence. One of them is? And I'm glad that Secretary Károly Kontra is here? That we would include in the budget the costs of closing the Debrecen refugee reception station. Plus 50 million forints. The Immigration and Nationality Office would make this HUF 50 million out of cash benefits. We have mentioned this topic several times in the Parliament that the reception station in Debrecen should be closed. To my last oral question, the Secretary of State did not answer whether the government intended to close the refugee camp in the future, because this could create the security of Debrecen and the interests of the people of Debrecen. I hope that I will now get an answer from the Secretary of State to this question. The other amendment, which I have tabled, and I think it is very important, is the renewal of the road section linking Balmazújváros and Hajdúböszörmény, and I would like to devote 2.2 billion forints to extraordinary government measures. The people of Balmazújváros and Hajdúböszörmény do not have to present this section of the road. During each parliamentary election, the Fidesz candidate always promises to make this trip right, but nothing has happened to date, and this section of the road is slowly becoming life-threatening, so bad. Thank you very much, that's all I wanted. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-20-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to respond to Mr Gergely Kulcsár's contribution, precisely to the part where he missed the fact that the resources needed for the soldier's career model only allow for a salary increase of about HUF 10 000. And I will also respond to the question of our fellow Member, Mr Staudt, in the early afternoon, when he asked if he could not find in the BM chapter the sources of the career model for the professional staff of the prison execution. So I would like to say to both Members that these funds amount to HUF 44 billion, as set out in Annex XI. The Prime Minister's Office Chapter is available among the various payments for the allocation of provisions. So once again, this will enable HUF 44 billion, and not HUF 10 000, but, in the first step, an average of 30 per cent, and according to our plans, in the remaining four years, it will allow for an increase of 5 per cent per year, i.e. a total of 50 per cent, to the end of 2019 in the event of the adoption of the career model. So in the first step, as of July 1, 2015, the average salary increase will be 30 percent for police officers, firefighters, emergency services, secret services, bvs, soldiers, that is, for this round. The budget of the HM chapter contains a salary supplement of HUF 10 thousand or more, but it includes a monthly salary increase of HUF 10 thousand for the deputy officers and ensigns, which was introduced from 1 January 2014. So I would like to say that the Armed and Police Lifestyle Model allows for a 30 percent average salary increase in the event of the adoption of the Budget Act from 1 July 2015. As regards the question of the reception station in Debrecen, we have discussed this with the Member in Parliament several times. I would also like to say here that the government and the police have an explicit goal of maintaining order and security. With the introduction of an asylum detention facility, we have the means for authorities to be able to act forcefully and effectively against illegal refugees, so that they do not endanger the safety of residents in the settlement. By the way, I'm sorry that neither you nor the Jobbik faction voted for this tightening up. We return to the same situation that they are calling for law and order, but when it is possible to vote in Parliament, they do not press yes, but either abstain or vote against it. I suggest that you consider, fellow Members, how credible this policy makes your word for order credible. And one more thing: I would also like to thank the city of Debrecen, with whom we have very good cooperation in order to maintain order and security either in Debrecen, Vámosszabadin or Balassagyarmat. Of course, we also use the help of the Civil Guard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-11-20-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, To the budget ahead, I can't tell you how many names I've managed to give. This poor budget will soon not recognize itself, with so many names. It's supposed to be somewhere in those areas. Why should I be the exception? As a small civil farmer, we also believe that there is a name for this budget, a budget for realities. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Civic farmer. Isn't it a wooden iron ring?]] I am convinced that now such a budget could and must be prepared. Based on what? It is quite clear that Hungary can only spend what is at its disposal in resources, but this is the case with all countries. For these resources to be available, certain conditions must be met. The deficit-to-GDP ratio of 3 per cent shall not exceed. It is necessary to achieve growth in the following year, because if there is no GDP growth, there is nothing to divide. And it is necessary to achieve a reduction in unemployment, because if unemployment is not reduced, in this case there is no taxation, and if there is no taxation, then I must say again that there is nothing to divide. I believe it is quite clear that we must also continue to reduce our total debt, even if it goes a little slower than hoped and desired. Dear House, At the same time, is this budget in my hopes and faith? Is it more my belief that this is the time? the family budget, too. Here, Mr Szászfalvi, Member, has provided very well-founded figures on the actual figures that show that this budget serves the families. This is, I believe, one of the key national tasks. Why? Because what threatens us most today is the eclipse of the nation. The eclipse that seemed unstoppable for a long time, the reversal of which, at least the temporary stop, and then the achievement of a turn from here is inevitable. All kinds of wealth and wealth are useless, and great goals are futile if we cannot reduce and stop the eclipse of the nation and then reverse it. This country, if current trends continue, will not be the same Hungary in 30-50 years. By then, this country will hardly be a country where we can say that we are a Hungarian nation. Therefore, the budget must serve families fundamentally and ensure that families are strengthened in the coming time and that these families have a future and that children are born. It's a weird thing when I first read about the first marriage tax breaks. Don't take this the wrong way, but we've said so many serious things; let me tell you that there was an unfortunate wave in the '30s when a lot of people committed suicide. [[16.10]] Most of them jumped off the Margaret Bridge, and the guy who jumped and went to the police got ten pengoes. Some jumped three times a week. But, dear friends, let us not expect that someone will go and get married from the fact that there is this discount. This is not the way to look at this discount. This discount should be considered to be a positive option for helping young people to leave, and I therefore support it on my part. So this is an opportunity that is good, but just not enough. I believe that this budget is the most important and the largest item, and what I would very much like not to postpone is the support and tax relief of families with two children. I believe this should not be postponed until 2016 [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: In 2015?]] This should start in 2015. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's right, that's right!]] To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, it doesn't start out that way, in the rarest case, sometimes, for God's sake, three children are born at the same time, but this is a very exception, even the two are an exception, but a child is born first, and somehow it has to be made a second. I therefore think it is a very, very good idea, an idea that will make a big difference in the population policy on which we have not been able to really swing, if we give the benefits for the second child. We need to find the resources for this, and I think it's in the budget. I might be able to mark a few, but I'm just such a cautious man now, I'm not marking it, but I think the government can find it. It follows that we can start the coming times in a completely different way. 2016 is somehow a promise, and, my dear ladies and gentlemen, especially my fellow members of the Government, the largest and strongest footstone of all governments is not just faith and hope, but trust. And I believe that it is not enough to gain trust once, it must be constantly strengthened. Therefore, we need to be able to ensure that from the second half of 2015 to come, let us say, that the first actions may be to a lesser extent in favour of families with two children. Let them go, because this means for young people that if this government says that it can and should not think of more children, and that it will not ruin your future and your life, on the contrary, the country will listen to you, I believe that this can start a positive process. I would like no one to think of anything else when I said this, but only that this kind of objective of this country should be a common goal that I believe can mobilise the greater part of the country and the better part of it. There may be something else that you may allow me to say, because I am a small farmer, after all, I asked for the floor today because not a single budget debate has passed since the last regime change, without a small farmer speaking. So, even if we had to fight for it, today I asked for a word and I got a word and I was able to express our basic thoughts. I've said little or nothing about agriculture, but is it always? Ceterum censeo? This is the subject that we usually bring up. Well, a short sentence. Hungarian agriculture today is indeed in a position, in terms of resources, in which it is perhaps never before. With regard to resources, Hungarian agriculture now has the opportunity to launch break-out points. Therefore, I believe that all those who have these resources have a huge responsibility, and that responsibility should be exercised in my belief that agriculture should not perform well in one place, in comparison with itself, compared to the previous year, but that it should be an outbreak point, after which Hungary can say that agriculture can be a driving sector of this Hungarian economy not once, not twice, but continuously. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary László Tasó wishes to speak. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-20-121	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to respond to an important sentence by Mr Kulcsár, in which he indicated the need for renovation of the road between Balmazújváros-Hajdúnánás. He said Hajdúböszörmény, but I'm sure, I believe, that he meant the old-fashioned road 3323. Let me tell you that in the coming months, in April, the program will be launched, which the Hungarian government will spend 50 billion HUF on renovating main roads 1, 2, 3, but this would no longer fit road 3323. However, I have just heard from the Road, and I am pleased to inform you that they are starting to renovate the road for HUF 500 million, which is 14 100 meters long and in really very bad condition. The previous budget, the sum of HUF 2.2 billion, really stands up to it, but we can't do it in a lot, in a wave. [[Zoltán Grimlock: 500 million, 14 kilometers? It's not a public jet, then.]] It would be important, but if I'm already hearing comments here, I'll tell you that the M35 construction route was very, very used, destroyed, let's say, and then it wasn't renovated. We're gonna make it up to you now, but we can't do it right away. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-123	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd have a few reactions, but in general, I'd like to say about the budget that there's going to be a very, very big problem here at the end of January. The very, very big problem will be because people will realize that a lot of money is coming out of funding, and that is financing small people and poor people, and this will be a huge problem in the village in the first place. Because what I see as a very dangerous game is that the government confronts the working man and the so-called aid man and wants to reduce what is right in its principles, the number of people on aid. Only one thing the government forgets is that in Hungary these two concepts are connected and they belong together. For every family of four with a minimum wage is entitled to a very, very wide range of support, and if someone enters into this system by saying that they will withdraw those subsidies from the municipalities, and they cannot pay them, which, by the way, will help the families of the otherwise working people to get out of poverty in some way, or in poverty, but to escape hunger is a very, very big responsibility. That is what I would like to say to my fellow Members who have not thought this through. It is not that only those who do not work receive aid in Hungary. It is not the only one who receives aid in Hungary. And it is also a big problem that if we do not follow the movement of prices at some level with the wage level and the minimum wage increase, then there will be a very, very serious problem, because we are not talking about unemployment poverty now, we are talking about employee poverty, and this is a very, very big problem, this is a particular problem in the village. To move to agriculture, there is now a situation where, if support policy does not change, many people will be in even more trouble, because a lot of people will be out of the system. It was here that the secretary of state, Mr István Nagy, said from his mouth that there should be support for professional livestock farming, and that there would be prizes for animals, in addition to which it was said that subsidies would be withdrawn from larger holdings and that they would be given for rural development purposes. There is a huge contradiction between the two things. Is Hungary's genetic best three enterprises currently Mezőhegyes, Hódmezővásárhely and Komárom? within five years, they will lose all their land, and let's say about a thousand people will be on the street in relation to these three groups of companies. That's too bad. Yes, it is a big problem, because, compared to the fact that in the middle of the 1980s there were already computerized pig feedings in Hungary, we started feeding again with a bucket. This isn't gonna end well. That's what I'd do to protect everyone. The other: Minister of State Rétvári said that all small settlements will be covered by the Internet. Yeah, there's gas everywhere, but it's not wired? And I'm afraid if these income conditions remain, there won't be anyone to use it because they can't. You should add that free internet, then I think there's something in that. But this was not the case, and there was even a question of taxation in this regard, for which the people went out into the street. We have heard serious lectures here, unfortunately my colleague Pócs, Mr Font, has left. János Pócs was very prepared, or he was well described with the menu of the next support programme, the EU support programme, which will make him a huge success on winter evenings and at feathering and corn crumbling. But there is only one big problem: this system cannot pay for the budget cycle. [[16.20]] In case you didn't know, fellow Members, they took the second degree from the MVH and divided it between two ministries. This debate is still taking place today, with 6,000 second-degree cases currently in the two ministries. The six thousand cases have been in place since July, since then, and there is no extension in these applications, ladies and gentlemen. This means that a hundred billion-dollar amount of money will be trapped in this current budget programme. Balázs, I'm telling you, you should pay attention to this, because court decisions are not enforced by not finding the document. We should return the second degree to the MVH very, very quickly, because it's going to be a terrible problem. So you're gonna have to put it back where it can be arranged because it's not gonna be settled in the Prime Minister's Office or in the Ministry of Rural Development? Or now not even the Ministry of Rural Development, but the Ministry of Agriculture. That's the big problem. The budget number also shows that the government is not counting only on direct payments next year. Ladies and gentlemen, there is HUF 47 billion in non-direct EU support. Do you know how zero that is, how much is there? 200-300 billion forints, now 47 billion forints. This means that there is no institutional system, no IT system, but there is a huge chaos. I think if you don't take this seriously, there will be huge problems here. We heard hymns here this afternoon. There's money, I'd like to tell you, isn't there little? Is there an area where there isn't, I'll talk about it? But who's gonna pay for it? Who can pay for the crippled office where the minister's most important case was to move the county office from Szeged to Hódmezővásárhely? I don't think it's his most important case, it shouldn't be that, it should be tidy, but very quickly. The other is that the government does not comply with its own decision in agriculture. Here it was said that money will be transferred, a lot of people have said that HUF 200 billion will be spent in seven years on major sectors in sensitive employment. I would like to indicate that this is the case at 143/2014. The government decision, which was issued on 30 July, could not be implemented in the first year. Administrator: Mihály Varga? It's written right here. Does this mean that, to be precise, there must be HUF 82.5 billion in national direct subsidies? Current expenses, income subsidies, so it's written, is this the national register of agriculture? On the budget line, there is HUF 77.7 billion. I ask you how seriously you can take the promise of a government that doesn't implement its own decision, and that's how the minister used it to hack the country to see how good it's gonna be, because how much money it's gonna be for the industry. The other: sustainability was also mentioned here. There will be no agri-environmental support in 2015. That's about $40 billion in losses, but that's not really the problem, but the problem is that we've been working on for ten years. 'Cause it's, like, ten-year-old now? It stops now, and maybe, with about half the money, it will restart in 2016. This is exactly the same as Kishantos: they were tortured to become organic farms for 20 years, and then they took the land away from them with a feather stroke. You shouldn't be doing this. I know this is difficult, because it will end in August this year, but nothing would have forbidden the government to carry on this programme from national support and then draw this money from the Union. We've done a lot of these things, I'd like to tell you, a lot of them, that we've started programs at our own risk, that we've overtaken programs, see SAPARD and the others, we've managed to spend them all. Now Hungary will be ashamed that the current programme will not be able to pay the money, and the money will remain in the EU. We can't be that stupid, I guess. Do milk producers want to demonstrate? Can I hear you now? To do something about the import. Instead of doing something with the world record VAT and trying to curb corruption, we are adding over half of the Hungarian retail food turnover to a 6-percent special tax. This means that the circle that received this will be forced to raise its price; it is a VAT. Even though the Prime Minister says it is not, read today's economic analyses: they are all talking about sales-type taxes, because they are revenue-related. That'll take half the retail networks to waste, and then in two years, they'll ban them out of the country. Genius scoundrel, I can't say anything else. This is a brilliant villain, because the one who is not affected is going to raise the price by 4-5 percent? And he's gonna be a good boy because he's not six percent? It'll just be a clear profit for him. This is called, among other things, CBA. This should not be done, ladies and gentlemen, so openly we should not carry out state corruption, because it is also corruption if the state itself makes laws in the interests of one company with its own instruments; this is what it is all about. It is not only corruption to put money in your pocket, but also to make it impossible for a company to abuse the power of public authorities. That's what we're talking about here, with legal authority. With legal authority! Now, I wouldn't recommend that. So what's the answer to that? It has been said here in the tax debate that very serious people have said yes, but the goat's VAT has been reduced, ladies and gentlemen? Yes, and there will be even less transaction fees for card usage. Now, in the village, does that mean? Did I tell you the other day? To put it mildly, on the back of a five-percent goat, you'll be able to pull down the credit card. I think that's a frivolous answer, because in those circles where there's VAT cuts now? This whole goat is alive, the half goat, the whole sheep, the whole sheep, the whole cattle and the quartered cattle; now, the first four certainly do not generate any traffic, only exports, and there is no VAT. The second generates, but there's no way that the cattle have VAT fraud, because it's a unique number of earpieces, not by putting the ear number on it when we cut it off like the pigs and the others. If someone thinks this is going to solve the problem, then they're in a huge mistake because they're definitely not going to solve it. And VAT fraud will not be solved by the $8 billion development that takes place under rather vague circumstances. A system organizer sent me the correspondence he sent to the Prime Minister and Mihály Varga, in which he has been offering a completely identical system since 2011, almost with a Ctrl+C and Ctrl+V in the tax annex to the budget, and he wouldn't have asked for 8 billion for it. I'll be very curious to know whose business this story is going to be, but it's not gonna catch the VAT fraud. The only way to stop VAT fraud is to lower the VAT in sensitive circles; there is no other chance, nothing. This is just like the oil-blowning: all the tricks could be invented, but until the gas oil and the fuel oil were at a price, they cheated with it. That's exactly what it's gonna be like, until you go down in the decoy circle? High volume, high turnover? I'm sure that's what's gonna happen until then. Now business and industry are organized, and there are very, very high circles in this, there are very serious storage bases in Szeged and Budaörs. We wrote that down, and we had questions about it, and nobody seems to care. No one cares; I think we should deal with it. I also said we'd help you with a few things. For example, will we help you to get this 30 billion forint away from the stores after all? Which we don't agree with, because that means a food price increase? I want you to go to the Food Safety Agency. In government offices, stepdaughters are the peasant world. I know how far the institutional circle passed from agriculture: they immediately took away the cars, reduced the mileage by half, did not raise the salary. Should I list it? Then what's the guarantee that if this money goes there, it goes there? There's a guarantee for that when the Nebih gets it. We just raised it by $30 billion. I would like to say one thing to Sándor Font about the undivided community, because here he was very proud to report that his award has been increased ten times this year. But they spent 250 billion on it, Congressman, just like we used to. Because if you don't have human resources, you can put 20 billion in there, but you won't be able to spend it. Look at how much has gone, how much has been spent out of 3 billion. 270 million. We've rewritten this, and we said we'd rather have an NFA fund to buy land in front of the speculators, because they didn't make any money, so I'd like to signal it. All this time, it's been saying that NFA will stop speculation buying land. What if you can't afford it? That's where we put the source. So, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, is there a situation in agriculture that there are indisputable resources, much more? Did Béla Turi-Kovács tell you here before? But it's not as much as it used to be, because it's only going to be 60,000 forints per hectare, not 70,000. [[16.30]] So they weren't right to increase funding. They may grow in seven years if I multiply seven years by 60,000 compared to the previous seven years, but that's not how the peasants live it. He'll live by getting 70 grand so far, now he's gonna get 60. From now on, it's too bad to feed, because it's gonna come out on the first reference. So I'm asking you to think about this, but for the first time, the institutional system, because without it, no one here is going to get a penny, and it's going to be a terrible problem, a terrible problem, and it's all going to be the responsibility of this government. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-20-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are now reactions from the government. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State, István Simicskó, of the Ministry of Human Resources. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the previous comments in the field of sport. I would like to say here in front of this House and to confirm the consciousness that we all believe that sport is the nation's core value, and we know that sport raises a lot of things, we could also say that it is a key to the way society works, so we can see a lot of things through sport, and it is practically a key to raising healthy generations. That is why I would like to report to this House that, in this spirit, we have presented this budget to this House; the sport chapter may best be described as a sport-friendly budget, but I could say this about the whole budget, that it is a friendly budget, because it is friendly for families and for all of us. With regard to support in 2015, HUF 118.8 billion is planned, which represents a 20.7 percent increase in the sport sector because it is an important area because it is a strategic sector and because it is an important tool for raising healthy generations. We have set three important objectives, which I think can be supported by everyone. Perhaps the first and most important goal is to have as many Hungarian children as possible play sports in Hungary. Based on recent years, we can also see the growth that we can safely show that we are on the right track, as the number of children who have been certified as athletes has increased by 100,000, thanks to the work of the last three years, and the number of adult athletes has increased from 5 percent to 15 percent, which is also a significant, dynamic growth, the greatest increase in athletes in the EU. Another important goal was to bring as many sporting events and international sporting events as possible to Hungary, so that Hungarian viewers can join Hungary and see Hungarian and foreign athletes, as well as our Hungarian athletes in a noble fight. In this respect, HUF 672 million is available in next year's budget in the sport sector. I would like to say that we have no less plans than to bring 41 international sporting events to Hungary in 2015, such as the Women's Basketball-Europe Championship, and we will have a number of such events for our country and through it our prestige, our appreciation and attention to Hungary. The third important objective is, and this is reflected in the budget, as are the previous two objectives, the development of facilities, the development of sports facilities. I would like to say that we would like to continue the school-building program, we would like to continue the gym building program, we would like to renovate the tourist houses and much more, so that it is possible for our children everywhere to play sports, to play sports under cultural conditions, so that they can get to know themselves through sports. As Marai puts it, the greatest challenge of life, the greatest journey when we get to know ourselves, it is important for our children to raise them through sport and, of course, to self-esteem. Finally, I would like to say that the 16 flagship sports development programmes are still strongly supported by the budget, we strongly support the scholarship of sports stars, the appreciation of coaches and athletes, and we would also like to emphasise the preparations for the Olympics in this budget. Thus, I think it is not a question that we also have to complete the National Olympic Centre and build and transform and modernise it. It is our great goal, and this is reflected in the budget, so that we can become an athletic nation from a sport-loving nation, and the athletic nation is not only healthy in its physicality, but also in its spirituality, and it holds this important value, which can be expressed through sport in such a way that fair play, that is to say, fair behavior among ourselves, even between human relations, regardless of party standing. I think it is very, very important for this to be a sporting Parliament and to support this sport-friendly budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó State Secretary, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the speech of the members of the government is taking place from the time frame of the pro-government faction. So, if a member of the government speaks, regardless of whether the KDNP has transferred its timeframe to the Fidesz Group, did State Secretary Simicskó speak out of Fidesz' time frame? And he will, if he asks for a word. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, Secretary of State, of the Ministry of Agriculture.
u2014-11-20-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to make a brief comment, saving the time of the faction, joining Secretary of State Simicskó. In the spirit of sport, I do not rate the comments on agriculture in front of me, but I would just like to remind you of a few things and of the current budget. I would like to remind everyone that, between 2002 and 2010, in the Gyurcsány-Bajna era, what happened to agriculture was that farmers were poor, the food economy was vulnerable to multinational interests and that the country's competitiveness was abolished. If you look, fellow Members, on both sides, at the budget that is now being discussed, there are subsidies in this budget that support livestock production, fruit and vegetables production, processing of food materials, all of which are aids [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's all been done before! All of them!]] , all support that can help the competitiveness of the countryside, create jobs, provide young people with a living space in the countryside, and I think that it is in the interests not only of rural settlements, but also of the whole country, the whole nation, that Hungarian agriculture and the Hungarian countryside should be strong. Allow me to add one more thought: this afternoon, the amendment of the food chain inspection fee, on which we voted among the tax laws, has been mentioned several times. I would like to make it clear once again that anyone who claims that the VAT on food is increasing is misleading people, if I want to put it another way, is not telling the truth. The amendment to the food chain inspection fee is about increasing the contribution of those with higher turnover to food chain security. This is also in the interest of all decent operators in the food chain, producers, processors, traders and consumers, as this amount is intended to ensure that we can withdraw from the market those things that are harmful to health, called unhealthy food, which endanger Hungarian families, and that the whole measure is designed to ensure that all Hungarian families have healthy, safe, high-quality food on their table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP Group.
u2014-11-20-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I spoke about education, Secretary Retvári said some strange things in his reply. I'd like to respond to these, simply because you're trying to protect the indefensible. We have claimed that practically what we have here is a budget for austerity in terms of education. Why do I say that? Because if I look at the budget or even the four-year cycle, if it was taken away from it by HUF 50 billion and then increased by 1 billion in this reduced budget, then it simply cannot be said that this would be a benefit that, speaking of higher education, it was on a course that is developing, which is progressing. The figures are quite simply saying the opposite, because we are in the budget debate, I think that is quite relevant. If we look at this process in the longer term, we see that ten years ago about 6 per cent of GDP was spent on this, so 6 per cent of GDP was spent on education. Today, this amount is well below 5%, moving towards 4.5 percent. This means, in effect, that the share of the amount spent on education has decreased by 20 percent. This is sad enough, but you have to face it, because you would still have the opportunity, even on the basis of our amendments, to increase this amount, but instead, Mr Secretary of State, you have made an argument that is no longer here to try to make it impossible, so you argue against the man, twisting his words, because it is quite simply possible to call what has been said here. [[16.40]] By the way, I would refer to the fact that for the first time since 90, there has been no educational committee to pass it on to the opposition. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the management of the cultural committee. It's all about making education impossible.
u2014-11-20-130	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, submitted a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Here I would like to respond to the speeches on sport, in particular to the speech by Robert Simon. I have to say that I agree with about 90 percent of what Mr Simon said, and Jobbik has also fully supported the fact that we are operating sport as a strategic sector, because sport has such positive effects on other areas, starting with health, on everything that must be supported. And the results have been made here. But the important thing is that neither István Simicskó nor you have talked about the branch of sport that the government spends most of their money on in recent years, and you are going to invest most in football, because in vain, so much money is invested in football, it doesn't bring back the money invested in football and it doesn't produce the results that would be expected. Why don't you do it? It does not produce because it is entrusted to a football club that is unfit to use this vast amount of money to benefit this sport. There was talk about the academic system. Indeed, in other sports, the academic system functions normally. Here, where billions enter the academy system, it was constantly heard that the academys would make the desired change. They've got it. I'll report it. The first academy support team to emerge from the academies, the U19 team, in a domestic environment behind Azerbaijan, could not fight to make it to the European Championship. And there's more to it. We would like to ask the government that until the Hungarian Football Association can renew both professionally and morally, they should not give him money, because the money thrown out of the window. The Dárdai case has shown very well now what Hungarian football needs: young, manager-type, straight and honest people, such as Pál Dárdai, who does not speak ill; stands up, tells us what problems are, and how to change them. We need the same people in the Hungarian Football Association, not 20 years ago. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] there sits a totum fact, who have all the results (The President bells.) Without it, they can raise huge money and trust them with billions of dollars. (The president's ringing. ) Please consider this. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-20-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr István Simicskó State Secretary has made a statement. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Just one sentence or a few sentences, allow me. There is much to talk about soccer, obviously this is not the place, we are talking about the budget, we are having a general debate on the budget, but I would like to say some numbers. In football, 250,000 replacements are of age, most of them children and young people play sports, so this is a significant number of certified athletes, so it's 250,000. It's a growing number. Thanks, among other things, to the Tao system, the possibility of a corporate income tax discount, this type of support goes to football, so corporate profit tax companies decide to give it to the football association, which distributes it to various important programs, career building and much more. Indeed, the government supports replacement programmes, with HUF 1.7 billion in next year's budget, such as supporting the Bozsik programme. I think it's a good program, a Europe-famous supply program, by the way. Most of the money goes to the Olympic centers, just so that our athletes can prepare for other sports and perform successfully in the Olympics. It's the determining money. In fact, the 16 flagship sports, let's say, the athletic association will receive some HUF 18 billion of state funding by 2020, precisely because it is a basic sport, precisely because we want the diversity of athletics to spread among our children, and we would like to launch school sports recruitment programs to increase the supply base for these 16 sports. Our aim is to ensure that by 2018, some 500 000 children will be able to play sports as certified athletes in all fine sports such as those that still give our children the opportunity to improve their self-knowledge and to live up to success. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-11-20-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, would like to comment on sport, because we often have to wash together the shortcomings of education and employment through sport. I think that when Mr Secretary of State talks about how important it is whether it is replacement or children's sport, we must add that in this budget, however, we do not see how sports schools will work, because the deficiency that has been in front of us for decades should have been actively replaced over the past four to five years. You have not done this, and on the contrary, you have dismantled the sports school system that worked. I am thinking, first of all, that the sports of poor children were mostly martial sports, and if we know that, then we do not see what would have been built in the past period outside the six booths. Although I would add, those sports academys can't really work either, because they don't get the resources they really can work with at a sufficient rate. This, by the way, was obtained from official feedback, where I was asked to intervene to receive the resources that the government had promised but did not receive. Therefore, I think that the government has a responsibility to make the money that was available to it in 2014, whether for the boxing academies or for other sports, on time and on time, and on time, to get it to plan for the next period. So I think it is important that sports school systems are built that can give young people an opportunity that they cannot draw very much from at home or from other means. I think I still can't agree with the construction of stadiums, because instead of building stadiums, I think it's more important to fund children's sports and re-sports, because look around, wherever we look, we see everywhere that these sports clubs are empty, so they should be supported rather than built stadiums. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have the speeches that have been announced. I give the floor to Congressman Károly Panczél, within the time frame available, 6 minutes 44 seconds. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to comment on the budget from a national political point of view, which is due to the fact that there is a budgetary debate on the one hand, but mostly to the fact that yesterday the Diaspora Council held a meeting in Budapest, and now the Hungarian Permanent Conference is meeting here in Parliament. Hungarians in the motherland can never be complete without our fellow nations living beyond our borders, and it is important for them to have a country of values and economically strong, sovereign motherland behind them. The draft law on Hungary's 2015 budget also contains a number of chapters that provide financial comfort for our renewed national policy goals in 2010. The support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund is of particular importance to the Government of Hungary. The Bethlen Gábor Fund provides cover for the mutual understanding of Hungarian communities living here and beyond our borders, for the presentation of the most important examples of national performance, and for the operation of the House of Hungarians, which aims to promote research into national politics and Hungarians. The Bethlen Gábor Fund also supports the prosperity, material and spiritual growth, the preservation of his language and culture, and the multifaceted relationship with the motherland of Hungarians across the border. The proposed appropriations of the Fund in 2015 will increase by 2.7 percent compared to last year's budget figures. This chapter also includes the appropriation for education and training grants, which will be HUF 4 billion to HUF 820 million next year; this amount will be used to support the education, education and purchase of textbooks and teaching tools for children in preschools, primary and secondary education institutions in neighbouring countries, as well as children studying in Hungarian or in Hungarian culture. The Bethlen Gábor Fund also includes the two main bastions of Hungarian higher education, the II. Ferenc Rákóczi Hungarian Academy of Transcarpathia and the Hungarian University of Transylvania Sapientia. The sub-heading entitled Support for National Institutions and Programmes, which includes the funds to be spent on the two higher education institutions, can manage 300 million forints more in 2015 than this year's support for the sub-heading will increase from HUF 3 billion to HUF 4 billion to HUF 126 million. [[16.50]] In 2015, programmes to help and strengthen the Hungarianness of diaspora will continue. The Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, which was announced in 2013 by the State Secretary for National Policy, aims to strengthen the sense of belonging, to develop Hungarian language learning, to boost relations with Hungary and to strengthen Hungarian cultural organizations. Within the framework of the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, about 100 young people on five continents will soon be able to start their work in addition to the above-mentioned commitments, and they will also have the task of helping to acquire citizenship in the diaspora. Next year's budget allocated HUF 1 billion for this purpose. The Mikes Kelemen programme was launched by the third meeting of the Hungarian Diaspora Council last year. The Mikes Kelemen programme operates 13 collection points in seven countries and the cultural values of the Hungarian diaspora? Legacy, libraries? He's trying to save her. The books and the legacys on the collection points are evaluated by the staff of the National Széchényi Library, the pieces of special value will be added to the library, the rest will be sent to the Hungarian schools in the Carpathian Basin. In the next year's budget, 500 million forints were allocated for this purpose. It is also important to mention the Julian programme for documenting the material values created by the Hungarian Diaspora. Support for cross-border rural development is also of particular importance for the mother country. Accordingly, the budget in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture provides a financial background to help the programmes of Hungarian farmers' organisations across the border. Among other tasks are the operation of the villager network, participation in exhibitions, trainings and professional conferences in Hungary and the organisation of agricultural development programmes. The Ministry of Human Resources provides a chapter on the income supplement for religious persons serving in the congregations of sporadic settlements abroad in Hungarian, as well as additional support for their national preservation activities. Indeed, there is no Hungarian community across the border where children of Hungarian families do not have the opportunity to learn Hungarian language in school frameworks. So in such cases, the minister, father, minister, gives the local children training, not regretting patience, time, and love. In the coming year, HUF 210 million has been planned for this purpose and HUF 500 million is planned for the next thematic year, the year of vocational training, to be launched in 2015. Dear House, Three and a half years ago, we adopted our new Fundamental Law, one of the most important things of which is that Hungary is responsible for Hungarians across the border. I believe that the amounts earmarked for national policy purposes will also serve this well in the year ahead. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-138	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the television broadcasting time lasts until 5 p.m., and that the timeframes in the previously unused broadcast time are added to the time frame beyond broadcasting time. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group.
u2014-11-20-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that Mr Secretary of State has come back, because I would like to be the first to respond to his earlier speech. From May 2010, almost every session, every budget and every serious debate, we get the accusations that Jobbik is just talking about order, that Jobbik demands order, demands legality, but never supports those proposals. I would like to briefly disprove and clarify this. On the one hand, we never normally support salad laws, because they are full of a lot of insufferable elements, and the bulk or bulk of the Btk tightenings, the vast majority of which were all presented to this House in the form of salad law. Of course, it was unsuitable for us, together with many, many tax burdens, while, by the way, we have always supported them both at the committee stage and at the various separate votes. So much for this briefly, and I hope we don't have to argue about it anymore, and it's clear to everyone. What has been said in the previous speeches on law enforcement in the budget, either on the part of the ruling parties or from the mouth of the pro-government representatives, to some extent we agree with that. Indeed, it is undisputed that the police finally received a more serious source after four years of delay, and can indeed farm with a surplus of billions. I do not want to criticise this part, but I would like to draw attention to what we have done many times with Mr. Secretary of State, so that despite the fact that we are raising the budgetary resources, no matter how many policemen we invite? It's all necessary and important, I'd like to underline it here, too? However, until there is a new police law, they will not have an effective job, there will be many, many unclear questions, which will make it impossible for patrolmen or policemen to act properly or with insufficient force in some cases, so life in more and more settlements in Hungary will be unlivable. And here it would also be a key issue that you do not like to talk about, that, rather than raising the threshold of a certain offence, it would be necessary to reduce it very, very drastically, to a minimum, to a tenth, in order to really eliminate the crimes against small assets most irritating to Hungarian society, and to act effectively against them, because the penalty for the offence is not sufficient, it is not dissuasive, and it is often irrecoverable, precisely against those who commit them. I think that the effectiveness of the police should best be started with a new police law, and then we could talk about either their training or their driver's licenses or many, many, many, many, outdated legal passages that we do not think will meet the challenges of 2014. By the way, I was pleased to hear that the appropriate authorities have already considered how and how the police law currently in force should be changed. At the same time that bothers me more? and once again, I am very pleased that the police budgetary framework has received substantial support compared to previous years, is this a step forward? At the same time, what still bothers me and remains incomprehensible to me is a very large budget of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, especially in terms of personal benefits. If I take it now it's the Information Office, so it's the Hungarian intelligence? In addition to Snowden affairs and similar events, isn't it completely irrelevant what we do and how we do it? You'll get $11.8 billion, the Constitutional Protection Office, or counterintelligence will get 6.2 billion, the Military National Security Service will get 10.9 billion, and the Counter-Terrorism Center will get 12.3 billion. And what does that mean? It is possible to compare with the police, if we break their budget down to the 50,000 police: as long as the thousand-man TEK receives a $7.2 billion salary for personal benefits, the 50,000 police will have 166 billion, and if we break it down for one, it is clear what level they are still under, I do not want to say that they are humiliated by the police personnel, but I think that there is an existential burn and earth difference between the two. But it wouldn't be a problem in our eyes if the Counter-Terrorism Center clearly carried out tasks that are actually related to terrorism. But let me add that this is not a problem, but let us be clear that there is no terrorism in Hungary at all, thanks to God! That's why the Counter-Terrorism Center doesn't understand its own existence. There are no religious fundamentalist groups here that would commit such attacks, not shoot politicians, even though I know that there is a demand for it from a lot of social backgrounds, and we get it in order, whether they are opposition or pro-government representatives. [[Dr. Károly Kontra: Please, Mr. President, order him to order order order.]] Of course I'm not saying what I think.
u2014-11-20-140	Congressman, about the need, I'm asking you to tolerate me.
u2014-11-20-141	Okay, I get it, all right. [[17.00]] There is no such thing as any claim I have indicated, but what we say, in residential forums so many times, I have suggested. So, there are absolutely no acts of terrorism that would otherwise justify the existence of the Counter-Terrorism Center at this level. At the same time, I would like to add that this year's budget of the Counter-Terrorism Centre or 2015 has very serious funds for further investment and development. The fact is, they have been given everything from Boeing to an armored team transport since we had the opportunity to see them at the committee meeting in the previous cycle. I think that, in a subtle way, they are too sapphirungated, and again, thank God, their existence in Hungary is not justified at all. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So, I think that this should definitely be overrated, and these funds, or a significant part of these funds, could be transferred to modernisation, or even to facilitate everyday tasks, such as the police or the fire department, or to prison salaries, or even to expand the additional assets of the Civil Guard. Once again, which is a problem with the police, I would add that it still hasn't solved a lot of settlements. I don't want to point out how many places there are no police stations anymore, but we really need them. We've talked about this a lot, and I think we're gonna talk about it a lot. And the district trustee system doesn't work ideally either. So the number of settlements a district commissioner sometimes has within a kilometer centre is about enough to run through the settlements during a service period, go to the local government, do one or two institutions, do its bureaucratic tasks, and it's done. But unfortunately, the presence on the street at the bulk of rural settlements has not been resolved. And it makes the problem even more difficult, and now I'm telling you what I've seen from district agents, that in a lot of cases, we run out of fuel in the second, third week of that month, and they can't refuel. Or, in many cases, the patrol car is fueled out of its own pocket. As long as such elementary errors are working, and unfortunately, this is a reality, I am not making this up, I am not reading it on the Internet, but I am trying to convey to you here, through my personal experience and personal complaints, that these fundamental issues should be resolved, these basic conditions should be ensured in order to talk about real order in Hungary. Because the infringement threshold can be increased, statistics can be cosmetics; I think the first and most important thing is that Hungarian citizens living in rural areas or in cities or in the capital have a subjective sense of security. If you see a street patrol or a patrol car, don't think about why you're gonna punish me as a Pavlovi reflex, but remember, "Wow, it's good that you're here, 'cause that makes me safe." I think that this should finally create the minimum conditions for a new police law, or for basic fuel and other assets. Everything else comes after him. However, once again, I am glad that after four years, there is finally a more serious amount available to the police next year. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, I would like to inform you that our television broadcast is over. Some factions didn't use the entire time, so our colleagues in the technical box did, as I can see, the correction. So we'll get back to work. I am now giving the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to what Mr Adam Mirkóczki said. First of all, I would like to refer to the debate raised in the first part of your speech, and I would like to record it, because we can tell you in detail how many laws, how many law enforcement laws, independent laws that support and facilitate order have not been voted on. That's available, that's a fact. I always draw your attention to the fact that if they really call for order and want order, then this two - faced attitude might be worth reviewing. You know, what you're doing isn't credible unless you continue with the current practice. As for the last four years, I have also said in yesterday's part of the debate, I may have referred to it today, and it can be said that as a result of the efforts of the past four years, people today live in Hungary more safely than in 2010. I think we can agree on that, Congressman. This is due to the adoption of strong laws, due to the adoption of budgetary laws, due to the measures taken by the government and Parliament to create, create a legal background for the police, relationships that stabilise the personnel. In other words, at the age of 40, you cannot leave the police and the professional staff to retire, give adequate recognition to the staff, ensure the budgetary background so that these institutions, including the police, have a budgetary background that allows stable, balanced operation, ensures technical conditions, organisational and personnel conditions. I will give you the keyword here, which will always make you nervous, that we have increased the number of police officers by 3500, and today we can say that the police have given the number of police to carry out the task that all Hungarian citizens expect of the police today. As far as your proposal is concerned, that we need a new police law, I believe that the current police law is also capable of defining those tasks, setting out the framework, setting out and setting out the objectives that the police, the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the National Defence Service, are required to set the fundamental pillar of Hungarian law enforcement, so we can expect these organisations to do so. Obviously, this statement has been proven by the past period. Let me rebut your statement on the low level of public police presence. Just yesterday, in response to several speakers, I said that the increased police presence and increased control of the five counties in East Hungary started on 25 September 2013, which the government extended to the entire territory of the country on 1 July this year, i.e. 19 counties and Budapest. Allow me to give you some data, some results on this. In the area of the 19 counties, 150,408 people completed the task with 23,730,973 kilometers of running time during 1 188,673 service hours. In doing so, 3622 people were apprehended, out of which 1675 were apprehended for a high-profile crime, 3033 for burglary and 874 for the current arrest warrant. The number of productions is 9148, of which 3,451 were suspected of committing a crime, and 1712 were taken against sampling. The number of criminal offences reported against 2724 persons is 15 215, of which 1785 cases of misdemeanor offences against property were committed in 1272 cases by the police to provide some data. I would also like to say that, all along, there has been close cooperation with the leadership of the local authorities concerned, with mayors, councils, with their requests and demands, and with the increased importance of police personnel, for which I am thanking you. These are data from 1 July to 30 September. I also said that the resources for this will be about HUF 6 billion by the end of the year in terms of increased police presence. [[17.10]] So I would like to say that these are the results that the police have achieved, and I would like to thank you for that. What is very important in terms of the 2015 budget, which you have acknowledged is that we will increase the financing of the police by HUF 16 billion, which includes a number of things, including the payment of an additional allowance of HUF 10 thousand for officers and ensigns. It is very important that it is not in this BM chapter, but in the section of the Prime Minister's Office, Section XI. In Chapter III, the allocation of provisions includes HUF 44 billion between the various payments to finance the armed and police careers, the main point being that, from 1 July 2015, police officers, firefighters, disaster control officers, Bvs and professional service providers will receive an average salary increase of 30 per cent from the BM institutions. The course of life continues, and more elements are added, but this is concrete, if Parliament adopts this bill, which I ask everyone to support, then this will be achieved. And as far as the Counter-Terrorism Center is concerned, the criticism you made about the Counter-Terrorism Center... [[To the intervention of Adam Mirkóczki:]] Yes, you can. He said we should take these money somewhere else. [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] Do I think that since the start of the operation on 1 September 2010, TEK has started? I would like to say that you are either the Counter-Terrorism Centre - you have demonstrated that you can perform and perform effectively the tasks for which you have been created. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I believe that the dissipation of Hungary's absence of acts of terrorism, there is no threat of terrorism, thank God and thanks to the operation of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, because the law of the police, the XXXIV of 1994. Act No 295/2010 and Government Decree No 295/2010 on the appointment of a counter-terrorism organisation define their duties, carry out national jurisdiction to prevent, detect, abort other crimes committed in connection with a terrorist offence, a criminal offence, the capture of dangerous criminals, the capture of armed criminals, and the cessation of violent crimes against other persons at the request of the investigating authorities, the capture of persons in a state of self or public danger. The operation of the TEK takes place in public, and Parliament's committees are the public guarantee that any Member can obtain appropriate information on this. I think that TEK's personnel deserve to be thanked here in the public session of Parliament for their service, and I think that they certainly deserve this. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the basis of what has been put forward, I ask you and your group to support the adoption of the 2015 budget by listening to these arguments, because this may validate your intention to say that it is important for you to strengthen order and public security. The sources and conditions of this are set out in this bill, so I ask you and this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Ferenc Hirt, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-145	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you may get used to me, in the debate on budgets, I usually speak about people with disabilities, and I plan to do so now, but I did not intend to be critical of the opposition at the beginning of my speech, but I cannot stop some things. On the part of Jobbik and LMP, I can accept that the budget is declared tragic, catastrophic and with other indicators practically throughout the day and during yesterday, because they have not yet been lucky enough to put a budget together in government, a budget that has to be stopped all year round, and must be able to keep the deficit at the end of the year. So with this, I'd like to close all the criticisms from LMP and Jobbik that I just don't think are fair. On the part of the MSZ, things have been said that I have to respond to. During yesterday, our colleague Sándor Burány, on behalf of the Socialist Party, in connection with the Vida Ildikó case, is constantly saying that they are asking for an interpreter. Sándor Burány stood on the platform and also asked for an interpreter for the Fidesz MEPs. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have a deaf fellow Member among us; do I not think it is appropriate? And then I put it mildly? It's rude to use these adjectives, make jokes about it, make fun of it. Think of something else about Ildikó Vida, so let us ask for an interpreter and the Fidesz people don't understand. I think we should forget about that. On the part of the socialists, it also hurts that they would be pleased and almost wish that the European Union would withdraw development resources from us. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: When did we say that? Let's hear it. ? Interview from Fidesz: Many times!]] Yeah. Congressman, look back at the transmission, will you? Okay? [[Intercoms. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] So they want the European Union to withdraw its funds. They want the economic growth that has finally started to shrink, which I think is a shame, by the way, that such representatives are sitting in the House of Hungary. István Széchenyi had a saying, and I think you should take it to heart:. It is very difficult to be Hungarian, but not impossible. I think you should try it, you might have a bigger success in the coming days, by the way. But on the subject of my speech: as a representative of the Paks constituency, have I been happy to experience and see that on the budget line? Can I say that? I am delighted to see that Paks II, the expansion of the nuclear power plant, has been published for more than HUF 28 billion. The Paksians, the small region and the county are looking forward to this investment. We expect a lot of jobs from him. Entrepreneurs and the general public are delighted that Paks II is finally starting. It is true that it is only on the part of planning and site inspection, but it is now 28 billion HUF in next year's budget. Then, in terms of supporting umbrella organisations for people with disabilities and other lines, we can find 900 million forints here, as regards the purchase of motor vehicles, the new vehicles and the relatively young used cars. Forint 208 million to support advocacy organisations and opportunities programmes for people with disabilities; forint 136 million to support the National Association for the Protection of Interests of the People with Mental Disabilities and Their Helpers; forint 173 million to support the National Association of the Deaf and Big Hearers and its umbrella organization in the following year. The National Association of the Association of Disabled People will receive 168 million forints. Next year's budget support for the National Association of Hungarian Blind and Sensitives will reflect 173 million HUF. The National Sport, Cultural and Interest Protection Association of Hungarian Organ transplants will receive HUF 20 million. The National Association of Autists with HUF 52.5 million, the Autism Foundation with HUF 30.8 million, the National Association of Siketvak? Now you're an association? It's 21 million forints in next year's budget. The National Association of Social Organisations and Foundations serving intellectually damaged persons will be supported by HUF 41.5 million, with more than HUF 2 billion in social institutional employment next year. And what is very important is that support for the employment of workers with disabilities amounts to nearly 30 billion, which is not small. And I was pleased to see the increase in disability benefits, blind people's personal benefits from 31.5 billion to almost 34 billion forints. As a rural representative, I was also pleased to see that the school building programme and the gym building programme continue. This is a huge thing in the country. Unfortunately, even at district level, there are facilities where students, young people can carry out sports and development programmes in winter. Here, each line is worth HUF 3 billion. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[17.20]]
u2014-11-20-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Teleki, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-11-20-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to say one thought about the words of Congressman Ferenc Hirt: the Hungarian Socialist Party has constantly said that the government must politicalise, especially in the last five years, so that we can receive EU funds; and many times we have found that there were indeed signs of warning from the EU to withdraw funds if they did not use them as they should have been. So the Hungarian Socialist Party was constantly trying to draw all the funds that appear in various operational programmes. So I think that the Hungarian Socialist Party should be accused of this, that we want these funds to be blocked, we cannot. I would like to turn to the budget, which is our topic. One of the main objectives of the budget is to estimate how the differences between the educational equality of young people living in the country and the social context have evolved from the 2015 sources. In the 2015 budget, it can be seen that the financial budget does not use the development of society, and I could also say that it will rather ruin it. Based on what? You can see and see that we talked a lot about education yesterday, and we talked a lot about it today, and when we say that there are only withdrawals from higher education in a very small amount, I think we should talk about what is going on with the underprivileged population from cradle to college. They are not given any chance to find break-out points, because, when you look at the kindergarten you mentioned today, how important it is that kindergarten care starts from the age of three, I think it is very important, and I think that I can welcome it, but I do not see on the other side where the number of seats could be increased. 'Cause there's no similar amount in the budget of how they can expand the number of seats so that if all parents take their children to kindergarten, then how will the seats be secured? This doesn't have the legs you can see from 2015 or 2016. From now on, my question is how to make a budget with one foot inside, the children in kindergarten, and on the other side the funding side is not opened where the seats will come from. But it's also true for elementary school students that if we project it. I have said so many times, and I would like to emphasise in particular that you have, in recent times, silenced the transparency of scholarship schemes, transparency, because we do not see how many children receive a scholarship, and we do not see within it what kind of scholarship is given to disadvantaged people, and we do not see the equal opportunities for Roma in particular. As opposed to the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation, where it was clear and clear that by the end of 2010, how many Gypsy children and Roma children received scholarships for the Hungarian Gypsies Public Foundation, we cannot see and see this today, and I think that it is the right and duty of the taxpayers to see what resources the largest Hungarian minority, the Roma minority, is using, and what opportunities within the resources it has that can be an outbreak point. Therefore, I think it is the responsibility of the current government to make either primary school scholarships, secondary school scholarships or higher education scholarships visible, how many forints are spent on Roma scholarships, and how many of them have received scholarships, because then we can see how many children graduated from primary school, see how many children have graduated from vocational school, see how many of them have graduated from vocational school and I can list college or university degrees. So until 2010, this was visible. I will also give you a number to show that in 2008-2009 HUF 564 million was available, of which 12 334 students received scholarships and 1162 received scholarships for higher education. So I think that if someone pays a tax today, they would like to see these figures, that from the scholarship system that they can see, whether in the MACIKA Travel Scholarship or in other scholarships, to see this picture, let us see clearly, so that we can open up enough to society, that the Roma in Hungary do not want to be dependent, but want to learn, and to do so give the opportunity for taxpayers and the Roma to learn. Next up is employment. In recent years, you have mentioned very often how important public employment is. I myself consider it very important, and even to be highlighted, because there are areas and there are people in a situation where there is no other option than the possibility of public employment. However, I do not see the other side of it here either in the budget, how we can integrate it back into the primary labour market rather than integrate it, but rather provide it to those who want to get there. I'll give you an example to show you. There are a lot of Roma young people who are out on the street right now, and it can be said that they are integrated into public employment with a degree or a degree or even a higher education. I believe that small and medium-sized enterprises, which receive support from European Union funds or from domestic sources, can be reached, whether with tax incentives or other things, to be able to employ disadvantaged people, including Roma. Then it would be possible to see and perceive that they do not want to trap these disadvantaged people and, in particular, the Roma, who are in public employment and do not want to keep them in this system for several generations, but are trying to give them the opportunity to break out. This other leg, how we can integrate them into permanent employment, is not seen or seen from this budget. I would like to talk very little about the housing problem. I think that you are trying most to get the settlement authorities to deal with the housing situation. And here again, I do not see the help given to the municipalities, for example, to the municipal tenements, to the renovation section, or to the purchase area, to buy apartments, so that the municipality can distribute as many apartments as possible from the municipal system. Because what I see is that there is a full market entry here, which means that the number of apartments in the municipality is not increasing, but the demands are much higher than they have been in the last four or five years. Therefore, I think that local governments should not be put in a position not to help them to change the housing situation of those living in the settlement. But it's back in part of the Roma issue. Many times, from 2005 onwards, we have constantly said that the eradication of Roma settlements is an important strategic aspect for Hungarian governments, and is also an important strategic aspect for this government, but in this budget, which is the 2015 budget year, I do not see the possibility that in the nearly 600-650 Gypsy settlements that are still in Hungary? And this affects some 120,000 people? He's helping the people who live here. Because it is clear and clear that the 120,000 people who live in the settlements do not have employment, education or health outbreaks, because the reason why Roma people die there is usually at the age of 35-40-45, because the way of life they live there cannot be kept any longer. Therefore, I think that the government has a responsibility to do what it would like to do with the 120,000 people who live in the Gypsy settlements, whether they want and wish to change their fate, because in the 2015 budget year, I do not see that they would do anything about it. Finally, there would be a lot of things for the budget, but it is also a very painful point for the Roma in Hungary that nearly 600,000 ruins had the opportunity at the same time to have the targeted media at their disposal. There is no written press of the Roma society, and there is no radio, which was in Budapest, although it was not the public radio, but I mean Radio C, which was a private radio, but the state has always supported it, and you have also stopped it in the last governmental period; neither are we seeing minorities on television as we should. [[17 .30]] Therefore, I think that it would certainly be worth a chapter in the budget to return the value of making it possible for us to participate in the press and the media as much as possible because of the use of culture and language. I therefore think that this is also a major problem for the Roma in Hungary. Last but not least, the health situation. We know that the health situation of the Roma in Hungary is disastrous. Roma die much sooner than the non-Roma population. I therefore believe that the resources for prevention do not cover the amount that could be used to address this issue. In addition to preventive prevention programmes, I believe that health screening is important. I also do not see that from this budget, buses that have operated very well could possibly continue to operate and do screening in different municipalities. So I think that, overall, the budget does not try to balance the geographical and territorial distribution, nor does Hungary try to settle the situation between the poor and the rich at some level. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot accept this draft budget, and we ask that they try to change us in one or two days in the next period, so that we can meet the budget that is about people in 2015. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-11-20-148	Thank you very much, Congressman Teleki. Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary, would like to take the floor.
u2014-11-20-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to my fellow Member Teleki's comment on and on the part of the Roma youth's public employment and on the idea that he raised the problem of how public employment can be returned to the primary labour market. I would like to draw attention to two factors. On the one hand, significant resources have been provided in the last year, and significant resources are available for training this year as well. Thus, winter training employs a significant number of people in the context of public employment. In the last year, this meant about 100,000 people. This year, too, will be a significant number. Within this framework, using the knowledge acquired here and working in public employment, I would like to emphasise that Roma young people and others have a better chance of getting back to the primary labour market, by taking into account the pace of work, learning and adapting to the rules of the world of work. In addition, there are specific data on the number of people coming back to the primary labour market within 30 days and within 6 months, or the proportion of them to return to the primary labour market within one month and six months. So it's still going on. We have repeatedly said that public employment is not a goal, it is a tool. It is a tool to give work so that everyone can participate in supporting themselves and their families so that they can do useful work. I believe that this is the greatest success of public employment under new conditions since 2011. And the other thing I would like to draw attention to is the sources of market incentives. On the one hand, the job protection action plan, to which we have spent more than HUF 200 billion in the past period, and significant resources are also available in the budget for the. On the other hand, it was also said in the debate that, in the 2014-20 EU cycle, with Hungarian funds, 12 thousand billion HUF is available, and 60 percent of it can be used for economic development based on the government's decision. I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that we, too, want as many new jobs to be created in the primary labour market as possible, with as many of them coming out of public employment as possible. I believe that these efforts combined will allow as many young Roma as possible and others working in public employment to return to the primary labour market. May I have the congressman, please? since this budget includes HUF 270 billion for public employment resources within the budget of the National Employment Fund, it is worth considering that this budget should also be supported. However, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the government intends to allow as many people as possible from public employment to return to the primary labour market. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. For two minutes, I give the floor to the better Member of Adam Mirkóczki.
u2014-11-20-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to respond not to your speech just now, but to your previous speech, and also to stress that when we strongly criticize the Counter-Terrorism Centre and with even greater criticism of the amount made available to them, which is? I'm gonna say it again? huge, then we are not talking about the fact that those colleagues, those people in Hungary, are not needed, but we are talking about the Counter-Terrorism Center itself in this case? And I'm gonna say it again, thank God. there is no need in Hungary, because there has not been, and there is no presumably going to be any terrorism, and there is no right now. That's why we're saying it. But to argue, as the Secretary of State has said, that there is no terrorism in Hungary because the Counter-Terrorism Centre has been established, I would like to ask you, on my proposal, to create a centre against the UFO invasion with a budget of 10 billion, and in a year's time I will be happy to report on how great it is that we set up the Center against the UFO invasion, there was no UFO invasion in Hungary or on Earth. So once again, let us not confuse these things here because there is no terrorism in Hungary. There are one or two outstanding cases, which are indeed a regrettable crime, where the deployment of such trained colleagues is necessary, but therefore, to maintain a corps of HUF 12 billion per year? Did I just simplify the numbers? Or a body of 1,100 people, that's a fine way to put it: luxury. While you're at it? I'm gonna say it again? The police still have the basic problems of where the police station isn't and where they can't refuel the car for a month. That's the kind of parallel I want everyone to understand what our problem is. And we don't have a problem with those who work there, we have a problem with the purpose and the amount you provide for it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-152	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Because he's tampering with the button there, but I can't see the signal. [[Dr. Kontra on Charles' signal:]] Thank you very much. It's up to you, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-11-20-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to respond very briefly to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, by quoting the relevant sections of the police law and the government decree establishing the Counter-Terrorism Centre. These two sources of law describe the responsibilities of the Counter-Terrorism Center, and not just what you say, so it's not just the protection against terrorism. It is his most important task, but I think that to the fact that Hungary is protected in this respect and there is no such serious crime, it also contributes greatly to the establishment of this organisation, the establishment of this government, and it works, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is worth monitoring the capture of dangerous criminals, armed offenders. Some of this is also known to the public. So I think these are the activities? I would like to point out once again that it is worth studying, I can give it to you, I do not want to burden Parliament with such a deep professional debate, because we are talking about the budget debate, the general debate on the central budget for the year 15 is currently under way, that it is worth studying, and in light of that it is worth giving an opinion on the Counter-Terrorism Centre, its work. I think that if you do this, you can come up with a more realistic opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Another out-of-the-way comment. I give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere. [[17.40]]
u2014-11-20-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that social catch-up and, in particular, the catch-up of the Roma are common issues. I believe that the government's commitment in this matter cannot be disputed, because on the map of Europe, the Roma catch-up issue was placed by this government in 2010 and 11 and this government has prepared a social catch-up strategy which is a framework for programmes that are currently at the heart of the catch-up policy. Three brief reflections, one of which is the question of scholarships. I think that the numbers relating to scholarships are completely public. Currently in Hungary, 14 746 disadvantaged students receive scholarships in the four Travel Programs: the, the Travel to the High School programme 5273 students, the 5557 students in the graduation programme, the, the Travel to the trade programme 3033 students, the, the, the Travel to the diploma programme 883 students. I think that these are completely public, and I myself have repeatedly held a press conference on these, but of course we are also at the disposal of the Member in terms of detail. We are also fully in agreement on improving long-term employment opportunities. In just the next few weeks, the Inter-Market Committee, which is one of the most important inter-sectoral forums for catching up, will be focused on how to involve disadvantaged citizens in as many public programmes and employment programmes as possible in the next period. The third is the question of the colony program. At the time of my appointment as State Secretary, my first trip led to a Roma colony, indicating the commitment to see exactly what the situation is in the settlements and what excellent settlement programmes there are at the moment. It is important to call on the public to point out that there are good results and that the government is interested in broadening the colony programme in the following year, based on these good results and good experience. I hope that we will also be able to use your proposals to extend these programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-20-156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We now have a preliminary speaker, Member Gábor Riz, Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to address a specific area of the budget, the development of domestic tourism and its main indicators, which justify the extent to which the institutions associated with tourism and their maintenance and set costs cover each other and how the results justify and show that the investment was reasonable and legitimate. As the government has set out important principles when presenting the budget, I would just like to refer some of them to Parliament now, because I believe that tourism is a specific area that is linked to many things, including indicators and activities. One of the most important principles is that families are given priority in the next year's budget. As a result, around HUF 240 billion will remain in the pocket of Hungarian families, which is already in the previous years, but in the coming years will show that part of this will appear in the useful spending of leisure time, on the side of tourism and its revenue. Job creation is also a priority area for the next year of the budget. Once again, this is an important result and I think that it will have an exact measure of how many new jobs will be created in the context of the development and development of domestic tourism. After all, if we only take the hosts directly, besides the hosts, the catering participants, we have not yet talked about craftsmen, event planners, cultural entrepreneurs who can create additional jobs in the development of the sector. If there is more money for health next year, then it is important to talk about the specific area of tourism that we call medicinal tourism. I would also like to highlight the preventive healing and rehabilitation nature of this. Support for agriculture is an additional aid for the development of domestic tourism, since products that are produced in Hungary in the countryside form part of the local values within the meaning of the Hungaricum Act, or as Hungaricum, which also appear on Europe's table as a priority national product producer. If more EU funds arrive in Hungary in the coming years, it will also benefit partly from domestic tourism, as the development package of HUF 12 000 billion means that the infrastructure of tourism will be partially renewed and the number of small and medium-sized enterprises that live in this area can be further expanded. However, it is also important to say that if transport develops, the areas of tourism can be more easily, quickly and more conveniently accessible. Tourism itself, as a budget chapter, will be installed at the Ministry of National Economy. Tourism is one of the main services sectors of the Hungarian economy, both in terms of contribution to GDP and employment. It is the task of the tourism sector to maintain, strengthen and contribute to the creation of new jobs and economic growth by means of economic policy instruments and by shaping the legal environment. Its purpose is Hungarian Tourism Ltd. promote domestic and foreign tourism demand through its management. Tourism itself and related tasks are recorded in three paragraphs in the 2015 budget. Specifically, the differentiated addition to the tourism tax was provided for HUF 360 million on chapter-based appropriations. This appropriation is intended to support the tourism activities of certain local authorities, which are complementary to the tourism tax. The next main item is the agricultural marketing target, for which Magyar Turizmus Zrt. the beneficiary, thereby performing tasks that support Community agri-marketing activities. This is an 855 million forint package. In particular, it provides resources for the provision of agricultural and wine marketing activities on the internal market, for related operating costs and for possible target tasks. The following is the tourist destination itself, the beneficiary of which is still the Hungarian Tourism Ltd., and the package itself is about HUF 4 billion and HUF 929 million. In addition, it is important to mention that the directors' royalties for the Hungarian Formula-1 World Championship will be named here in 2012-16, because they will not be handed over to Hungaroring Sport Zrt. Other grants. The most important task in this economic area is health tourism, eco- and active tourism, cultural heritage tourism and the continuous broadening of the domestic range of offers adapted to event tourism. Using previous EU development opportunities, the domestic supply market is getting richer. Tourist destinations with regionally and seasonally significantly different characteristics have sought to put together tourist packages based on their specific characteristics, which are characteristic of the age, with significantly different target groups of interest. As a result, the domestic tourism service system is becoming increasingly stable and the tourism and tourism sectors also play a significant role in the favourable development of domestic GDP. I would like to share some indicators with the Members of the Parliament present. It is important to know, because they also determine the activity of domestic tourism in the following year and qualify for the period of this year. The indicators focus on two main dates. One is the August, which examines the period of priority tourism and the other between January and August. We make a difference in commercial accommodations at hotels, because it represents a special category, and I will tell you in the detailed analysis why. The capacity and capacity utilisation of the commercial facilities in August 2014 was 134 739 rooms, with a total of 355 977 seats, which has evolved significantly compared to recent years. [[17.50]] In January-August 2014, the room capacity utilisation rate of the hotels was 51 percent, and it is interesting that the capacity utilisation in the five-star hotels was well above this, 66 percent and 62 percent in the spa hotels. Is there also a trend in the tourist traffic of commercial accommodations? August 2014? be measured by the number of guests using the commercial accommodation. This was about 1 338 816 people, who spent 3 869 244 nights in Hungarian accommodations and increased by about 3.8 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. As regards the average stay time, we are witnessing an interesting phenomenon that, while it was 2.9 nights spent on average in Hungarian accommodations, this means a 2.3 percent decrease compared to August of the previous year, with the relation that the number of guest nights and the number of guests increased in all respects. During the January-August 2014 period, the total number of guests using the commercial accommodation increased by 7.1 percent and the number of nights spent increased by 5.2 percent compared to the same period of the previous year. It is also important to distinguish between foreign and domestic guests, since? Like I said at the beginning? Some of the resources that remain with families can be shown in domestic tourism. The number of foreign guests is about 3 120 467 persons, this is 4 percent, and the number of guest nights they spent was 8 581 343 nights, which represents a 2.2 percent increase compared to the previous year. The same 10% increase in domestic guests, and the number of nights spent increased by 8.4 percent compared to last year. The Hungarian trends, which are the practice of long weekends mainly linked to holidays and the development of short, intensive rest periods in Hungary, are well drawn from the data. It is also important to say a few words about the revenue development of commercial accommodations: in August 2014 they were 11.7 percent higher than in the previous year, and this meant HUF 24.7 billion in revenues in the sector. In the first eight months of 2014, the gross accommodation revenues of accommodation amounted to HUF 125 billion, an increase of 11.2 percent compared to the previous period. Here, too, accommodation income from foreign guests increased by 9.2 percent, while domestic revenues increased by 14 percent. In addition to accommodation revenues, it is also important to mention that HUF 46 billion came from the fact that the related catering and other services also benefited from this business. If you only consider event tourism, which is not measured by similar exact numbers, such as accommodation and spent guest nights, there was a significant increase in conference, concert or events such as my own county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, then the Miskolc opera festival or the jelly festival, but the number of guests and nights spent at the beer festival also increased with joy. A very important measure has helped domestic tourism: putting it into the Széchenyi-rest card system. Some data in this regard: In January-August 2014, Széchenyi-rest card holders contributed more than 11 percent to the revenues than in the same period of the previous year. The development of hotel guests was also impressive this year. In January-August 2014, the number of hotels registered 72.9 percent of the guest nights increased by 6.8 percent and the number of guest nights increased by 4.5 percent compared to the same period in 2013. Here, too, the number of foreign guests continued to increase, above them were only domestic guests who spent more time in hotels. Some chatter about foreign guests who mark Hungary as their destination country, what country they come from and how their interest in tourism has developed in recent years.2013. Based on the figures of the year 2012, the Czech Republic grew the most impressive in the period between January and August 14 of the most important ten countries of our sending countries, while those from the United States of America increased by about 10 percent compared to the previous period, but the Polish still honoured the Hungarian tourist offer, obviously mainly in medicinal tourism, since they typically visit bathing tourism and its offer. The number of guest nights in Russia, Romania, Austria, Britain and Italy has also changed slightly but positively in recent years. It is an interesting fact that the number of visitors in the Netherlands has decreased significantly in terms of the number of guests, as well as in terms of the number of guests: about 13 thousand fewer Dutch arrived in the country than in the previous year. In the past year, guest traffic in five- and four-star hotels, which meet high demands, has increased significantly by around 24 percent and 20 percent respectively. The development of guest traffic in sending countries in hotels: mainly guests from the United States of America increased the number of guest nights from the Czech Republic by about 10.5 percent and the number of guest nights from the Czech Republic by 9.7 percent. But guests from India from the Republic of Korea have also appeared on the palette, who have changed by 30 percent and 35 percent compared to the previous year, which is obviously always interesting to know how much the previous indicator of the base year was. It is important to give some more thought to the hospitality of the hotels, since Hungary is known primarily for its medicinal tourism. Here again, the number of guest nights increased by 7.8 percent, and the Hungarian guests expanded the guest nights of the spa hotels in the sector by 5.7 percent. 56 percent of the hotel guests and 45 percent of their guest nights came from the domestic market, and I cannot stress enough that if there is more money left than humans, they will be able to spend more on recreation and recreation. The tourist regions are different from the domestic tourist traffic. Traditionally, the Budapest-Central Danube region has the highest number of nights spent here, as well as the amount of forints spent here. It follows this, and this is the second region, which has increased most dynamically by 13.3 percent in the first period of the year, which is flattering to me as coming from Northern Hungary. In other regions, there was also an increase, except for one, Lake Tisza, where the number of nights spent and the number of guests increased to a very modest extent by only 3.3 percent. Foreign guests were also interested, primarily in South Transdanubia, bath tourism and event tourism in Northern Hungary, but traditionally in the area of health tourism. If you compare the sending countries to the destination area, 84 percent of the foreign guest nights were given by the Budapest-Central Danube region. Here I would like to draw attention to a particular phenomenon that, in the last few years, the number of so-called party tourism, i.e. the number of young people arriving here for a weekend, who are typically from Western Europe, from the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, and who spend a long weekend on the streets of Budapest, by bicycle, with such a bike pub? I just wanted to mention this as an exotic. [[18.00]] Traditionally, Russian tourists are interested in Western Transdanubia, primarily Hévíz is one of the target areas they prefer. Here local real estate dealers can confirm that more guests from this country are arriving not only periodically but also on a permanent basis. In Budapest, V., VII. and VI. The district is that which is a major part of Budapest's tourism, while in Western Hungary Hévíz, Siófok, Bük and East Hungary Hajdúszoboszló, Eger, Gyula is the traditional destination area. The development of domestic infrastructure has contributed significantly to many billions in the last planning period, which have helped to expand the infrastructure and accommodation and services based on the specific basic conditions of tourism in each region. I believe that the figures that have been mentioned earlier justify the fact that this area is rightly focused and that it is worthy of the fact that, when negotiating the budget, all members of Parliament provide support for the budget for the chapter on tourism. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker, who announced this in advance, is Congressman Gergely Farkas, Jobbik.
u2014-11-20-159	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, I have been listening to the speeches here for almost a day and a half, and I look forward to hearing from the pro-government representatives when they will finally talk about one of the biggest problems of our country, emigration, but I have not heard that word coming out of your mouth, and in this context, the problems that cause the exodus of young people, very few words, almost not at all, have been mentioned in the speeches so far. I know that the guarantee, the hope, the credibility are not budget lines, but it's very important that the numbers in it radiate to this generation? Which we know from surveys, from various researches, how much willingness is there in this generation? His willingness to emigration. Do we also know that there are about half a million Hungarians? But some people think it's an understatement, but we stick to half a million? Half a million of our compatriots are already abroad as some sort of economic refugee. We've heard a lot of communication panels from you here on the budget, a budget for realities, a budget for families, a budget for bank accounts. I would be very happy to hear you finally say that this is a homecoming budget or a budget for young people at home or something like that, but it is no coincidence that you didn't do this, and you don't use those words for this budget, because there is nothing in this budget that gives young people any hope or encouragement that your government is counting on this generation, and yet? Do I say it again? That's what we need. When I was preparing for my speech, it also occurred to me that I could practically take out my speech last year and read it again, as you have read here, and I think it would not be my shame to say the same thing to this budget I said a year ago. This is more your shame that you cannot make progress, you cannot show items in this large pile of documents that could really be an encouraging sign for a young person today, and you could show that, yes, there is a future for him in education, in the labour market and in a number of issues that concern them. Since I've mentioned education here, let's get into it a little bit. As of today, I had a dialogue with Bencé Rétvári about the situation of teachers here, and he fought back by raising educators' wages next year. I have explained that teachers are protesting the government's education policy and the government's current fiscal policy in the form of a demonstration even this Saturday. So if all that Bence Rétvári says is true that here you have so much respect for the teaching profession, then perhaps we wouldn't need this demonstration, would we not have hundreds or thousands? Who knows how many people are gonna be at this protest? on the street, and in this way express your objection. But if Bence Rétvári is so convinced of this, then I would also like to send a message here through my fellow State Secretarys that, come on out to this demonstration on Saturday, go there personally and make sure what teachers today think about the state of public education and public education. By the way, I urge all State Secretarys to do so, it will be more useful than any national consultation if they go there personally and collect the experiences and experiences there. I'd like to know if they'd dare go to one of these things. I'm afraid not. We, the better-looking ones, will be at this protest, but we've had a relationship before, a close relationship with the educator society, so it won't come out of nowhere. Why do we say that education is a stepchild of this budget? Let's talk a little bit about the KLIK. It's been mentioned several times today. Last year's budget was allocated HUF 484 billion to the KLIK budget, and this was to be supplemented by HUF 50 billion in the course of the year to enable this academic year to run smoothly. In the following year, only 524 billion will be allocated to KLIK, which alone is less than what was intended to maintain this institution this year, not to mention that according to Mihály Varga, another step in the pedagogical career model will create an additional HUF 38 billion demand for the operation of the CLIK. So you can see that there is a very serious difference between the numbers that you have planned and what is really needed for the operation of the Institutional Maintenance Centre. There are serious concerns in educators about whether they are trying to compensate for this with dismissals, or whether they are trying to compensate for it with school closures, or with unthinkable mergers, or who will suffer from this, who will be the victim of this minimal budget, because unfortunately there will be; you can see from last year's figures that there will not be enough money planned. We could also look at the budget for universities and colleges. You are very cleverly referring to the previous year, where there is indeed a few billion HUF increase, but if we look back a little bit, say, to the 2011 level, we can see that at the budget line at that time the universities and colleges were separated from 189 billion HUF. This year, this figure is 143 billion, so 46 billion forints less than, say, four years ago. We are talking about huge amounts, and when we talk about 40 billion less in higher education this year, we also need to see that this step backwards has been made in previous years as compared to 2011 levels. So this is a cumulative setback in the budget for higher education. In four years? Isn't that too much to say? Forints 200 billion were less dedicated to college students, which cannot be explained at all by the fact that there are fewer student numbers, although it is true that the number of students has decreased. It is also worth considering their own responsibilities, because we can remember that when you raised the idea of introducing the tuition fee, there were 50,000 fewer young people in higher education institutions that year, from 144,000 to 90,000, the number of higher education candidates suddenly decreased. Besides colleges, colleges? In our opinion? little money is being spent, it should also be mentioned in the context of the budget that you have already made a system of blocking part of the budget of different institutions almost weekly, causing problems that are often not overcome, but can only be compensated by some kind of additional blocking or carbon break within the institution, or by measures that undermine students and students. So this is also a very dangerous process, and we can really see practical examples when scholarships cannot be paid, scholarships that are the only source of income for many students, and just because they don't get scholarships from the institution, he still has to pay for the college, the rent, he has to eat something on a daily basis, he has to buy textbooks. So you're not getting your scholarship thanks to your lockdowns and your budget policy with this system. But let's go beyond education, since I have started talking about the problems of young people and the hopeless situation of young people, inspired by the budget, because the same can be said about the problem of housing, which is also a major problem for the 20-30 generation: most young people do not have the opportunity to move into separate homes. [[18.10]] We have a lot of ideas that we don't see coming through the budget. I have now tried to bring things that have not only come from our words, but also from you. Is the Minister of State also familiar with the Ministry of Hungarian Youth 2020? The Ministry of Human Resources - a volume in which it was formulated in relation to the rent-apartment programme that a more extensive, well-functioning, affordable social housing sector should be created. I'm bringing this here because I'm telling you again, those are not our words. We've been saying this for years, but you guys made it to the point that in 2013, when this little volume came out, you said you needed one of these. However, we do not see any foundation in this budget, although, I say once again, it would be a very great opportunity for young people today to rent a flat at a much lower price than the market price, for a fraction of it, could buy it in a few years' time, and this could be done in a state-supported way, and could represent the opportunity for these young people to be able to break away from their parents in this way and start a single household. Yet nothing is happening in this area. But let me remind you of another promise in this volume, which also has no budgetary cover. This applies to youth rapporteurs. Also in this book Hungarian Youth 2020 they formulated their proposal to finance the provision of tasks for the local government. However, the embedding of this did not happen in 2014 and 2015; therefore, youth rapporteurs remain unable to operate in the municipalities, even though it would also be very important for young people in the area to create the environment for these young people that would promote housing and long-term planning there, which would also discourage the willingness to emigration, starting from the beginning of their careers. A few words about youth items, just to be specific. For children's and youth professional development purposes, HUF 155 million was intended in 2011 and HUF 28 million this year. This is 18 percent of the 2011 level. The basic programme for children and youth is worth 65 million forints instead of 132 million forints. Two years ago, it was in the budget to support youth events. You guys couldn't even afford it this year. Also included are children's and youth holidays. It's not in this year's budget either. Neither are applications for children's and youth purposes, nor do they include support for educational, social, civil and non-profit organisations, bodies, associations, committees. So there are a number of items that simply don't appear in this year's budget, which will appear and cause a concrete withdrawal. I would like to mention one last thing, the task of preventing drug use. Although this line is available in this year's budget, as it was a few years ago, only 1 billion forints were planned in 2010, 512 million in 2012 and 355 million forints now have to be settled. To sum up, if I wanted to live with a metaphor, this budget could be written off with an animal and cancer. She's cutting, as I've shown through many examples, she's slashing, like cancer does with her scissors, and she's going backwards. It is moving backwards, because the resources, the resources for youth, are decreasing and even disappearing, and with such an attitude, do not be surprised at the high willingness of emigration. I would like to ask you to change this now, because it is not the Jobbik's problem of the migration of young people, not the problem of the opposition, but the problem of the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-11-20-160	Thank you very much, Congressman Wolf. The next announced speaker was Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Member Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although I was not prepared to respond to a comment, I would certainly like to respond to my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, especially at the beginning of it, because he said or suggested that anyone who was a Fidesz Member would not talk to people, in this case, mentioning his example, with the teachers, and recommended that we even go to the demonstration to get information from them, to get information from them, to listen to their opinions. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, that we regularly talk to people, we know their problems, we know the problem of teachers, and we know that a significant part of teachers are aware of the situation, they are aware of the budgetary situation, they are aware of their own situation, and they appreciate the effort that has been made in recent years in the field of education and the development of a career model for teachers in terms of improving the quality of life of teachers. The reason why I thought of this was when I listened to you, because I also thought about how easy it was to give an opinion on the budget from the benches where opposition representatives are sitting, since they can do so by making promises or requests or proposals that are mainly made on the expenditure side, they will not be called to account for 3 to 3.5 years. It's a huge relief for sure. Only if there were a fairy who would say that there were two days here, let us make a budget, but not just look at the expenditure pages, but also at the revenue pages, and look at the revenue pages together with the expenditure side, take into account, balance, then it is not certain that my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, would have put every sentence, every thought in this way. After all, in response to opposition contributions in general, let me give you some thought. In the debate behind us, on many occasions the same or similar arguments and arguments were made in the speeches in favour of and against the draft budget. Opponents, in particular MSZP Members, have repeatedly expressed doubts about the feasibility of the budget. In their speeches, they declared that they agreed with the subsidies and directions in the budget, but they also said that they did not think that certain areas should be regulated in the way the rapporteur had imagined, but that, listening to them, they should adapt the draft budget in accordance with their proposals, for example, by spending more money on certain sectors. As I said, they do so in a comfortable situation that they will not know and be called to account for their suggestions. By the way, in many, including me, when I listened to many of their requests, the question arose, especially when a socialist Member asked us for anything, such as the current rate of VAT or the draft measure on the family tax reduction, so that if they knew and knew what they should have done or what they should have done, why they did not do so in the period 2002-2010. Then, at that time, why didn't they make their decisions in the interests of the people who live here? Why have taxes been significantly raised in many cases? Why did they drive people into the trap of foreign exchange loans? Why have many families been put in a difficult position, for example, by promoting foreign exchange loans, cheating them, leading them astray, and why has the budget ruined them? And why it is weird that MSZPs are asking for, for example, the amount of VAT charged on food, I would like to emphasise again and again with myself, and remind everyone that precisely during socialist governments, for example, the VAT on food increased to the maximum possible value at that time, 25 percent. Speaking of tax revenues on several occasions during the debate, I would like to say a few words about tax revenues on the revenue side of the budget, about how the budget tries to help families, job creation, economic development, the strengthening of which is a strategic objective for the government to set up for budget implementation. So I would like to sum up and emphasise the main directions of the tax and contribution policy that assist the budget. The foundations of the tax system remain unchanged next year, because this tax system is already proven to provide Hungary with financial stability, social security and economic growth. The government's aim is to keep the burden of families, workers and businesses raising children at a low level. [[18.20]] This is how the family tax system will continue to work next year, and economic growth will continue to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary by keeping their corporate tax at a low level. The government's determined objective in the budget and budget is to ensure that corporate tax remains one-key in this cycle. The foundations of the tax system will therefore remain unchanged next year, because the tax system has already been proven to provide Hungary with financial, fiscal stability, social security and economic growth. And you're doing this not by asking people for more sacrifices, but by companies that have spent huge amounts of money taking it out for years without serious control? especially in the time of the socialists? the money from the country. And let me make a short detour on this. I hope that everyone remembers that, after socialist governance, the situation of the Hungarian economy as well as the budget was compared to that of the Greeks, which was the possibility of close collapse in 2010. And now, four years later, in a budget debate, we are talking about whether there is enough money for economic development, whether there is enough tax relief, whether there is enough money for a salary increase, or when the introduction of a career model for new occupations can begin; and it is not a restriction, as the one-time Prime Minister, called Gordon Bajnai, did, who could only say after eight years of wasted that the actions of the Socialists at that time would be painful. And he was right, it hurt a lot of people. Yes, what else we can talk about today is positive results, such as the budget helping families, helping to develop the economy and bearing in mind financial stability, which ensures predictability. The government's aim, as I have already mentioned, is to keep the burden of families, workers and businesses raising children at a low level. The major tax restructurings carried out in recent years have been completed. Next year, there will be a family tax system based on the appreciation of work and child rearing. Wage is still one of the lowest rates in Europe in 2015, the 16 per cent tax rate, and child education is supported by family tax incentives. With the family tax discount, about HUF 240 billion remains in the family pocket. In order to further stimulate economic growth, the corporate tax on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary remains low. It is well known that the government reduced corporate tax from 19 percent to 10 percent from 2011 to HUF 500 million. He'll keep that up next year. In addition, the government's determined goal, as I have already said, is to have a single-key corporate tax in this cycle. Most of the tax changes planned from 2015 aim to improve the productive business environment, to whiten the economy, to reduce the administrative burden in the practical areas of taxation and to improve the focus of tax incentives and, consequently, to create jobs, to improve living conditions for people living here. In addition, as education is one of the foundations of a successful future, next year companies supporting higher education institutions can benefit from a corporate tax base and still receive tax relief from visual team sports, performing arts organisations and Hungarian film support companies. It should also be stated, as a basic principle, that all economic operators should continue to be able to bear public burdens in proportion to their capacity. Let me highlight some of the most important tax measures planned for 2015 in terms of revenue. In the case of VAT, a number of measures will be introduced in order to combat the black economy and tax evasion. On the one hand, as of 1 January, the legal institution for reverse taxation will be extended to several new areas. On the other hand, some relatively narrow taxpayers have to submit VAT returns more frequently, such as newly established companies and companies with a turnover above HUF 50 million. Instead of quarterly, the former are required to submit a quarterly declaration instead of annual. In addition, in order to combat tax fraud, a stronger tax authority oversight of the electronic road traffic control system allowing more thorough control of goods traffic in road freight transport and food vending machines will be introduced. The revenue-enhancing effect is expected to amount to tens of billions of HUF. These measures either broaden people's opportunities or improve their living conditions, or allow wage increases to be given to educators, health workers, law enforcement staff, or we can plan just when to provide a predictable career in the social sector. In addition, measures for foreign exchange taxpayers leave another HUF 1000 billion in people's pockets. On the basis of what has been said in the two days behind us, I would like to ask you to support the draft budget that is before us and which will follow up on the minor amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-162	Thank you, Congressman. Preliminary statement by Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2014-11-20-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is always saying how important the safety of families is. Well, by the looks of the Hungarian Defense budget, it's not important for the government to have family safety. And when we talk about security, we can talk about social security, economic security, and, of course, military security; in all three areas, the government's attitude is very deceitful. It is the Hungarian Defence Office that protects our country, guarantees the safety of Hungarian families, is an important part of NATO's collective protection, and we have seen the incredible role of the Hungarian Defence Office in flood protection tasks and disaster response, and it is essential to guarantee security. And for all of this, there is a staff of the Hungarian Defence Forces who do their job well, both soldiers and military workers, who choose to make it their calling to live to guarantee the safety of Hungarian families. If we look at the Hungarian Defence budget, we have no doubt that not only is he a stepchild of the government in this area, and he treats it with residual principles, but he is doing a conscious destruction in this regard. After all, we have seen that in the last four years the government has reduced the Hungarian Defence budget to a historic low, which I would like to point out is that it has never been below 1.1 percent of GDP before 2010. The current figures, on the other hand, show that in 2014 the budget for defence was set at 0.79 per cent of GDP, which will be only 0.75 per cent by 2015. Minister Csaba Hende pointed out yesterday that there is an increase of nearly HUF 9 billion in the defence budget, which is a 3.7 percent increase. This is an interesting way of calculating, and it is absolutely tricky with numbers, as we know that this is 3.7 percent of the total expenditure, and we are looking at the budget in this way as a percentage of GDP. Or we can see how much this amount is enough to carry out the basic tasks. And if we look at this nearly HUF 9 billion, we can see from this that it is only HUF 5.7 billion, which is additional state support in the defence budget compared to the previous year. And for sure, of this 5.7 billion, 1.5 billion is the increase in basic job provision. And if we look even further at this amount, we may also notice that the seals on which the Minister says a lot of times that they will not be taken away, but then we always see that they will eventually take away these funds, these seals have now been incorporated into the base, so even this one and a half billion forints is not in the budget. And in the meantime, we see that in the last four years, the capabilities of the Hungarian Army have been down, the fighting helicopter capacity has ceased, and we can see that transport helicopters are running out of time. So we can talk about a continuous depreciation. Even from the last closing account we discussed, it was apparent that depreciation increased by more than 10 percent over a year compared to the previous year, so this indicates that the technical tools had become obsolete. [[18.30]] And if we were talking about helicopter power, then we all remember that in May 2013 the Minister of Defence quite rightly held a multiparty consultation on request, when all parties agreed and supported the Minister's support that it was necessary to obtain helicopters and to ensure helicopter capacity in any way. In the autumn of 2013, a helicopter tender was scheduled to be issued, which was also presented to the parliamentary parties in order to enable the new government to decide immediately after the elections on the purchase of helicopters. Well, compared to that, nothing came of it when we asked about the tender, we didn't get answers to almost any of our questions, either orally or in writing. By the way, State Secretary Siklosi has already said that the preparations are supposed to be completed and that they are waiting for the government's decision on this. However, there is no cover for such procurement in the next year's budget. And I would like to point out that this spring we managed to purchase three Mi-8 helicopters by completely excluding the public, and they referred to a legislative clause where they were otherwise able to answer the letter of the law, but otherwise the explanation for this is very false. So if there is a helicopter tender, which is also urgent, it is urgent that a national helicopter fleet is acquired and that the helicopter capacity is maintained, we insist, and we call to the attention of the government, to ensure the maximum publicity that can be provided in such a case, a genuine competitive open tender in this case. After all, we are currently living in weeks and months when there has been a significant loss of confidence in the government, and we have already seen a Gripen acquisition, when, after sweeping aside the professional preparatory work, Viktor Orbán and a very narrow circle decided how the procurement would otherwise take place and completely shut the public out. In the Hungarian Defence Fund budget again this year, as it was last year, it was extremely important that we support the Hungarian Football Academy with HUF 50 million. We believe that this amount would otherwise be in a much better place than the Social Policy Public Foundation, which, by the way, supports military families in difficulty. And it's not this tight-handed political leadership when it comes to, say, Gábor Kubatov's request to cross Grip to the Fradi Stadium. I would like to mention here that in such cases, for example, there is a cost, as we can talk about fuel. The explanation is very clear that there was an exercise here. Besides, it would be very good if the defence budget were to be such that our soldiers could practice as much as possible, because there is very little practice now, and there is little money for fuel. I think that this minimum increase, this about 1.5 billion forints, which may still be found in the budget for basic tasks, is extremely small and will not bring any improvement. Yesterday, Minister, you have listed a number of programmes on what developments there are and what are expected next year. Before that, he gave a very savoury negative opinion on the defence policy of socialist governments. This was interesting because in the list of developments and programmes, he mentioned the automotive procurement programme, the VHF radio purchases, the development of the Mistral anti-aircraft missile system. These are all things that the socialist governments have started, so it's so terrible, I think it couldn't have been. In the section of the Prime Minister's Office, various payments are divided into HUF 61 billion. This has also been discussed several times in the budget debate. However, it is only explained in the explanatory statement that 44 billion forints of it have been allocated to raise the salary of the armed forces. Accordingly, as you said, in July 15 we hope to increase the salary by 30 percent. This was, by the way, very timely, and I think it's the least you can do. It is natural that this is necessary, and this is a positive one, and I have to highlight this in any case. The question will be how this will be done. There is a need to be very careful, on the one hand, to coordinate with professional organisations, trade unions and to ensure that this increase takes place in a fair way, and, on the other hand, to take account of the fact that there is no slippery salary here at the rank level. Overall, the situation of the Hungarian Defence Forces will not improve in 2015. In order to make a substantial improvement in order to stop the destruction that the Orbán government has done over the past four years, the budget must be at least 1 percent of GDP. In this connection, we will present amendments, since we do not agree with blocking, we do not agree with ten million forints to support football, when this can also be used for the stock and their families. So rethink the defence policy, you can still change it, because our security environment has changed. Take this into account, since it is your responsibility to pursue a proper policy and to stop the depreciation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-164	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State.
u2014-11-20-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman! He began by saying that the security of families, the security of Hungary and the budget for defence are related to Hungary's budget. Indeed, they are linked, and in Hungary's budget, which lies ahead of us, and we are discussing now, the defence budget is made up of principles that are transparent, clear, clear and previously published and known to all of us. Government decree decided that Hungary's defence budget would not decrease at the time, in the years when the budgets, defence budgets and military budgets of other NATO countries did decrease. We kept it at our level. In this government decree, the Hungarian government also undertook to increase the defence budget every year by 0.1 percent of GDP from next year, 2016. So Congresswoman's banging open doors. For the Hungarian government, the safety of families is important, and the security of Hungary is important, so we are also making sacrifices. Indeed, the environment has changed, the security environment has changed over the past period, and the Hungarian government has made commitments in line with the change. In the main amount of the defence budget, you do not see it as a congresswoman, but in order to expand the papal base airport we have undertaken as NATO member and ally, we will spend billions of HUF in the coming years. This is not shown in this budget, in the main defence chapter amount. But I think it is a part of defence budget expenditure, as is part of the amount that the Hungarian government intends to use from 1 July 2015 to raise the salary of soldiers, the soldiers, to appreciate the sacrifice of our soldiers, and to comply with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, this is not included in the main amount of defence, but in the provision. That's what the law says, right? And when this is broken down, that's when it goes to the wallet budget. [[18.40]] So I think that destruction is not happening now, not now, it has happened in the last four years, but before that. The amount that the congresswoman missed in yesterday's speech from the Hungarian Defence Fund is not missing from the defence budget, but is missing from the channels that we have stopped the flow of which we have stopped, so that there are no major billions, tens of billions, or even hundreds of billions, which were not used in the defence budget at all before 2010. So I think that the budget of the Hungarian Defence Agency is eligible, supported and I ask my fellow Members to do so in Hungary's budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-11-20-167	Mr President, Dear House, While the government also calls the budget for bank accountability something ahead of us, I must respond to Péter Cseresnyés's words about the fact that they are still throwing around in the sandbox, who is responsible for spreading the so-called currency loan, allowing it to rise, not managing it. I must tell you and confirm again that in 2001 Fidesz-KDNP, more specifically Fidesz, released the spirit from the bottle by essentially allowing this construction through the legal system. But we have to say that the upswing did indeed occur during the regency of the socialists, when the volume of so-called foreign currency loans increased by more than 120 times. But let us note that in 2006, a very important thing happened, because the Banking Federation on 26 January 2006? Just remember, it's been a pretty special year? He issued a communication, or rather a study around 15 pages, in which he basically stated that people should take on foreign exchange loans in a calm manner, as the forint will be guaranteed in a 20-year perspective compared to the Swiss franc and the euro, so it is not possible to imagine a scenario that otherwise occurred. The problem is, did we look into the parliamentary records? where were the proposals made by the improver from the then opposition from Fidesz-KDNP? Where were the warrior's protests about the rise in so-called foreign currency lending? Where were your protests? Nowhere because they weren't like that. We can also say that they did not respond to the fact that about 70 percent of the contracts were written that Swiss francs would be converted by the bank on the day of the forinting. They couldn't show that to the court. But it can also be said that 90 percent of car loans did not have foreign currency amounts clearly marked, nor could they be used as exchange rates. They all happened and persisted during the last few years of the Fidesz-KDNP. From this point on, if you are pointing at the socialists, you are essentially avoiding the fact that you are not settling the issue in this budget, and that you are both jointly and severally responsible for the so-called foreign exchange loans, the financial fraud of the century. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-168	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz, for two minutes.
u2014-11-20-169	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Dániel Z. Carpathian. I believe that, although many of the answers to his question in the walls of this House are still going to be said, that there has been a protest, it would be good for you to look at the history books, my dear fellow Member, and to pay attention to what happened in the many years when foreign currency loans almost dominated the credit market in Hungary. Several times, it happened between the walls of this House on several occasions, when socialist representatives and citizens were warned about the dangers of foreign exchange lending or the taking up of foreign currency loans, of course Mihály Varga. If you're looking for specific things, it's worth looking into and looking into the records before you make accusations and accusations here. Of course, this has been said, what I am about to say, but I would like to confirm that, at the time when foreign currency loans were introduced, it was introduced so that those who otherwise have income from foreign currency accounts or currencies would be given an opportunity to obtain such a form of credit, but everyone was alerted to the danger. Yes, we agree, however, that foreign currency lending was completed and became dominant when the socialists governed the country between 2002 and 2010. And that nothing has happened in the past, and that must be strongly rejected, my fellow Member. I would like to say that, over the past period, about HUF 2000 billion is the amount of money that banks have taken over in foreign exchange loans, for example, instead of foreign exchange lenders, and now the last measure that we are discussing between Parliament's walls, if I remember correctly, will be 600 or 700 billion forints that banks will take over from foreign exchange lenders in order to [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That foreign currency credit as a form of credit disappears from the market.
u2014-11-20-170	Thank you very much. The next announced speaker is Mónika Dunai, Member of the Council, Fidesz.
u2014-11-20-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Budget 2015 [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] We have placed three of our most important principles and values at its centre of gravity. The first is the strengthening and further strengthening of families; the second is the creation of jobs; the third, which is perhaps the basis for both of them' performance opportunities, is the strengthening of the economy. In today's and yesterday's debates, further expansion of family tax incentives, growth and preservation of real value for wages and pensions, accountability of banks, preservation of the benefits of the reduction of wages and the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. But I feel that there has been little mention of cultural values, of Hungarian culture, even though culture occupies a very important place in the lives of people, families and in the free time of families, both young people and older people. The state must take responsibility for the further high quality operation and support of our cultural institutions. It is important to stress that [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] That culture should not only be the privilege of certain selected ones. Culture, our cultural, cultural and cultural institutions and our public collections must be accessible to everyone in the big cities as well as in our small settlements. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to speak briefly about budgetary support for some of the state's cultural institutions and priority events. In 2011, the government decided to reopen the Erkel Theatre. Since the opening of 2013 following the necessary reconstruction works, Erkel Theatre has received more than 300 thousand paying viewers, with more widely affordable space prices, this is very important. In order for the Erkel Theatre to be able to fulfil its mission by using lower local prices, the additional resources provided earlier during the year will be increased significantly in the budget. The House of Tradition. In his 2015 budget, the additional funding granted in 2014 as a one-time operating grant will cover the costs of the performances of the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, the artistic bonus for artists, folk music events in the Carpathian Basin, traditional folk art activities in the county, the creation and publication of folk music, folk dance, publications, and project-type tasks and the expenses necessary for continuing professional tasks. The HUF 100 million additional support of the Hungarian National Museum includes the costs of the employment of public employees required for the purpose of the archaeological collection, as well as the partial support of the maintenance costs of the warehouse in Daróczi utca. In the budget of the Budapest Operetta Theatre, the difference between the rent payment obligation to the Municipality of Budapest was incorporated, which was granted as a one-off special payment in 2014. [[18.50]] The rent will continue in 2015, and the process of ensuring it is justified. A chapter-based appropriation for participation in the 2015 Milan World Exhibition, which is about HUF 215,6 million, is Hungary's healthy lifestyle? Health, water, food? and serves as a high level of international representation of its cultural values. We are also proposing to support the European Cantat International Choir Festival in the budget. The government supports in HUF 476,000 the 19th meeting of Pécs in the summer of 2015. Europe Cantat, Europe's most important international choir festival. In addition to the high level of cultural content, the State Secretariat decided to support the Hungarian choral festival, which is expected to attract thousands of singers and visitors from all over the world, bearing in mind sustainable cultural funding and tourist attraction aspects. Of course, the tourist attraction of this can also be significant for Hungary. We provide HUF 387 million in the 2015 budget for the World Music Expo in Budapest. Next year, the promotion of the premium category concert director of the Liszt Ferenc Academy of Music will continue, which will enable the fulfilment of the obligation related to EU support. With HUF 83.5 million we support the Auer Academy Violin Festival and International Violin Competition. Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. support is included in next year's budget by HUF 100 million. Filharmónia Magyarország Nonprofit Kft. has been established to perform public benefit tasks which cannot be exposed to the risks posed by a market economy. He organizes youth concerts, presents contemporary music works, employs young talents, explores new venues and organizes new audiences. It is equally common in all areas that external sponsors are not or can only be found to a very small extent, and ticket prices can only be slightly increased. Thus, in most cases and in most cases, these concerts could not be profitable. The number of tasks of the company increased after the merger. Among other things, in the field of youth concerts, the programmes organised by the company are the only ones that can complement school singing and music education in the smallest settlements as well as in metropolitan areas. These multi-genre concerts? Adapted to school curriculum? they are able, in the light of the certainty of state aid, to present different periods of interrelated life over several years. Concerts for the adult audience allow the adult concert audience living in the countryside to have a suitable selection. The Philharmonia organizes Hungarian and foreign leading orchestras, smaller bands, world-famous soloists to the rural cities, with our support at an affordable price. The National Theatre Featured Public Use Nonprofit Kft. support is included in the budget by HUF 300 million. The National Theatre Nonprofit Zrt. In the planning of the 2015 budget, when the additional needs indicated by the organisation were accepted, the one-off HUF 300 million bonus was now set. The surplus is necessary and essential for the implementation of the goals of the renewable National Theatre's "open theatre" concept. The National Dance Theatre Nonprofit Kft. support is included in the budget for HUF 150 million. We are committed to the National Dance Theatre as one of the important national cultural institutions while ensuring its long-term framework. The aim is therefore to strengthen the operation and dance activities of the National Dance Theatre, with a view to creating a new playground, ensuring continuous and smooth operation during the transitional period and temporary rentals. Finally, cultural aid for municipal authorities. Support for the cultural tasks of municipal authorities, support for library, public education and museum tasks is included in the budget with HUF 1250 million. One of the most important areas for providing basic cultural care is the level of settlements. It is of particular importance that people get their place of residence and get their cultural values there; and, there, they have the opportunity to participate in cultural value creation. Local authorities receive support to carry out library and public education tasks in proportion to the number of inhabitants, which is less than HUF 1 million for settlements under a thousand. We want to address the distortions of the current aid scheme by fixing the minimum amount of aid. The lowest amount of aid is set at HUF 1.2 million, which is included in the proposal. The amendment will result in a noticeable improvement in public library provision and public education tasks in 1793 municipalities. This intervention affects most and more than half of Hungary's settlements. This proposal provides access to basic cultural services for 800 000 people. I think this is a very important element of cultural budget support. Additional support from local authorities, local government budget support for accumulation purposes, support for library and public education interests, professional support from museum institutions is included in the budget with an additional HUF 180 million. The increased support will increase the amount of the library's interest-enhancing framework for document procurement, as well as the launch of a number of new museum developments in 2015. These are exhibitions, family-friendly museum programs, digitization of materials, which can be realised from this amount. In the case of public education institutions, the increased support is intended for the enhancement of technical and technical equipment, equipment, maintenance and renovation of buildings. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please, when considering the aspects of other sectors in the final vote on the budget, please pay particular attention to the cultural area, because in this area we can make clear progress for the people of Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-172	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál.
u2014-11-20-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is not often that there is a significant amount of talk about culture in the debate on a draft budget law, which is why I am particularly pleased that the congresswoman has looked into and embellished not only our cultural extra support plans in the budget of the Ministry of Human Resources, but I also see that she has taken note of the items in other ministries. Indeed, the cultural area is very important, and allow me to thank the Ministry of National Economy first when I respond to the Member's speech, because you know that? Did it come up in the debate? The government's very important intention is to ensure that Hungary's budget can be financed, that the budget is balanced and that the aim of the deficit is well planned. [[19.00]] Thus, any additional financing needs on the part of the purses to the Ministry of National Economy will be seen as weakening this desired general national objective. That is why I say that we owe thanks to the Ministry of National Economy, because we have found the balance, the balance, in which we will have more money for culture in Hungary in 2015. We need to underline this and emphasise it, because when we have to look at the scale of economic growth with more access to certain areas, we obviously need to find the areas to which we can provide additional funding. As the Minister of Culture, I am obviously very pleased that in this draft budget law culture is among the winning sectors, as funding could have increased in a number of items in the next year, at least that is included in the draft. Even in the final vote, I hope that these positions will not weaken, but I hope that they may be even stronger. The figures that the Congresswoman has very precisely highlighted from the draft bill are, of course, growth figures, so the amounts that you mentioned are very welcome additional support items compared to this year's base. So we have to look at these numbers you've told us that these are the increases compared to this year. This is how we have to consider, in particular, the social policy objective of the third Orbán government, namely, that we try to interpret and organise this basic cultural supply at national level so that we can really deliver valuable culture to as many people as possible, so how can artistic and cultural institutions help this general government goal and social policy goal. They can help by organising programmes to try to give this value to social groups that have not yet been in contact with a high culture. This is what the great institutions mentioned by you, our national priority institutions, are doing, for the very first time this year, the 130-year-old Hungarian State Opera House, which, according to the objective of the second Orbán government, we have put before us, by renovating and restarting the Erkel Theatre, a task of trying to involve young people in rural areas and children in the difficult task of visiting the opera and making the genre known. And this is very well done by the opera: the Opera Adventure program, 77,000 children came up from the countryside to the State Opera House. It's exactly as many kids as it was in the past years. I think that the promotion of cultural values through the institutional framework supported by the government deserves all the additional resources, which is why it is very important to have more than 9 billion in the budget of the State Opera House next year, while during the period of socialist governance this amount was around HUF 5-6 billion. Barely four years later, the budget of the State Opera almost doubled. I think this deserves a lot of attention. Would I also highlight the Academy of Music as another important institution that we have not only renovated? has the government carried out the complete renovation of the Liszt Academy in recent years in the framework of the European Union's acquisition in the period of the previous government? , but this prestigious institution, founded by Ferenc Liszt, is for the first time included in the possibility that the government will present a special HUF 800 million state aid to finance the activities of the concert organizers of the world's three or four highest quality music training venues. I believe that in previous years, when the government provided this concert organizing work to the Liszt Academy from a separate source of extraordinary government measures, it was not stable, it was not a predictable cultural task, so today, in the new budget law, the Liszt Academy can count this amount separately. I do not want to draw particular attention to the items quoted and highlighted here by the Member, let me conclude, however, to an item not included in the Ministry of Human Resources. While our cultural portfolio includes some HUF 42.5 billion in the form of cultural support between institutions and chapters, more than twice this is included in other wallets, Ministry of Interior, development portfolio and other ministries, which are expenditure for cultural purposes. So we can say that if we just mash it out of the budget, we will see a HUF 122 billion cultural spending in the budget next year. I would therefore like to highlight a very important point in conclusion. The Ministry of Interior, which is still a large cultural funder, has an amount of around 32 billion to finance cultural tasks through municipalities. I would like to highlight a lot from the large municipal budget within the Ministry of Interior. Did we work with the Ministry of National Economy to work out a plan for those small settlements? Did Congresswoman mention that? , which receive this HUF 1140 standard each for their cultural tasks, in settlements for which this amount did not even reach one million forints, we said that there should be a minimum limit included in the budget, so each settlement will receive the HUF 1140 forints/major cultural normative, but a minimum of HUF 1 million 200 thousand. In Hungarian, every Hungarian settlement can spend at least 100,000 forints per month on cultural tasks. This intention has also been put into shape and is reflected in this budget line. The result of this is that the cultural normative will indeed increase in 1790 Hungarian settlements in the following year. This, I think, is perhaps the greatest weapon in terms of the cultural budget. And is it easy for us to see, say, a settlement of 500 people? If there's one in your living environment, is there more in mine around Pécs? the size of the settlement where a school has already lived together with the villages in the area, the cultural normative of this settlement today is around 600 thousand forints, please, a settlement of 500 people able to maintain a school will double its norm as a result of this amendment from 1 January. I think that the small result is also a great achievement, but this is not a small achievement; this is a serious result, through municipal funding we can help the municipalities in their basic cultural supply, more than half of the municipalities in the fact that there is a truly high-quality cultural presence in the settlements, and through this, the communities that are still dormant and sleepless and have not been created can be transformed into active communities and form a community along the lines of value creation. In the 40 years prior to the regime change, communities that have been torn apart during the dictatorship period are set up to create more and more self-organised communities. This intention now, 25 years after the change of regime, this amendment, I think, will help - cultural value-based community organisation for all settlements. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your speech, I trust that the cultural budget will increase with additional resources through the amendments. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-174	I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2014-11-20-175	Mr President, Dear House, Although my speech will be around the topic of home creation, because of the narrow response possibilities, do I have to be quoted? Here and there, we're gonna shoot a little bit about what we said earlier. I can start by saying that there is a faction here that says that there has not been a substantive change of regime in Hungary, and that in this spirit we will also present our proposals for amending the budget. But in the context of Peter Cseresnyés' last speech on so-called foreign exchange lending, I must say that the statement that the Curia is blocking you or holding your hand is not true and false is that, let's say, at the rate of admission, these so-called loans are forinted, since the relevant decision of the Curia concerning the consumer loan agreement of financial institutions is all about resolving precisely issues and ordering the return of items that are not related to the exchange rate. [[19.10]] They touch on the commercial margin and the issue of interest, fees and costs increases due to unilateral contractual amendments, which the Curia has declared to be unfair. But because of an independent factor, the government planned the forintation because of the uncertainty caused by the exchange rate risk. So it is not factually true that the Curia's decision prevents you from acting in the interests of the Hungarian people. I'm not the only one claiming this, by the way, in my web mailbox, this letter and this downlink can be found in the same way as yours. I must also respond, for two reasons, to the suggestion of Mr László Teleki, who has missed the increase and increase of the budget for the eradication of Gypsy colonies from this budget. We can agree that it is in no one's interest that Hungarian citizens live in unworthy conditions in Hungary. But don't forget that if funds are put together for this purpose alone, this does not change for a minute the fact that four of the 20 regions of the European Union are located in Hungary for the seven regions. Even though you would spend more money on settlements, returning to the primary labour market does not necessarily make it easier, since there are literally no primary labour markets in many of these regions. Due to the misallocation of funds in the European Union, coupled with the freezing of certain forms of support from the social system since 2008, we have come to the conclusion that EU funding can build ornamental stone tiles in every third settlement, wireless internet in yellow bus stops in Borsod. The question is, what multiplier effect is this, what dispersal effect it has. Typically, new Hungarian jobs are not created. So if you want to make a real difference, I suggest we look at, say, the fate of so-called integration money. By 2020, such amounts were allocated in the order of around 100 billion. There is also a Hungarian budgetary resource, as well as an EU budget. I say that if Hungary spent only half of this on a home-building and public-rental-building programme, then, at national level, I would go further, in every district, and it would be easier for every Hungarian citizen to create a home. So I would definitely lead to positive discrimination from this system. Do not talk about eliminating Gypsy settlements, let's talk about broadening the opportunities for home creation for every Hungarian citizen. And the so-called integration register? I'm gonna say it again? Out of the $100 billion set aside, Jobbik's programme for home creation and renting could be launched from around HUF 60 billion. So we could start a programme at national level from half the amount involved that would be suitable for the following. We would raise as many apartments as possible by Hungarian contractors and Hungarian suppliers, and we would also assess the hundreds of thousands of properties standing empty, including state-owned, municipal-owned, private-owned properties, but it is certain that tens of thousands could be returned to the Hungarian blood circulation. If funds were to be ordered, it would be clear in the construction of new-built flats or in the countryside, that by purchasing central materials, with a state-supervised construction system, where there are as few steps in the system as possible, these new apartments, real estates and buildings could be carried out in a very cost-effective way. It can also be seen that if we then allow Hungarian young people and middle-aged people to move in as tenants for all claimants, it is also possible that for up to a third of the current market rents a Hungarian young couple can move into an average apartment of 60 square meters, who, if they consider a net salary of 150 or 160 thousand HUF according to the KSH, also see that they cannot save an apartment in 20 years, but the data of the KSH represents a very large average. That's not true, that's 150-160,000 net. Go to Szabolcs, go to Borsod, where people, Hungarian citizens, work for an average of 70-80 thousand net, often hard to do physical work and are happy to have jobs. The fact that millions of bankers pay upwards does not mean that this is true in Hungary. And in the interest of government representatives and state ministers, I suggest: you can play with the Socopol here, give additional percentage-based discounts, but if you don't have 16 million forints for an apartment, you won't have 12.5. The only viable way and system would be to make it possible for Hungarian young people to move into a rental house well below market prices, to try it, and if they are able to comply with the most basic standards of social co-existence, and I say that the majority can keep them, then their rent should be converted into a voluntary, whether we call it a repayment, but the point is that after a few years, so a predictable time span, the property becomes their property. It's a well-tested, functioning system. Yes, it also includes some elements of the Austrian tenement-building programme, but it is certain that we will also give capital to the Hungarian economy, because besides the construction sector, four or five other economic sectors could be involved, can be turned up, and I will say this once again: through central acquisition of materials, with the involvement of Hungarian-owned companies and contractors, it would be possible to achieve huge results almost on its own. I'm sure that the forints that were rolled into this system would be back in a few years. In addition, we could continue to increase the willingness to have children by moving on to having children, slowing down emigration. More important targets cannot be set for a budget, such as slowing emigration and slowing down, halting or reversing dramatic population loss. Compared to this, the government has not only a reaction, but also an action plan in the budget. It was my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, who asked the Ministry of National Economy a written question, where he asked what the government was planning to do on the rental front. What was the facial toaster answer to that? The fact that, through the so-called National Asset Manager, the government has recently implemented the largest housing expansion programme. So the government did not talk about how many new apartments it intends to raise on a budget basis, to make the situation easier for young people, but rather to point out as a rental for the properties that were taken away from Hungarian people who were largely unfit for payment without their own faults, with the help of the bank? In quotes? they are owned by the State and the original owners may re-lease their own property. That's what you call a rental. This is a high school of insolence, and if a government tolerates it, it will issue a certificate of poverty on you. There was a set of homes in previous budgets. What did this include? It marks the state foot and state adjustment of the exchange rate barrier 2.0, but one single orphan apartment has not been built in Hungary, and you are idly watching hundreds of thousands of people leave this country. I don't want to get into playing with numbers, there's a half-million-dollar estimate here, a very low-key three hundred-whatever ten thousand KSH estimate. We can say that, during your regency, hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians thought that they could not or could not survive in this country. The fact that a stinking word in this budget does not reflect the fact that it does not appear at programme level, how the few tens of thousands of people who could be called home now could be called home; it does not show how to keep those who are here and who are flirting with the idea of emigration at home, it is quite amazing. They are visualizing pictures of a raging economy, while Hungary is also going through an amazing fall at regional level. We see that in this budget the level of payments expected from taxes and contributions is increased by HUF 280 billion, by 158 billion in VAT revenue expectations, and by 400 billion in the so-called special taxes in the financial sector, which so far have been shown to have been passed on to Hungarian citizens, stakeholders, either in full or in excess of total volume; in an incredibly overtaxed economic structure where they took over government with 34 tax types in 2010, they were now 41 at their two-thirds victory this year, and now we are going to 45. So, once again, a new tax, which is actually freely manageable, has been invented for the municipalities. The former austerity packages have not been introduced, and they expect the young Hungarians, the middle-aged Hungarians, to build this country in good spirits and in the future. Please, it's not that simple. All Hungarians should be able to find and receive opportunities here because of their birth. This would be natural, but in addition to such a series of helpless and unrealistic government actions, this will be impossible for many. Returning to foreign exchange credit for a sentence: I cannot believe you, I cannot believe that you do not realize that many intellectual, multi-diplomatic people are working as sinks or slaughterhouses in the Netherlands and in foreign countries to cough up their credit or the burden of their family here and pay back the financial system that does not deserve this, which has unduly drawn thousands of billions from Hungarian people, and for which you are still able only to negotiate tricks, word magic and banking. None of this is more evident than the fact that if the 2010 rate had been used to return the loans to the exchange rate at the time of admission or to deliver a normal solution, the Hungarian credit damage would have been a thousand billion in size. [[19.20]] But even then, you lacked the courage to do so, and now you are simply unable to provide a meaningful response to what has been said. They've never done it before. I still hope that they will, but with regard to the lack and flaws of the line of home creation, they should think about the amazing outflow that affects Hungary, the vacuum and population drain that the Western European countries are supporting and wanting to slow down and how they can prevent Hungary's colonial status from being maintained within the European Union. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-176	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2014-11-20-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Members, If the 2015 budget is to be assessed from a social policy point of view, the following can be said about it. Next year's budget will deepen the gap between poorer and richer sections of society. Severe tax changes will reduce the incomes of families on the one hand and increase their spending, cut social benefits for families in need, narrow down the gap and increase the number of people in poverty on the other. The expansion of community service slavery is trapping the unemployed. The destruction of the education system also causes serious social damage in the long term because it reduces children's mobility and the potential for ascension. Public finances will continue to spend less on welfare expenditure next year as a proportion of GDP. In 2015, the amount of welfare expenditure as measured by the total expenditure is significantly reduced compared to 2010: from 61.5 per cent to 56.6 per cent. The amount of resources allocated to welfare functions is also decreasing by GDP compared to 2010, from 30,6 per cent to 27,4 per cent. Here I would like to list a few items and to say to Mrs President that these are welfare expenditures that have been reduced: education activities and services, health, social security and welfare services, housing, municipal, community activities and services. Yes, the amount for culture in proportion to GDP, you have said, Congresswoman, only in this one item has the budget increased. Let me tell you that it is very important that you turn to culture, only 74 percent of Hungarian families today cannot finance an unexpected 50 thousand HUF edition. 64 percent of Hungarian families cannot finance a one-week domestic holiday for their own family. I think you should think about that. Under the classification of family allowances and children's benefits, HUF 522 billion is included, while this year it was still HUF 540 billion. That's a $18 billion cut. Next year, HUF 373 billion was earmarked for other social assistance, while this year's appropriation was still 445 billion. That's a $72 billion drop. For unemployment benefits this year, 251 billion, 237 billion next year, 13 billion forints. While there are chapter titles in the explanatory statement that there is a stable financial situation, lasting economic growth, improved social security. Several times during the elections, they promised that there would be no restrictions. What I see is that we don't work on the same budget, this budget is all about austerity. Despite the fact that GDP does not justify this, the majority of indicators describing poverty and child poverty have deteriorated our situation within the EU. It is also noted in a report by civilians that, according to all our poverty indicators, we belong to the poorest quarter of the EU, with almost half of the 1.7 million children living in exclusion, deprivation and poverty. Lajos Kósa said that even a Mercedes needs to be taken to the garage at times, not because it's bad, but because it needs to be maintained. The problem is that the Hungarian social care system has never been good before, there has been no Mercedes. This is already reflected in the size of the social expenditure in the OECD average countries, according to OECD data, we spent 23,9 percent of GDP on social expenditure in 2009 and this fell to 21,6 percent in 2013. It can be seen that in recent years the family allowance has been reduced by HUF 30 billion. Next year, only 327 billion forints were planned. This may be due to the reduction of the age of compulsory education to 16 years, the addition of the family allowance to school visits, and the tightening of the higher family allowance last year, which was taken from sick children. I stress: sick children. And, of course, this causes fewer children to be born in Hungary. It should be mentioned here that the conditions for family tax relief do not change at the beginning. Several times today, they are campaigning for the 2015 budget to extend the tax relief for two children. Stop it, I told you this once today, families with two children are not included in the 2015 budget. I have to mention here that they're also going to tighten up the kindergarten, that any child who doesn't go to kindergarten will be deprived of the family allowance. Well, as a mother, I'm gonna want to know how they're gonna do that. Do you know what you're up to? About 20-25 000 seats are missing from kindergartens in Hungary today, so that they can introduce them from the age of three. I'm gonna wonder how they're gonna make up for that in a year. The other one. Think about it. As an experienced mother, I can tell you that when you're three years old, the child gets into kindergarten, for the first time in six months, he's always sick. Now, we don't run around to the doctor all the time because he might just have a little cold? From this point on, a certificate shall be required on a continuous basis. Are pediatricians prepared for that? Have you thought this through? ? How much more will the number of parents and children entering the pediatrician's office increase every day? I'll add to that when you tell me that there will be good families and bad families, how will the notary verify this? Who's gonna be a good family? The one who's a Christian family from a KDNP perspective? Or who is the good family in Hungary today? Just tell me that. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: The internationalists are...!]] So, there are some interesting questions about this tightening up. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: What is your problem with Christians?]] The other one. At the National Fund for Family and Social Policy, I would like to list a few items on what is falling in the 2015 budget. Family allowances? decrease. Maternity allowance? decrease. Childcare allowance? decrease. Child-rearing allowance? decrease. Reimbursement of maternity leave? decrease. Child protection grants in cash and in kind? decrease. Life support? decrease. Prepayment of child support fees? decrease. Service stipends? decrease. Pre-age care, ballet arts annuity? Speaking of culture? decrease. Agricultural benefits? decrease. Political rehabilitation and other pension supplements are reduced. Conjugal allowance? decrease. Other subsidies: support for diabetics, rent support? decrease. A framework supplement for people with changed job skills? decrease. Public health - decreasing. And will you then support the Hungarian families in the budget next year? How many items should we list? In my opinion, during the day, this budget is a budget for poverty, brazenness and failure. Poverty? I guess what they meant was why I said that it was a budget for poverty. The budget of impertinence is... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: We also understand failure!]] Would you wait for me to finish, Mr. Secretary? Is the budget of impertinence because? I'd like to tell you a few items. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: We also understand failure.]] Sport was mentioned here several times. 120 billion for stadium construction and all that unnecessary stuff. And then there's everyday physical education. You said this year that six billion are going to be built for schools and classrooms. Then they said that for the years to come, because it will explode next year, because every year the daily physical education is introduced, and about 650 gymnasiums are missing from the settlements. Compared to this, next year's budget is not HUF 6 billion for school and classroom building, but HUF 1.8 billion. While the stadiums are being pulled up in Hungary as if the fungus were growing out, and in the meantime, if we only mention football, we were ranked 54th in the FIFA rankings, we fell back 20 places. And in the face of impertinence, I would like to mention that while we are talking about child poverty here and I told you how many poor children there are in the country, the Prime Minister's move to Castle will cost us 6.3 billion forints next year. I think that there are more important things in Hungary than spending on such things. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: Absolutely true!]] [[19.30]] The budget for failure, my dear Members, is a budget for failure because the Hungarian population will not be able to bear it next year. And it has been said several times today that it would be better to consider the protests and pay attention to teachers on Saturday, because teachers are not just going out on the street for themselves. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: It's because of you.]] Do you know why they're still going out? Against child poverty? And it would be nice to have your attention now. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-178	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2014-11-20-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honestly, I find it hard to find words, because I feel a little bit like I'm not going to Hungary. So there are terms... [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: We don't live in the same country, we feel the same way!]] I have heard words saying that this fiscal policy and economic policy are like cancer, who is cutting and moving backwards; I hear that we are talking about the budget of failure. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's look at the statistics. Unfortunately, in the case of Hungary, we have talked a lot about the budget of failure, and perhaps you have not heard from me the statistics that you had during your administration. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Finally!]] Yes, yes, there have been six factually six years when the general government deficit in Hungary was either the largest in the 27 Member States or the second. Yes, unfortunately, this term can be used in the case of Hungary. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes!]] I think it's worth it that after nine years, we're off the bench of shame, the over-deficit procedure. No one is questioning the fact that public finances are in order today. The congresswoman asks me what price and let me go back to where the country is going. Based on statistical data, not only the Central Statistical Office, but also the statistics of the European Union's statistical body, employment in Hungary is increasing. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Public works!]] Employment figures show a height of more than 20 years, I add, Congresswoman, not only because of community service. Yes, thanks to community service, please check the numbers, in the past period there has been a clear drawing of employment data from the competition sector. We can talk about what economic growth there is. Dániel Z. Carpathian said that we are talking about a roaring economy. Congressman, I must say that not just us or us, but also the European Commission. Look at the European Commission's forecast, and it shows that this year Hungary's growth from 28 Member States is the second highest expected value. Yes, in fact, we can say that thanks to God, there is substantial economic growth, and this is the extra economic growth that creates cover for a lot of extra expenditure. Culture is not only an area where we can talk about extra expenditure, but also a number of other areas. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Numbers?]] Congresswoman, I have the budget proposal ahead of me. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Me too!]] Exactly with the numbers, and from this I see more resources for both public education and for the camping of children? or yes, also for the feeding of children. Then, Congresswoman, if I may, I would respond factually to your suggestions. I would like to ask you to specify the benefits that are particularly reduced for each individual person. Unfortunately, on the basis of demographic trends, we see expenditure estimates that are falling in absolute terms, but there is no reduction at the level of individuals. Why do family support items decrease in absolute terms in terms of budget as a whole? Because there's a demographic process that needs to be reversed. And then let's see what the government has done to this end and what it has done in the past. You said that you saw as a practicing mother what difficulties you had to face. Then I also have to ask you, as a practicing mother, you know how much extra resources are left for families by introducing a family discount. As a practicing mother, you know what the extra introduction of the child means to people. You know as a practicing mother, and please check the statistical data [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I do!]] The fact that, by introducing a social contribution tax scheme, women with children are able to return to the labour market much more easily and again, we are monitoring public statistics shows that women's employment is increasing thanks to these measures. You are right that the demographic issue is an extremely pressing issue. I say that, for the sake of demographic change, the government and Parliament have taken a number of measures, and I think that families see the result. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sure! They're giving birth!]] Let me respond in a few sentences to the question of foreign exchange credentials, which was highlighted by Mr Dániel Z. Carpát. I fully agree with the Member that we are talking about a problem with foreign exchange creditors, which is not just a problem for individuals, but a problem for the whole economy. The vulnerability of the Hungarian economy was also caused by the fact that not only the population, not only the state, the municipalities, but indeed the corporate sector was indebted, and in large part in foreign currency. This has increased the vulnerability of the whole economy, so it is not just an individual problem, a very serious individual problem, but also a serious macroeconomic problem. Now, this problem, I think, has been dealt with with bravely by the government, with steps that many countries have not taken, and have not dared to escape. We also see other Member States in the countries of the European Union, where foreign exchange lending was a problem, and I have to say that although it is often unofficial, officials from other countries commend the Hungarian government, commend Hungary on the fact that it is because it is a very difficult issue, and I think that the system of bank accountability, fair banks, closes in 2015 the process that the government started in 2010. Once again, several calculations confirm that the fair bank system returns HUF 1000-1100 billion of resources to its customers, which is the amount that appears in the population. If I mention just this last step, then I think that Hungary, the government, the Parliament has done a lot and is doing a lot to end this troubled period in the end. As to how the issue of housing and the solution to the problem of foreign exchange creditors can be linked, the Member highlighted an element, the National Asset Management System. The Member mentioned that the high school of insolence is when the government as a success or as a positive step in dealing with the problem of foreign exchange credentialers adopt the operation of the National Asset Manager as a success or as a positive step. Congressman! Do I think that families that could have kept their homes that didn't end up on the street, but that they could continue to use their apartments? Yeah, as a tenant, and they're not on the street? , they value this programme as a positive rather than a negative. What if Hungary had not introduced this measure? What would have happened was that these people would be on the street, factually, that's the case. As regards the recovery of the housing market and government measures, I fully agree with the Member that there is a need for measures, which is exactly what the budget bill for next year includes with the often mentioned family home creation programme, which, I hope, will provide substantial assistance both in housing market issues and in child bearing, will be a positive step from the middle of next year. This is once again an item that will be dealt with in next year's budget bill. However, as far as housing is concerned, as regards home creation and the facilitation of housing acquisition, I must not only highlight the National Asset Management Institution, not only the home creation programme, but also the reduction of the interest payment or burden in the housing support system. Yesterday, one of the socialist Members stressed that there are appropriations, housing support appropriations, where they are falling. Yes, because the central bank base rate and commercial bank interest rates are falling. For those who have raised funds for housing, we must now, thank God, pay less interest for it, yes, Congresswoman, because it is a responsible economic policy, a responsible budget, which the government has prepared and submitted to the Honourable Parliament. This also led to the fact that the financing of public debt is now cheaper, because investors in Hungary believe, and the sovereign debt buyers believe that the Hungarian State is able to repay its debt. [[19.40]] Congresswoman, this has not always been the case. We can remember a time when no one was willing to lend Hungary, only international organizations. Let's see how much interest we paid after that. I say, and the document submitted states that, thank God, interest costs are falling, and not only the interest costs of the State are falling, but also the interest costs of people who have taken out loans for example in order to obtain housing. I therefore think, and allow me to return to the introductory sentence, recognising that there are a number of tasks ahead of us that need to be resolved, but I think that the steps of the past period have been successful, successful not only at the level of macroeconomic figures, but also at the level of individuals, and I believe that this economic policy will be continued in the next year's budget bill, and I trust that if you vote, this process will also be a reality in 2015. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-180	I now give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2014-11-20-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'll only respond to one thing, two minutes is very little, or three things. One of them, mentioned the one-week vacation, is that a very large percentage, 77 percent of Hungarian families cannot afford it. I think there's things on the government that you can do. This has been the case in recent years and before 2010. All statistics show that the economic crisis has not increased this rate either. So it's important, I think, to account for what the government has done, and this ratio has been so high for many years. So in the exclusion statistics you mentioned in Eurostat, it is an exclusion factor, but for example, neither the government's activity nor, for example, the global economic crisis affected this indicator negatively by comparing pre- and post-crisis values. Another important issue is child poverty. In terms of rates, the rate of child poverty has remained stable since 2011, at 23 percent. If you look at the specific numbers, the original specific volume, the number of children, do you see that in 2011, child poverty is the number of children who are? I'm sorry about the professional? they lived below 60% of the median income, this is the EU standard, their share was 415 thousand, and 406,000 this year. Thus, the number of children living below the income poverty threshold has decreased by five thousand each year over the last three years. [[István Gábor Harangozó: The ratio, Mr Secretary of State! How many kids are there?]] This is on the Eurostat website. So when we talk about child poverty, it is good to know that the number of poor children and children poor in incomes in Hungary decreased by thousands every year in the previous cycle. It's math. [[Gábor Bellozó: The number of children has decreased, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Yeah, that's right. I'm just telling you that the number of poor children is constantly falling. One's a lot, I might add. The third question, Mr Banai State Secretary, has said a number of things, and I would like to point out one thing: it is a matter of eating children. I think that if he had added the numbers he quoted, he would have seen that we would have increased the budget lines for the children's meal by more than 10 percent, which represents 5.5 billion surplus budget support in the school year and 600 million in the summer children's meals, which is a 25 percent increase. So I think it is also important for the protocol to remember that budget subsidies will increase significantly in catering, which will allow 438 thousand children this year to receive a discount meal during the school year, and more children will be able to participate in these programmes in the summer holiday against 124-125,000 children this year. I very much hope that we will also have your support for these programmes. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2014-11-20-182	I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2014-11-20-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would rather talk a little more generally about a chapter or parts of the draft budget, including some concrete aspects of environmental protection, energy policy and water, so that is my area of expertise within the Jobbik fraction. In general, as regards the environment as a sector, it can be said that it is in constant weakening and degradation, and in recent years its ability to assert interest within the government has been reduced. This started in 2010 with the end of the separate environmental portfolio. Now the Secretary of State is also in rural development? and now it is called the Ministry of Agriculture - within the Ministry of Agriculture, it is becoming increasingly weaker, more and more powers are transferred to other purses, more and more powers, and we see that financial expenditure is also falling, which is a very harmful trend for us, and the experience is that in Hungary, the very dangerous or potentially dangerous pollution will not be eliminated in this way, but is still ticking here as a time bomb. We have seen a drinking water base contamination in Heves County last year or the year before, when a whole settlement had to provide drinking water by other means because in an industrial park previously established, heavy metal pollution, which remained there and was not compensated, contaminated the drinking water base on Abasar, and therefore had to solve the drinking water supply of the settlement from another settlement. But we haven't heard of the fate of the large quantities of hazardous waste found in Hortobágy National Park since. I would still have a long list, since environmental authorities would have a very important role to play if they had sufficient human resources and adequate budgets to carry out their tasks, to identify potential threats such as these and similar, and to oblige those otherwise legally obliged to eliminate them, and it is clear that there should also be a public resource, which, in cases where there is no longer a legally liable polluter, should be the State in these cases. There are several, so dozens or hundreds of such sources of pollution in Hungary, mostly even in the area of industrial areas or defence areas abandoned in the area of regime change, in former Soviet barracks, here there are mainly large quantities of hydrocarbon pollution, but we are also aware of pollution from other chemical activities, the elimination of which has once been the national environmental remediation programme, in which less and less resources have been lost, and at the moment we are not paying attention to these sources of danger. So this is only one part of the work of environmental authorities, the environmental authorities that are forced to farm from an increasing budget. By the way, is it even in question that they are environmental and nature inspectorates at all? Because the water powers have now been completely taken away from them? whether they survive, maintain their independence, or become virtually weightless and lose their significance when they are merged into government offices, because there is also a real risk. So much for environmental authorities. But not only in the area of environmental authorities, it is also in other areas that the sector is becoming less weighted. When we talk about environmental protection, we usually think about waste problems. Another very important problem is the supply of waste to the general public, the treatment of waste to the general public and municipal waste, which is now being carried out by municipal and state-owned operators, which I think does not make the tariffs much more favourable for the population, although this was among the campaign topics here, that the public service fee for the supply of waste would decrease. But it's only one side of the coin. The other side is how and in what capacity these public services are provided and where the waste that is being disposed of from households goes. In many settlements, especially in smaller settlements, there is still no possibility of selective waste collection, no place to take hazardous waste and no place to place it. These would need to be provided with sufficient resources to enable us to comply fully with various EU and, in particular, domestic laws and directives. [[19.50]] Then moving on to the water sector: once again, this area has a rather interesting fate. At first it belonged to the environmental wallet, and then, when the environmental portfolio ceased to be independent, did the State Secretary for Environment for a while? for a very short period of time after the 2010 government change? It was one of its tasks, and then it was first transferred to the Ministry of Interior only to tasks related to protection, and then more and more water protection powers. We said that even when part of it was transferred to the internal affairs, that if it is already taken, they should take it all, because the water sector must be in the same hands, not only flood protection, but full professional management, because if it is fragmented over several wallets, Hungary's flood and inland waterway safety is at risk at all to the proper professional functioning of the water sector. And then this finally happened, and over the years, the water department has now been transferred almost entirely to the internal affairs wallet, but here, too, to flood and inland waterway protection? Which is extremely important? the funds allocated to the budget in this respect are limited. However, we can see that these problems also require increasing resources. Floods and flood waves are increasing and intensifying, but dams cannot be lifted indefinitely. Long-term solutions would be needed, for which, at the moment, there is also a lack of sufficient resources in the budget to address water problems in Hungary, when there is a record price wave one year and a record drought in the following year. Of course, these can only be solved by ensuring proper storage. The Tisza flood reservoirs are part of the solution to this problem, since the water from the flood waves is stored for a while, but it is obvious that when these waters are used for irrigation purposes during droughts, a little more would be needed. Jobbik worked out in detail in its programme how to ensure this, but unfortunately, we do not see any signs of this or any other use of our waters. That's where I'd like to move on to energy policy. It is rumored that the Hungarian Electricity Works intends to acquire ownership of the Slovak energy company or electricity company, at least this could be read in the press, and also that they acquired a share or ownership in the Transylvanian hydroelectric power plant. In Hungary, it is always the government's view that hydropower is absolutely not to be supported by the government, although not only from an energy point of view, renewable energy from a production point of view, but also from a water perspective, could be a solution. The reason why I am speaking in such generalities without going into specific details is because I need to take such large areas of my speech, which have been mentioned very little so far. In energy policy, too? and I will make this very short, because I do not want to take time away from my fellow Members? One of the main messages of the government is the reduction of the rent, how much more, how many billion forints are left in the citizens' pockets. Jobbik has supported the reduction of the rent, and we have voted in favour of any bill that relates to this. However, we would also like to see that from the other side, these measures do not lead to the fact that utility service providers, energy service providers, are completely neglecting their tasks in relation to system operation or maintenance, and thus continue to try to secure the profits that multinational utility service providers have largely exported from the country. And when are these strategically important systems? electricity suppliers, heating or gas suppliers, but any other utility providers? they will be returned to public ownership, and they will be able to be put in a state of adequate technical condition at the expense of enormous costs, so that they do not pose a threat to the supply of energy to consumers. And then I could also talk about the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as the largest energy investment in Hungary in the coming decades. There is already a budget of HUF 28 billion in the Prime Minister's chapter. I think we're gonna have to pay very, very much attention to that here? Have we spoken on this issue more than once? That Parliament is also making an increased assessment of the spending of these resources. This extremely large amount of investment must be transparent, and any appearance of corruption must be avoided, precisely so that the government can avoid both international and domestic attacks. Does the Jobbik want it too? In addition to supporting this investment? If every step of the process were to be fully transparent, and this would be strictly valid for spending resources. I could talk about a lot more about energy policy, but I think the point is, in fact, that in the area of environment and water, energy policy? Any of the areas we're talking about? It's just a system error. These sectoral chapters of the budget would be completely different, and, obviously, if they were to be given an opportunity from voters, they would be transferred from both revenue and expenditure sides in a different way, but they would take longer to present this. I also leave the opportunity for my fellow Members to report on their own territory. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-184	I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó.
u2014-11-20-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Am I going to be one of those? I'm probably not gonna tell you that big a secret? , who are expressing criticism of the budget. The compliments of my fellow Members from the pro-government side can be found in many places. But before I do that, I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State Czibere that although statistics are very important, but do you like to know, Mr Secretary of State, why this Saturday the Teachers' Union is protesting, in addition to the fact that it is also in their own interests. Because, Congressman, Secretary of State, they find that from Friday to Monday, many children arrive in kindergartens and crèches last time they saw hot food on Friday, and the nannys who earn 70,000 forints buy them food until lunch, so that these children are not hungry. I believe that statistics show that child poverty has not changed, but that everyday life and reality are completely different, and unfortunately this is becoming increasingly common, honourable Secretary of State. And statistical data can be looked at, but if reality shows otherwise, it should be accepted. I, too, want to address social issues, social care problems and the situation of local authorities, and I want to put some thought into the budget. Today, it is a particular problem for Hungarian households if any member of the family, whether that husband or wife, loses his job because of a downsizing, and needs cash benefits temporarily or for a longer period. It is a problem because it needs to experience that government measures and government behaviour are now only such as to constantly reduce the amount of resources allocated to social benefits. However, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at it, these people do not turn to the state for help or to the municipalities. It is wrong to assume that if you are to think that these people are actually holding their hands in order to receive aid and that these people do not want to work. Indeed, many people would choose to work if they could, but since there are no real and meaningful jobs, and indeed savings are very small in an ordinary Hungarian household, there is little they can do if they are in such a situation, then they must apply temporarily for financial social care, even if they do? Believe me, Mr. Secretary? There are many who are ashamed of that. They hate to do it, but it's the big stinky situation. These people need temporary help, Mr. Secretary of State, so that their livelihoods can be assured that we can somehow lead them back to the world of work, so that they are not in a position where they can't or can't really hold back. [[20.00]] Compared to this, what do we experience from the government instead of the helping hand? What we see is that every year the amount of aid to be spent on social financial benefits is falling, punishing families who are otherwise in a difficult situation, putting people in a difficult situation, punishing poverty. Otherwise, they will achieve an even worse situation for these people. Of course, we have heard a lot from the members of the government, Prime Minister, from you yesterday, today, that they have a completely different perception of aid, because first and foremost, we need to provide people with work, not aid. It would not be a problem if they were active and prominent in their activities and created real new jobs in the competitive sector, rather than systematically bringing up public employment as a solution, as mentioned as a miracle weapon. After all, you know that this is, on the one hand, provided for a short period of time and not for everyone. By the way, I'm not saying this, but in one of the newscasts last week, Mihály Varga himself admitted it, who said that unfortunately every tenth to eleven people have access to the public employment system. By the way, I also have my opinion on the system of public employment. If not in general, but in some places this is nothing more than a very bad mutant of a feudal landlord system, where it means the service of the public worker himself, as he pleases, and certainly puts people who are forced to do this job in a hopeless position. So they have all the respect and respect I have for them. In the draft law on the 2015 budget, we see, therefore, that the aid for social benefits is constantly falling, while we find that since 2010, the number of recipients of this benefit has been steadily increasing. The additional need for increased cash benefits can no longer be guaranteed from constricting sources, and the municipalities deprived of their resources are no longer able to take up this task in a greater proportion than they already have. This is particularly true if, in terms of municipalities, we see that support for municipalities will also be reduced by 25 billion according to the 2015 budget. It can already be seen that support for employment and regular social assistance must be financed from own resources by a large part of county-lawed cities, given that other social tasks do not benefit them because of the tax capacity calculation. And we know that these two items are the most serious in aid. In the case of Szeged, by the way, it means that Szeged is my constituency, that while in 2014 it was worth 460 million forints, only half of which it was able to obtain because of the set-off, i.e. 230 million forints. If I look at the 2015 budget now, it would be about the same number, or HUF 460 million, that is to say, the city would be entitled, but based on the tax power, the callable support can be reduced in a lane. This gives the city only 25 percent, or 115 million forints. The contribution will also decrease from 90 per cent to 70 per cent in the case of housing support and debt reduction aid. And so, from the district offices, care and elderly people's benefits will be returned, which in itself would not be a problem if this were financed. But the support for this isn't 100, it's only 70 percent. And what's the justification for the bill? The municipalities may decide to carry out the aid tasks on their own behalf, at the expense of their local revenues. So it can also be said that it is recorded in a textual manner and that it will also be centrally managed that the municipalities must really use a large part of their income for social care tasks. So what does the government do with this? All he does is pass on the obligation to provide social services to the municipalities, and also the responsibility. It does so by knowing precisely that the social benefits payable are subject to substantial own income, thereby reducing the resources available to carry out other mandatory tasks. Of course, if we look at the context in this way, then it is now clear in the form of tax legislation why the government introduced the municipal tax for the municipalities. After all, when the budget was being set up, they knew that they would be able to provide significantly less money for social benefits to the municipalities, and they gave the municipalities this opportunity as a paramedic. They're gonna have to pay taxes, and from now on, you're gonna wash your hands, and that's a fight that's gonna be fought by the settlements, and that's gonna be their problem. But, ladies and gentlemen, you know perfectly well that today, in an ordinary family, if we look at taxes and look at them in this regard, families have come to the limit of their tolerance. They can't afford any more burdens today. The question can therefore be asked why, at some point in the budget, we find that the state has money for visual investment, while the cash register for social support for families in difficulty is slowly being emptied. It is therefore clear from the social policy side that the 2015 budget will bring further poverty to municipalities and Hungarian families. Poverty indicators and income scissors are constantly growing. In the meantime, we see that the government is constantly drawing funds, especially from the worst-cased and worst-case social groups. In this form, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the 2015 budget, as this means the further deepening of the social crisis. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-11-20-186	I now give the floor to Secretary Charles Czibere.
u2014-11-20-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In order to add two words to the question of aid, obviously also in the defence of the Member, since the proposal that you have read and I will say how will be slightly corrected in the days when it is submitted. The fundamental issue was the aid scheme, when the social support system was transformed, so that those in need could really decide who was in need. If you remember, in 93 when the social law was being created, the same basic intention was that the municipalities, the bodies and the local society could best judge who is in need on the ground and really get the resources and the public money where there is the greatest need. However, 20 years have passed, and over the last 20 years, the different forms of support have become multi-faceted, on a fair, normative and other basis, because it has turned out that their focus is not necessarily good, and thus a fragmented, almost opaque aid and support system has been created. The fundamental principle of the current change is that subsidies that are income compensatory, so it is important to have an income guarantee, a minimum for these to survive, are proposed by the government from 2015 not to be municipal, but to take them to the district level. So both the Fht and employment replacement aid and the RS, regular social assistance in district control, was financed by a 100 per cent central budget? Not 30:70, not 20:80, but 100 percent of the budget financed by a central budget? transforming it into support for regular social assistance by those who can be employed in the fht and those who can't, by providing health-damaged and child-care support. So a new grant appears, I'll say it once again, at district level and 100% financed by a central budget. Thus, the aid will be divided into two groups, the first group, determined by the district, financed by the central budget at 100%, will include the fht, this particular health-damaged allowance, the nursing premium and the elderly's allowance, and the municipalities will be entitled to the additional non-remuneration of the municipal aid as a summary. With this in mind, I think that the state is 100 per cent behind income compensation for active age people in terms of budgetary support, and also that the district office will administer them. I think this is an important change. [[20.10]] Is that what I think? on the assumption that the municipalities, who need municipal support next year, are likely to pay from 1 March, how will they do so? The government is aware that on the basis of tax power, there are local governments that do not have resources, which do not have the resources that can be mobilised, which is why HUF 30-35 billion, I do not know how much it will end, will be available to undertake this particular task, clearly differentiated, as you mentioned, depending on the tax power. I would like to make it clear that the introduction of the municipal tax? About the tax law? it has nothing to do with restructuring aid or social assistance. So any voice that will apply in the next period is that we have to levy the new tax because they are false; therefore, no municipality will be forced to do so, because if there is no tax force, then it will receive support from the central budget, if there is a tax force, then it has already had local tax revenue. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-188	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2014-11-20-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If we split this room up virtually, but on one side, Fidesz and the opposition on the other, we could say that on your side, if we were talking about health care, then everything is good if we're sitting on our side, then it's all wrong. Believe me, they're wrong if they think everything's okay. We also need self-criticism, we are wrong if we think that everything is wrong, because the reality shows that it is mostly bad in the field of health, and that something is still good in it, not because of you, but because of healthcare workers, health care professionals, nurses who still maintain health care and operate it. Do I also have to admit to you that the Jobbik, with his health recommendations, let's just say, selfish, wanted too much of a favor? and will the proposals submitted go in this direction? the third most important area we consider to be one of the priority areas of the country's budget, and this is health. We thought it was much more important to group resources here than to leave resources at TEK, or leave János Lázár's pocket money at the Ministry; we believe that it is much more important to spend on this than on stadiums. I have already said this during the debate, we would prefer to see patients recovering rapidly in heated wards instead of soccer players on heated soccer fields. So there's a big difference, and there's no story: we need money for health care. And to outline this concept for you, first we approach from a distance, then we go into certain details. In a distance, is that the main problem? And did I mention that? That I need money. Hungary, in terms of health spending, is doing very badly compared to GDP, whether we are looking at the Visegrad countries or the OECD average. Hungary has work to do in this area, but it also has work to do in the field of the career model. You have been talking all along about the health career since 2010 that it will be realised that it will be launched. In 2011, this was repeated, and then from 2011 came a huge silence, and in the meantime, both the Hungarian Medical Chamber and various federal organizations constantly indicated that it was necessary to launch, continue, and not just individual actions to make a priority area? Like, like, uh, you know, like, uh, you know, like, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, the, uh, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, You can't wait with the medical career model, and your secretary of state at a last conference said? And this is consistent with the terminology used in the budget? That there is one thing that health workers can trust by 2015: they can count on the government. It doesn't matter what direction the government can expect: whether it will do nothing in their direction or whether it will even start the career model. But the Secretary of State shot the joke because he said that in 2016 the career model could be launched. Compared to this, it seems that six years of governance in which you have done nothing in this direction will be gone by then. The other one that's really important? and further away, is this also an important area in health care? This is public health tasks, because our primary task is health preservation. It is welcome that you have moved in this direction and consider this important, but Jobbik's common position is that we have much more to improve in this area, because if we focus on this area, we will be burdened with much less expenditure in hospitals and much less that needs to be recovered in the health of people. The other is the question of labour and human resources. This was recognised by everyone, but very few can do so, and it seems that neither do you, in this direction, and in how to keep at home workers who are fleeing health care and want to leave. And that's what it's gonna be again? And then we'll go back to the beginning? That we need more money, we need more resources, and we need to provide these resources with credibility, and we can calculate the cost of this career model and keeping it at home in a low voice: if a teacher career model is required for HUF 150 billion, healthcare workers, which means a workforce of nearly 200,000, will definitely need a similar amount. Thus, Jobbik's proposals will also point in this direction that we must start somewhere, and that is what we will make you proposals to go in a direction to raise this. However, taking the most important ones in an exemplary order, which areas should be raised in any case, and what proposals we have: One: in order to maintain health viability, to reduce waiting lists or to reduce hospital cumulative debts, we will also envisage proposals, increases that appear to be not sufficiently or sufficiently foreseen by the government. But we also try to help those involved in the rescue by including the material conditions and personal conditions of the rescue as well as the items to be raised. Is it also very important that few people are aware that the National Blood Service is involved beyond its name in any way? And that's one of the most important things? with Donation and International Donation and Recipient Relations. The most important thing in this topic is that if the Hungarian State is unable to meet certain organ needs from its own market, then it really needs foreign help, which really costs money, maintaining this system costs money, and otherwise it is an effective help, so it also needs extra expenses. For example, we recommend an increase in patient transport and the death delivery prescribed for medical prescription because the grey or black elements that show the full form of this area, so to speak, slowly leaning towards criminals, are becoming increasingly infiltrated in this area. They can be whitened so that we can do these organisations with fair items. But it is also necessary to provide decent money to civil society and non-profit organisations, as they are the ones who help the state out in the tasks that the state cannot carry out on its own. Thus, we also wish to devote additional benefits to these organisations, such as the Hungarian Anti-Crab League. And here are some of the things that basic care was very important to you. It is very clear and should also be supported by Jobbik that the general medical system, which is a gatekeeper for health care, must be supported. However, as I mentioned earlier, we need to go beyond the fact that we only deal with general practitioners, we need to deal with other participants in the basic care, and we need to deal with home care, and we need to deal with the protective services and basic dental care, so in these areas we are also offering additional increases to the attention of the government and the health care administration. Could it also be extremely important for health wage development? What I was talking about? , the career model will be implemented in its entirety. Here Jobbik would start with a 10 percent increase, precisely so that in the coming years we can move forward with an ever-increasing number. Because just imagine the relationship where we talk about raising in different career models? And I think the law enforcement workers are on the table right now? When the policeman, with his own salary, which is already much bigger than what the specialist we're looking for, we say, takes the psychiatric patient off the street, collects the tensions that this creates between a profession, when the doctor who works there and is going to heal this patient is looking for a fraction of the law enforcement worker who collects the patient off the street and brings him in. They cannot be left in the system responsibly, so when you say "a," you also have to say "b" and not highlight a career model individually, but also catch up with health care. The other thing that we also disagreed with is the budgetary duck, which says that the largest organizational change of 20 years has been made, which helps to operate a more economical and efficient outpatient care structure. [[20.20]] This is not true, because they are going to start a new change of structure, and their recent bill is an example of this, and this proves that the previous ones did not work either, you will go in another direction, so nothing has worked or been implemented from what you considered to be the largest and most economical transformation. The Staffing of the National Rescue Service is also very important, because there is a certain development there, but there is a constant rate of tool wear, there is a need to be supported with extra resources. There's one last area that needs to be mentioned. An area known to very few, but also extremely important, and to be supported, is additional expenditure in the European Economic Area or even for planned or emergency benefits outside the European Union or within the European Union. We must acknowledge that not all services are available in Hungary in the present system, so in order to keep the health of Hungarian people and the unity of their families, they must also use services abroad at the most advanced level. So, overall, it can be said that there are good directions in the budget, but we need to be more courageous, more active with the government, and it would be very good if the government could dissipate the doubt that it would otherwise be treated as a stepchild and not spend enough money on health care. So from here, Jobbik calls on the government to finally spend on these, to discard those otherwise wasteful and luxurious investments, and to finally start dealing with one of the most important areas of health, and I repeat myself, do not treat health as a stepchild. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-190	I now give the floor to Congressman Árpád Velez.
u2014-11-20-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to welcome Péter Benő Banai, who was Head of Department of the Budget Department in 2002, and then Deputy Head of Department of the Ministry of Finance of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I think it's a bit false that you're declaring the budget you've created. At the beginning of my comment, I wouldn't have said these thoughts if you hadn't run the mandatory fidesz circle instead of dealing with what was between 2002 and 2010; instead, you've been governing for five years, four and a half years, five years, so you'd have had time to solve the problems. According to the government's communication, we'll be in a better position next year, earning more, spending more, and, of course, saving better than this year. Finally, the success of the struggle for pensions, unemployment and the wrestling of the pension system is a success, of course. The government's vision is that the economy will increase by 2.5 percent next year and there will be 1.5 percent inflation. The planned increase in real wages is greater than the increase in pensions, so the scissors will open up again between pensioner and worker. Even if the prices of everyday consumer goods increase more and more, the overhead costs will be reduced. If it costs more money for bread, milk, potatoes, meat or medicine, then that money won't be enough to make a living on a copper bank. In recent years, we have been hearing more and more about the concept of self-care on the government's side. This is strange because we still clearly remember how thousands of billions of dollars of private pension funds were nationalised. Then Fidesz calculated that the nationalisation of private pension funds in the short term would solve the budget problems well, since almost HUF 3000 billion of resources were in the hands of the government. As it turns out today, all this money could only be abducted by the government. The third pillar of the pension system has been shattered, our savings have been eliminated, but since then the government has not been able to substantially strengthen the pension system. The individual account system cannot replace the void and uncertainty created by the disappearance of private pension funds. This will increase the appreciation of the importance of self - care, which is only an unattainable fantasy for many. Why? The answer is low wages and high prices. Everyday living quietly takes away the chance of receiving a decent pension, which is the sin of the government's pension policy. The government still does not know exactly what to do with the current situation, it has no established, uniform pension policy. It is unable to address the challenges of the pension system, and there are no decisions needed to ensure that the prospect of decent retirement is stable for the future. In addition, the real pensioner consumer basket still doesn't say that there's a pension increase. Until the moment the current budget was presented, the percentage of pensions that will increase next year was uncertain. Until now, the government has said at least three different, unfortunately decreasing numbers of pension increases. First, in September, we learned about the 2.5 percent increase in pensions, second, the Minister, Zoltán Balog, spoke about a 2.2 percent increase, and thirdly another minister, Mihály Varga, spoke on the issue, but then the pension increase was only 1.8 next year. Ladies and gentlemen, This 1.8 percent increase means that our countryman with an average old-age pension will receive only HUF 2088 more per month next year than this year. If we look at things a little more closely, we see that the increase in pensions is a downward trend year after year. Given the scale of the increase next year and the expected inflation rate, unfortunately, the situation of the current pensioners will not be substantially improved next year. They won't live better, they won't be able to spend noticeably more on themselves, on food, medicine or even on grandchildren, because almost everything will cost them now, the government will take more money away from them, the cost of everyday living will increase, thanks to the tax increases covered, let's call it a product fee increase. You'll have to pay more for toiletries, food, plastic products, even plain paper. This is also outrageous because today the system of national cooperation allows tens of thousands of people to live on pensions of 30-50 thousand forints; hunger is many, but not enough for everyday livelihoods. Two or three thousand forints can mean life for small pensioners. Ladies and gentlemen, One of the biggest problems with the future budget is that the situation of small pensioners does not improve substantially, because, as I mentioned earlier, we can talk about a HUF 2 thousand increase for a pension of HUF 116 thousand, until then we can talk about only a few hundred forints for a pension of HUF 30-40 thousand. They are the ones who are sure that they cannot pay their bills, their medicines, and their food at the same time. I would ask the government to examine and take substantial steps to make a tangible improvement in the situation of under-average pensioners. It cannot be acceptable for any government that a significant proportion of its pensioners are forced to spend their retirements under the minimum living age, especially when they have worked their lives fairly and honestly. The government should develop a programme for pensioners, especially small pensioners, that will make this stage easier and more livable. All our retired countrymen deserve this respect because they have worked for this country, Hungary, and the people in it throughout their lives. Finally, I would like to draw attention once again to the need to further strengthen self-care, to pay attention to small pensioners in substance, in order to improve their current situation. Thank you.
u2014-11-20-192	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2014-11-20-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad the congressman checked out my résumé. If you mentioned a year or two, let me mention that I went to work at the then Ministry of Finance in 1998, after the university was completed. I swore then that I would serve the government to the best of my ability. Was it January 1st, 2002? As the congressman mentioned? Head of department, and just because I worked as an official in the Ministry, I can tell you how we lived from the inside to the years when this irresponsible public finance management described Hungary. I know what colleagues' opinions were like in there, regardless of their party views. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Deputy Head of Department. ? Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Yes, I am proud to have served the government to the best of my knowledge, and, yes, I am proud that this professional work was recognised again in 2010 and that I can continue the professional work as Deputy State Secretary, and then not as a professional leader, but as State Secretary in 2014. [[20.30]] Congressman, I can assure you that, just as in 1998 and in 2002, as in 2005-6-7-8, I will serve the Government, to the best of my knowledge. And I am proud to say that, on the basis of public data, as opposed to, unfortunately, neither our real growth has exceeded the average of the European Union, and indeed, contrary to the fact that our general government deficit was less than 3 per cent, Member, it has been over 9 per cent several times, but our real economic indicators are good now. And when we talk about the 2015 budget, we can say that we have the coverage of a lot of extra expenditure. [[Gábor István Bellozó: At what price?]] As far as pensions are concerned, Congressman, you may remember that there was a government parliamentary decision earlier on the abolition of the 13th month pension. You know that there was also a parliamentary decision that laid down in the Fundamental Law the preservation of the real value of pensions. This basic statutory provision was born after 2010. But after the regulation, let us look at concrete actions and how pensions have evolved. I agree with Mr President that it is important to preserve the real value of pensions. This is guaranteed not only by the current legislative environment, but also by the concrete steps taken so far. What, all these years? If we look at KSH data again? we see that the real value of pensions has increased year after year, thanks also to the reduction of the rent that has, yes, left more money for pensioners and which has resulted in the real value increase mentioned. In this respect, the next year's budget also contains a clear rule, a 1.8 percent increase in order to preserve real value, and, of course, there is a legislative provision under which, if inflation were to be higher, an additional increase could be made in November. Allow me to briefly address the concerns raised by Mr Lajos Kepli and Mr László Lukács. I think that the suggestion made by Mr Lajos Kepli on the issue of water contains a lot of truth. It is a fundamental responsibility to preserve the water flows to Hungary and to use it for good, so next year's draft budget bill contains programmes for the conservation and subsequent exploitation of sources, water sources and water flows from European Union sources during floods. So the problem raised by the Member, I think, is that the government wants to deal with it. As regards the points raised by Mr László Lukács, I believe that there are a number of tasks ahead of us in the area of health, but I must remind everyone that, in recent times, the government has taken a number of measures in the area of health. Remember that two steps have resulted in a wage increase for nurses and doctors. Of course, it would be good if more resources could be provided, but I still have to remind everyone of responsible farming. A program has been launched by the government, which we are confident will be able to continue. Not only the wages of nurses and doctors have increased, but the residency scholarship has started and next year's budget includes HUF 10 billion in the proposal to strengthen the general medical system next year. Finally, let me mention one more item. This is an amount of EUR 60 billion available to reduce the debt of budgetary bodies, which can be used in a significant part to reduce the debt of health institutions. I would add that the principle of responsible farming is also reflected in the proposal. This amount of EUR 60 billion can be used to reduce debt if long-term financial stability can be ensured at the same time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-11-20-194	I now give the floor to Congressman László Kiss.
u2014-11-20-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think you have misunderstood my fellow Member, Mr Árpád Velez, because it was not Árpád Velez, who questioned your professionalism in connection with Mr. State Secretary's impressive professional CV, but it was just himself when the on-call chapter of the Fidesz parrot commissary was belched to us from the last eight years. [[Deterioration in the benches of MSZP. ? Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] I think that this, of course, was unworthy of this work, even though these tales, how much someone, as head of department, as deputy head of department, resisted this professionalism [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Obviously, everyone in this House believes that. There is a very interesting Latin saying; I like these sayings: today for me, tomorrow for you. Therefore, I think it is important that when we talk about the past 8 years, which is not the last 8 years, because four and a half years of fleeting moments have run out, while you have been given excellent opportunities by the Hungarian people to govern, but instead you have only increased poverty, so if we continue this past eight years, then at least someone who has nothing more to do with those budget lines than me. However, if we look at the chapter on national policy, which I would like to say here, I have tabled 13 amendments in this area. 13 is an unfortunate number. If only 12 were accepted by the House, I would be very pleased, I can tell you. So if you think that we do not accept this unfortunate number, then we can have one less; because if we look at the budget lines of the chapter on national policy and the chapters on the national policy area, then these items have either fallen or remained at the level, which is easy to see is not a success story in the context of national policy. If we are talking about what remained on the level, for example, the grant amount of the Foundation for the European Interest Representative of the Hungarian National Communities in the parliamentary chapter, which was 80 million forints earlier, has also remained at the level. But not to accuse me of what my former Fidesz fellow Member said about the opposition, that we are only changing it into the world, and then we are not counting on the consequences, as if there were any basis for this accusation; but if we accept this accusation, then I can say a point on which I can say that there is even a lot of support that you are giving. This is the National Strategy Research Institute, which was regarded by many as an unknown institution or phantom institution, with a support of HUF 1.3 billion last year, and a HUF 1.2 billion is planned for this year. However, if we look at it more closely, we can see that last year has not been able to spend this amount; some 460 million forints have been blocked from here. This lockdown could also take place because the National Strategy Research Institute, as a phantom institute, did not have a website for a very long time. Although Director Jenő Szász said that the nation strategy has its own, that it is spread through oral tradition, it is a rather expensive oral tradition, it was about HUF 1 billion oral tradition in the previous calendar year, but it is certainly a step forward, and I think that an opposition representative should acknowledge progress. Now there's a website for this National Strategy Research Institute. It is instructive to go up here, because if you want to support this institute by more than HUF 1 billion this year, it has programs. Obviously, they're spending this money on something. I suggest to everyone: there is a very interesting ear or point on this website in the lower right corner, and I would say this only in relation to the location, when it is possible to recall what programs the research institute will implement next year. Let's just say I could count on a finger the research or programs that are listed here. Which is too bad because I have to say it? And the progress is also made here? , very important programs have been implemented from this HUF 1 billion. For example, NSKI supported the first meeting of the Mangalica farmers in the Carpathian Basin, but also the Szekely Ball in Budapest. These are very important national policy strategic tasks, in which it is obvious that a research institute has a very important task at the first meeting of a mangalica farmer for up to HUF 1 billion; however, neither professional publications nor other interesting research can be found in the research institute's repertoire, or, if so, it has not been so well accounted for. [[20.40]] But if you look at this research institute, you can see that you have spent HUF 37 million on postings, advertising, representation, holiday contributions, HUF 4.3 million, and only 42 000 on the purchase of books. This is obviously due to the fact that the research institute is smart and doesn't have to buy a book because they write the books that no one has seen in secret. The Hungarian state generously gave 1.5 million forints to buy journals, but the competent and well-owned National Strategy Research Institute only spent 323 thousand forints of this, since obviously a scientific research institute is not responsible for expanding the professional journals in connection with the research repertoire. You can see how it can be classified what kind of work this institute, to which you are throwing extra budget money unnecessarily, is capable of doing. I can say that, for example, this is a number of my honourable members of the Government, where I think we can leap into a fantasy that we could spend about one billion forints on a more important task of national politics, such as financing the second Mangalica festival. The Hungarian Legal Aid Service in the Carpathian Basin was removed from the 2015 budget proposal. This is a HUF 50 million item. So you can say, I'm sure it would cost at least two Mangalica festivals. I think this line is definitely better. Nor does the support of the Central European Assistance Service for Cross-border Initiatives change. It is important to talk about this here only because it is the service that finances cross-border projects and cooperation initiated by municipalities and the civil sector along Hungary and its borders in other countries of Central and South-Eastern Europe. The reconstruction programme across the border was designed for 8 million HUF. Do we feel that way? Have I said this to the government on a written question before? That's an important project. We believe that monuments beyond our borders are worthy of spending on the protection of monuments as national treasures of all Hungarians. Supporting programmes of Hungarians across the border, supporting national policy activities. A very large cut is already taking place here, with HUF 5.4 billion in 2014 and HUF 3.8 billion in 2015. If you consider that 300 million HUF of this is transferred to the Bethlen Gábor Foundation, it is still possible to say that it costs about 1.3 billion HUF less in this hat. The Carpathian Region Business Network, which, from a very important national strategy point of view, would fit in in the external economic direction that you are so fond of, here the Hungarian National Trading House is not included in the 2015 budget proposal, we do not know how much support you will receive this year. There is also a significant reduction in cross-border educational tasks. Previously this was a single item, now 306 for higher education, and 281.6 million forints for public education. The sum of the two amounts to approximately HUF 588 million. This is 80 million forints below last year's amount. So it can be said that here, too, is a significant reduction that has been planned. Support for cross-border cultural tasks will be reduced from 57.5 million to 42.6 million forints this year. This is also a significant reduction. The Unlimited! Supporting the programme, which would enable the expansion of the knowledge of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin in relation to cross-border trips to classes, will be reduced from HUF 1.5 billion to HUF 1.2 billion this year. This is also very interesting, because it has also come up at all kinds of professional meetings that it would be necessary not only for Hungarian children to go on a class trip to cross-border areas and come here from a school across the border, but also for such a relationship between the regions across the border. Mr. Secretary of State Potápi called this an excellent idea before, compared to this the Unlimited! There's a lot less money for this program than before. Support for Hungarian higher education institutions across borders is significantly reduced. But also support for the development of ecclesiastical public education institutions across the border. The appropriations for the Bethlen Gábor Fund are set at the same level as they were this year. So it can be said here that there has certainly not been any progress that you are talking about. Education education support is a very important, long-standing neurological point of national policy support. It's been going on since 2001. It is often disputed how this is distributed, how professional it is, but there is no doubt that since 2001, this is an important support system for the Hungarian community across the border. The amount of this was insufficient already in 2013, and in 2013 you reduced the education and training support, as well as teaching equipment and textbook support from HUF 22 400 to HUF 17 200. Now, at the moment, it can be said that no progress has been made in this area, that the education-education aid has been finally raised and that the reduction that this aid suffered in 2013 should be re-established. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that national policy is an area where relatively small resources can be used to achieve relatively significant successes; it is an area which represents the unity of our nation. At today's meeting of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, we unanimously adopted a resolution setting the direction for the next year on the subject of national policy. That is why I ask you to support the socialist proposals that are appropriate to this spirit in the course of the amendments. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-11-20-196	I now give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2014-11-20-197	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been watching the debate for three days, and I must be honest with you that everything has been going on like it's always been 24 years. I would therefore like to compare two periods: 2006-2010 and 2010-2014. With the period 2006-2010, the situation is that what the opposition has said has unfortunately worked and has succeeded in bringing the country into bankruptcy by the then government. While over the past four years, they have said almost the same thing all the time what opposition representatives say today, and interestingly, the country's economic performance is better. What's different is the tone and style. I would strongly draw everyone's attention to the fact that it is in the building of the Hungarian Parliament, and in this building it is my belief that it is appropriate to speak culturally, even if some of my fellow Members liked the tone of the protests, such as the tone of the last demonstration, especially the goodbye. However, I think that in addressing one another, in giving opinions about one another, it is appropriate to speak with integrity and culture. I have not seen this before, in the last three days it has been today, when many, especially on the socialist side, I think that they have not expressed themselves quite as they do in this House. I'd like to ask you to go on a time trip. In May 2010, the country was in a state of bankruptcy as you left it: government debt was 84 per cent, deficit was above 6 per cent, unemployment was rising at 12 per cent, pensions and wages were reduced. That's when the Orbán government came. In May 2010, I do not believe that there were many people in this House who would have said that by 2014, the general government deficit would be below 3 percent, we would be out of the excessive deficit procedure, we would increase wages, we would increase pensions, we would have reduced inflation to almost zero percent, but we would certainly have reduced to less than 1 percent, and we could have plans such as the 2015 budget, such as the increase in wages for law enforcement workers. I don't think that if we had told them that this was going to happen by the end of 2014 there would have been someone who didn't think we were a little crazy. 'Cause, yeah, it was a goal that was impossible to see back then. Of course, can you say now that please, you have to give me more money? That's what the good guys say, isn't it? The LMPs, I see, are no longer coming into the House; they always have the problem of speaking little; now they have more than 28 minutes, but they have not come in. [[20.50]] So, you can ask for more money for everything here, so I'd like to draw your attention to one thing. The fact is that what the government has planned in the past years, in the past four years, has always been achieved, and so will I believe in 2015. Exactly what you said, Secretary of State, because they are behind the government with full professional integrity and have put together a budget that can be implemented. Several people in the debate have tried to hurt public works and public workers in the last three days. Today, for example, they called it a feudal landlord system. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: For it is.]] Why, please, would it be a feudal landlord system where people in Start work produce tomatoes, peppers, herbs, livestock, possibly take home from the goods they produce, or if the municipality sells it, improve the Start work, perhaps even form a social cooperative and create permanent jobs for these people? I don't think that's a feudal system. These people should appreciate their work, and as many people as possible should be able to work in order to be able to work in the competitive sphere afterwards. I can only give you the example of my own settlement: we started the year with 90 unemployed, we had 70 public workers, today we can no longer hire people in Start-work, because there is no one to hire, and more than 20 people have been placed in the competitive sphere in the last year. We ran out of unemployed five months ago. I think this also shows that this is an example of a small village, but this also shows that we are on the right track. One of my fellow Members also mentioned the banding of business tax. I'm sorry, but I don't know what would happen to small villages like what I was just talking about, where you can't collect business taxes? and there are at least 1,500 of these in Hungary? If they didn't have the business tax laned, and where there's no business tax, they wouldn't get the money. It is quite obvious that it must be banded so that settlements where they can collect a very large amount of business tax can take solidarity with smaller settlements and benefit from it. The local government. I would like you to see that the municipalities are far better off with the funding of tasks. That's what I'm saying as a city leader. It's not perfect yet, but they have a lot less problems than before. Because before that, they received funding, say, 40 percent for school and kindergarten education, and today their kindergarten education is fully funded. Once again, the situation is not perfect yet, but it is going in the right direction, and the problems are much smaller in the settlements, too, in the small settlements. As for the sentences of Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, young people are going abroad. Look, I was in '96 in Dublin. Still, a lot of young people went abroad. I was on the plane with a bus driver who went on a bus for three or four months. That was in '96, not today. It is not since 2010 that young people and Hungarians have been going abroad to work abroad, but the truth is that since they could do so, since the change of regime. He said that if we had converted foreign exchange loans in 2010, the foreign exchange lenders would have received HUF 1000 billion. I'm reporting that more than HUF 1000 billion will be returned to the foreign exchange lenders by making the banks account now. So the goal that you wanted to achieve with your contribution has been fully achieved. I don't like it when someone calls Hungary a colony. As a Hungarian citizen living here and as a representative of the Hungarian nation here in the Parliament, I challenge myself to call my country a colony. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] This country is not a colony, there are independent people in this country. Independent people live in this country, and I think anyone who thinks their country is a colony may not be in the right place here in Parliament. [[The intervention of György Szilágyi.]] Do I have to say it again? I'm happy to listen to you? If you think your country is a colony, then I don't think you're in the right place. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-11-20-198	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2014-11-20-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me be very brief about my first reaction to my colleague, István Happy, who said here in some way with regard to the opposition that we can only talk about it three days ago? Although the budget debate has only been going on for two days, but anyway, am I putting this idea in parentheses now? That we'd give extra money for everything. No, let me tell you, for example, I was talking yesterday about what you shouldn't give money to, where I would take money. Honestly, I wouldn't give Andy Vajna a 100 billion forint gift. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] From here, we are deeper if we can spend 100 billion forints on something else. Well, what else can you spend it on? I would like to say a few words about this and I would like to return to the debate on the previous day for a short time. In particular, when the Secretary of State said how well the municipalities benefited, and it is a pity to grieve so much for their fate, since the government took over 1,300 billion forints of debt from them. And somehow we always talk about this thing, especially the government, as if this 1300 billion forints had disappeared, vaporized into the big air? And that's not the case. The fact that it's not the debt of one of the public sector's sub-schemes, we're not saying that we've turned it into a public debt, but that doesn't mean it's gone. I translate it into Hungarian: Kósa, 20 per cent; Lajos, 25 billion forints of debt, which the state took over, now all Hungarian people can pay in the same way. Is that good? Is that a fair system? I wouldn't think so. The government is constantly talking about the extent to which its scope will be extended to the municipalities. I think that, while we are talking about room for manoeuvre, let me give the government two ideas that would actually expand this margin. For example, give back 60 percent of the vehicle tax. Stay with the local authorities, we're about to expand the margin. Or the other: restore the system so that it has a stationary part that can be used freely, say, 8 percent? Not so long ago, it was eight percent, Mr. Secretary of State. Now, you're using that miracle weapon to get a municipal tax. My fellow Member, István, did not tell the House yesterday, but said that he knew a recipe for what could be introduced as a municipal tax. Unfortunately, such a sure recipe has appeared in the Hungarian press, which, to tell you the truth, is quite tuning. Especially if that's what my fellow Member thought. In particular, to tax the Hungarian land. I think that would be a very, very bad message. I'll tell you why. Because? Yes, by the way, if we are returning to the idea that you also raised the question whether Hungary is a colony or not, is there now more than a million Hungarian hectares? And do we know from one of your former State Secretarys? There's land in the hands of strangers. Unfortunately, they don't own this land yet, but they own it through pocket contracts. I think that if we think in the land tax, it will primarily hit the Hungarian little man and will lead them even more to sell their land to the great colonists, because it is still difficult to maintain, it is difficult to farm, the Hungarian farmers are in an extremely vulnerable position. So with a land tax, we'd steer them even further in this direction. And believe me, it would not be Benetton, for example, who, with 5,000 hectares in Somogya, is not farming or lurking under his own name, to be more precise, but rather by the, that is, according to your local tax, not taxable; or, in respect of another 2,000 hectares, by means of pocket contracts, we would not be hurting him again. So it's a very, very bad idea, a very bad system, and I really wouldn't recommend it to you. I'm gonna keep going, and I want an answer to that. Why is the next one in the bill? There's a chapter reserve that's going to be drastically reduced right now. But with a decision from last year, let me tell you what this looked like. I heard from the Secretary of State of Tállai that, on a package of decisions made last September, when these extraordinary additions were decided, the Secretary of State said that there was a need for 60 billion, probably 40 billion of which was based, and we have 20 billion forints. I think that all 60 billion were actually well-founded at the time, and in fact only 20 billion were allocated that month in September. But if we're looking at this in the light of last year's data, shouldn't we have expanded this chapter reserve rather than you significantly narrow it down? In fact, a significant part of this is even strapped. I'll give you an example. The city of János Lázár, Hódmezőlázárhely, will only receive HUF 1.2 billion from this chapter reserve for investments in real estate. This is the most ridiculous explanation I've ever heard in my life. [[21.00]] Why was it not written in one piece in this law that the pocket money of János Lázár, HUF 1.2 billion, was not written? This explanation would have been much clearer, more honest. That's my opinion. And of course, the chapter reserve has all kinds of stadium construction, and this, and that, in those fidesz cities, is still burdened and narrowed down, so it's definitely not a good system. I'd still like to get a very noble answer. Minister Varga said that bureaucracy should be reduced, that the institutional system in the municipalities should be transformed in terms of efficiency and savings. Doesn't this mean that the limit of 2,000 people, which is the limit for the establishment of a self-government office, will be raised to 5,000 people next year? Am I right? Mr Secretary of State Pogács, I would like you to answer this particular question, because otherwise I think that bureaucracy is not in the mayor's offices. For example, it's in the number of State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys, which we now know is multiplying by division. Maybe we should start saving money there. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-200	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2014-11-20-201	I would like to say to Mr István happy that it is interesting to hear what happened in this Parliament from 2006 to 2010 because I believe it is interesting to hear this. Did I look like an outsider then? That you guys didn't really go to work at the time. But that hasn't changed since then? And I'm a member of this Parliament now? If their boss shows up, they're gonna sit here, and then they're gonna pull me out of this building the way it's supposed to. So the situation hasn't changed since then. He said that in this Chamber it is appropriate to behave with culture and integrity, and it is very good that Congressman Pócs is here with me, and I hope that he knows what his own fellow Member was talking about, and many of those benches. Can I get your attention? And is it good that Secretary Czibere is here? That today is the World Day of Children's Rights. When this budget is so extolled, today was a conference of the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences where, according to their own studies, they say the same things that we say here in the opposition. It'd be nice if you'd pay attention. I have said several times during yesterday and throughout today that if you do not believe us, at least believe the professionals that there is poverty in Hungary, and what is most drastic is an increase in child poverty. I would say again to Congressman Pócs if he remembered by 2010 what it was then. Today at the TAB meeting, we discussed the forinting of Swiss franck-based loans. In 2010, the franc was registered at 185 HUF, the euro at 265 HUF. Keep that in mind, Congressman. Today, the franc is recorded at HUF 253 and the euro is recorded at HUF 305. What are you talking about all the time? ! About what? These numbers are true. You know, I still have to tell you that the forint's first fall was exactly when they formed a government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] And Lajos Kósa stood up and smashed the forint. That's what you're talking about, Congressman.
u2014-11-20-202	I now give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2014-11-20-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I don't know why you've been meaning to tell me [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Know that! He knows!]] But if you think so, I won't let you go. Congresswoman! The only thing that bothers you is Fidesz, István Happy and several Members, you have not even won a municipal election. You were brought in by others on their backs. I believe it's good to be wise, to say great things, but Congresswoman, because you have sour grapes and sour grapes for your party... Look at you. How many are there? [[Interpreting from the lines of the MSZP: For example, more than you! ? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You were voted out three times this year. Congresswoman, if the grapes are sour, it's up to you. But if you've reached out to me, then please allow me to repeat what you expect me to do. In Parliament, it is a disgrace to a female Member, a mother, when on several occasions with regard to the budget, the only thing he can say is that he is rebelling against the unity of family and marriage. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Where did you read this?]] It's a shame for every congressman, for a woman, for a mother specifically. You must be sad about your family when you go home, Congresswoman. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, my God! ? Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is it possible to sink deeper? ? Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-20-204	I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on today's debate. Yeah, there's an applicant. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-11-20-205	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm just wondering, listening to Happy Stephen, how proud he is, by the way? And you'd probably be proud? To your village, where you were mayor. Then why are you sitting here at the National Assembly? Why did you leave your village? Why did you leave those people where you supposedly did such a good job? Why didn't you choose that? Why don't you act as mayor right now and continue building the community you're saying you thought was so important to yourself. That's one of my questions. My other question is, if you have chosen Parliament, then why are you speaking as if you are controlling that settlement at the moment. Or is it possible that you just planted someone and continue to run that settlement? These can be answered. Is it true that I haven't been watching this whole budget debate for three days because it's only been two days? You've been watching him for three days, you told me at the beginning of your speech, I've only been watching him for two days? But I'd like to get some answers from you. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-11-20-206	Ladies and gentlemen, We're discussing the budget, so it shouldn't be personal for the last few minutes. Let's try to stay on point. I give the floor to Congressman István Happy.
u2014-11-20-207	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is very simple, Mr Szilágyi: I was elected mayor five times in that settlement, and I chose the representative because an area trusted me. And I live in my village, so I can safely say it's my village, because I've lived there since I was born. That's my answer to you. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-20-208	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. Péter Benő Banai has the floor.
u2014-11-20-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With regard to the comments made by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, I have to say that, of course, the debt taken over from the municipalities will remain part of the public debt, but on the one hand, the municipalities have been freed from a very significant burden and, on the other hand, the central government debt control centre can carry out a much more professional debt management by using uniform exchange-rate hedging transactions than many municipalities individually. As far as the amount of the chapter reserve is concerned, I think that a positive change is the fact that not only do local authorities receive resources in a system that includes subjective elements, but also increases the amount of normative aid. This is what next year's budget bill is about, among other things. Municipal standards are increasing. In parallel, a reduced reserve is sufficient to finance municipal tasks. We certainly have a different opinion on economic policy. I think it's natural. In all European countries, there are different views of different parties about the budget throughout the world. I think that so far the budgetary laws, the economic policy measures that have been taken so far, have shown that the economic policy and the budget policy that the government has chosen and the Parliament has voted for have been successful, both at macro level and at the level of individuals. This is the policy that the 2015 budget proposal intends to pursue. Finally, allow me to hear the positive words from the words of Mr László Kiss when he spoke about national cohesion and the nation as a whole. At present, a government that has not only the confidence of Hungarians living in Hungary, but also Hungarians across the border could vote in the parliamentary elections, and Hungarians across the border also decided that the government working after 2010 should continue this economic policy. As far as the figures relating to the specific national unit are concerned, Mr President, I would remind you and everyone that there really are some items that do not rise from 2014 to 2015, but let us not forget that this government, in the spirit of national cohesion, has significantly increased expenditure on national cohesion after 2010 and expenditure on Hungarians across borders. It intends to maintain this growth in 2015. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-11-20-210	Ladies and gentlemen, The time frame for the factions present has expired, so the general debate will be adjourned and will continue in the noon hours tomorrow. [[21.10]] We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a post-meeting speech: The people have the right to drive the government away? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-11-20-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's true that I wanted to talk about something else today, but yesterday I didn't get to the end of my schedule, and then I promised to finish it. I said several times yesterday and today that if you do not believe us, the opposition, then believe the people, and yesterday I quoted a letter from a citizen, and I would continue to do so. The letter continues: It is necessary to invest in education, which you are now systematically digging through. I'm not talking about the digital signs, because it's really important, though it's less important that the kid with the ripped bear on Piripócs responds to morals with his gnawing stomach next to the digital sign. It's about raising children to life instead of being bullied. That, in addition to teaching girls that hairy arms suck, education for sexual life should be taken more seriously, so that they know that everything has consequences, and that the consequences could be a child or cervical cancer. Because, you know, Minister, it's like a stadium issue. If we're past everything, if no one in a hospital dies from being sick in an unheated ward, if every child eats at least three times a day, and not by having their parents stop eating on their own once everyone has a job that fits their skills and abilities, if it's not a luxury for a family to go to a zoo or a movie, then I think the opposition will tell us to... build a stadium. If every household has soap, towels, toothbrush and deodorant, I don't mind, let's discuss cosmetic issues with the children. But until then, there's still plenty to explain, obviously, with reason, according to the age group, but also with boys, you have to be aware that they have a responsibility. It should be noted that these children are no longer to be enlightened in the classical sense, nor should they be told about the sanctity of the family. Family's important, of course. But don't you decide what an ideal family is like. We need to talk to the children, we need to have a dialogue, we need to give them a chance to ask questions, and in this process, you and the decision-makers have a role to play in giving teachers and professionals time, money and opportunity to form this dialogue. Today's children have to be taught what will be counted on the adults of tomorrow! But I think we should spend some time, maybe some money. And, of course, you'd have to think about it, not just putting the template you're making on public education, and then mow it down, which doesn't fit under it. Why do they not understand that the future is in the children? Why don't you understand that in order to have healthy, happy, balanced children, maybe we should invest in social networks, health care, education? Why is it that in most places in Hungary today, the patroness, the family supporter, the social worker is holed up in some low-smell, bounced place where one enters and loses the will to live? And in the meantime, these underpaid people are trying to do their job, but the 10-20-30 years spent in the machine are killing people out of them, and all they can see from those who turn to them is that they have a problem written on their foreheads. No, you don't have to think for them. Help doesn't mean they don't have to do anything. But if you're on the floor, don't kick it down any further. Don't give me fish, give me a net? Indeed. But how about teaching people how to use the net and getting fish? Let's not kid ourselves that this is a short-term job. It's a hell of a long drive, but it's worth it. It would be worth raising the social workers, it would be worth investing in them. It would be worth it if you consulted people who know about local affairs. I think if I ever asked Nóra L. Ritók or Gábor Iványi if they would help me help these people, they would. Yeah. It would be years of hard work to change the attitudes of those who break down and bring those who have already fallen back to society. But if grown-ups don't change? But they change, all it takes is faith, trust, and work? The children, the children of their children could live differently. However, as long as they do not realize that the ban, punishment, humiliation, stupidity of the people are not winning, we remain the tired inhabitants of a devastated country. I'm younger and inexperienced, Minister, but from my studies, I think I've done this before. This is an important sentence from the citizen:, As a close, I'll tell you: it didn't end well. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I ask with great respect for the pro-government politicians to take seriously the words of these people. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-11-20-212	Ladies and gentlemen, To speak after the last agenda, Mr László Kiss spoke with the title "Băsescu, the ally of the Hungarian Government."
u2014-11-20-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would now like to make a few quotes in this comment from Mr Orbán's friend, Mr Traian Băsescu, the Romanian President still in office. You know, I'm a teacher, and I believe that the child is developing with age. I have to say that Băsescu, on the other hand, has not progressed, but has developed in his anti-Hungarianism over time. The friendship of not only Băsescu, but also of Băsescu and Viktor Orbán has developed, so not only anti-Hungarianism, but also this friendship. I'd like to talk to you about some of this. You can get as much self-determination as Craiova. On 16 March 2006, in Székelyudvarhely, where an autonomous meeting was held the day before, President Băsescu said this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. If minorities receive collective rights, then the Balkans and the Black Sea region, as well as part of Europe and the Russian Republic, will be in great trouble in the coming years with regard to territorial unity and security. A precedent such as that of Kosovo must be preceded. What's the matter with you? said Traian Băsescu as a friend of Viktor Orbán on 23 August 2008. On 2 February 2009, Viktor Orbán's friend said to the question of MTI in Budapest, after negotiating with his friend Viktor Orbán that there will never be any territorial autonomy in Szeklerland, Romania is a single nation state. On 12 February 2009, ten days later, he repeated this, excluding the previous slip of the tongue:. There is no such thing as territorial autonomy. said Traian Băsescu. Then he said:. In the offices managed by Hungarian mayors there is ethnic cleansing, i.e. the exclusion of Romanians. Territorial autonomy would mean border crossings and its own justice in Szeklerland. This was also said by Viktor Orbán's friend on the same day. [[21.20]] On 19 March 2009, Viktor Orbán's friend accused President László Sólyom of constitutional violations, who, in his view, opposes the basic Romanian law on territorial autonomy. On 18 July 2009, before the audience of the Summer University and Student Camp in Idolos, Mr.László Tőkés and Mr.Orbán reiterated their earlier position, which has been repeated several times before Viktor Orbán's friend, saying that autonomy is equally appropriate for all communities in Romania and that there is the same degree of self-determination in Székelyudvarhely, such as Caracal or Tulcea, he said on 18 July 2009. We can continue with the line, but I do not want to be in the mood to listen to Băsescu quotes at 10:30 p.m. in the Chamber of the Hungarian Parliament, because many of us may not be able to sleep very well this evening, so I will not use the five minutes, so I will reassure everyone, but still allow me some quotes from Mr. President? I apologize to Viktor Orbán's friend, I almost forgot to add that. He agreed and supported the plan to raise the parliamentary entry threshold from five to ten percent in spring 2010 by a friend of Viktor Orbán. This clear anti-Hungarian measure was also criticised by former heads of state Ion Iliescu and Emil Constantinescu. This is a very good thing because none of the former heads of state could be identified specifically as a supporter of the Hungarian cause, but Viktor Orbán's friend went beyond that in the spring of 2010. The Prime Minister's friend said in connection with the Szeklerland Representation Office, opened in Brussels on 2 June 2011, that there is no Szeklerland. I wasn't there, but you can imagine the situation when the Szeklerland Representation Office is opened in Brussels, where the Romanian head of state participates, and the Romanian state tells its citizens, not a little bit of self-consciousness, that there is no Szeklerland. Obviously, everyone had some kind thoughts when they heard this sentence from Viktor Orbán's friend. Am I never going to encourage the posting of illegal symbols on public institutions? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's friend declared it, referring to the Szekler flag, which, by the way, is on me as well. Then Băsescu would probably not be willing to shake my hand if he saw this illegal symbol. Although it's true that I'm not a public institution, you might make an exception for me. And then he kindly added that I'm gonna take your flag off, man, you can put it in your yard, you can use it at the end of the week, but he doesn't belong in public institutions? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's friend made sense of the correct procedure. I apologize once again, but I did use the five minutes, but it may have been instructive to remember the words of Viktor Orbán's friend at the end of his presidency. I wish I didn't have to make another comment like that in four years. Thank you very much.
u2014-11-20-214	Dear Parliament, That is the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, we will continue the work of the Parliament at 9 a.m. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 21:21 p.m.]]
