u2014-12-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 21st day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform this House of the death of our former fellow Member, László Kapolyi. László Kapolyi was Minister of Industry between 1983 and 1987 before the change of regime, President of the Social Democratic Party of Hungary since 1994. In the 2002 parliamentary elections he obtained his mandate from the Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county regional list as a joint candidate of MSZDP and MSZP. In 2006 it was included in the Parliament on the national list of MSZP. He was a member of the Parliament's Economic and Social Committee, the Energy Sub-Committee and the ad-hoc Committee on Research and Innovation, the President of the European Union and the Joint Sub-Committee on Science and Technology Policy. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Today, Mr Róbert Sallai, on behalf of Mr Benedek, on behalf of the LMP, asked for a speech before the agenda:. What else does the government hide about the support for multinationals? It's an address. Congressman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Two press reports from last week that got my attention, and I thought maybe the government could exchange ideas about how it is. The first: Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said to the Handelsblatt newspaper that Hungary has an interest in making foreign businesses as profit as much as possible, as the profit is higher, so much more tax will be paid in Hungary. That was the first news. And the second news was obviously more publicized, and this was about the earlier announcements by the Ministry of National Economy? when you announced 1.2 billion forints in support of the Audi plant? In contrast, as it turns out from tomorrow, the European Commission has actually provided HUF 40 billion in funding for these job-creating investments. All this aroused my interest because during 2007, these multi-enterprises received EUR 1000 billion a year, i.e. EUR 917 billion in support, despite the protest of the Fidesz fraction at that time, with which, I think, the majority of society agreed well and supported the fact that there was no upside down situation, that while 917 billion government support was being given to multinationals, the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector was given 370 billion that year, i.e. around one third. The basis for our shock is that the government that said that it would support the small and medium-sized enterprises sector has not changed that, and that we can practically experience the same trend across governments. Opel received 5.5 billion forints in 2011, the Audi? As it turns out? 40 billion instead of 11.2, Mercedes 22.2 billion, Hankook 16 billion in 2007, plus 2013? Is this going to be a cross-border thing? 18 billion more and the Apollo Tyres 29 billion in recent years. This clearly shows that the trend that the government had promised earlier that domestic businesses would benefit from the market, not only does it not implement it, but it is actually pursuing a hypocritical policy, because this profit, which the Prime Minister has announced, must be seen as going out of the country in full. Since 2010? According to GKI's November records? It was EUR 1.3 billion, or HUF 430 billion, that were exported from the country because profits are not being reinvested. It is not that highly qualified, well-paid jobs are maintained in rural areas, but that they seek profit, they do not respect workers' rights, they try to achieve employment at the cheapest, through various human trafficking and job rental companies, and therefore the social benefits that the government has constantly promised do not come in. In our view, it is not important for the multinationals to make a great profit, but it is important to pay their employees locally and fairly, to respect labour standards, and all this development should fit into the local economy and produce in an environmentally and humane manner. But we don't see that happening. And isn't the government doing what it does to take away their unfair profits? last week, have some of us here in Parliament discussed the need to impose a special tax on large trade chains over 50 billion in order to take away the untaxed income that is being extracted? But what we see is that the same multinationals are given more than a lot of support, at most not to it, but to another multi, but to other people, but to give this money completely to others. In practice, this is worrying because we would have expected it fully, and in all communications it was shown that economic development will continue a different policy, the government will go to small and medium-sized enterprises, and even the government has committed itself to maximizing the support to create one job at 5 million forints per job. But in these particular cases, which have been in the past, it's always gone over. We do not understand this trend. If this is such a good economic policy, why do you have to hide the money? Why should the European Commission find out how much aid was actually given to Audi? [[13.10]] Why can't you do it openly? If you want to support small and medium-sized enterprises, why should the proportion of MSZP governments be maintained, a third of the support is given to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, while this small and medium-sized enterprise sector in Hungarian economic sector continues to provide 80 percent of the potential? And obviously, a significant proportion of the funds will reach companies that will take this money out of the country as a profit, and as it turned out from this statement made by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, you believe that the government has an interest in this. We don't understand how it is. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-2	I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2014-12-01-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for raising again the issue of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises before the Parliament's plenum. That's an important question. It is also important for the economic policy and general policy of the government. I think that if the sometimes binding pro-government disagreement is removed from our discussions or dialogues here, then we can reach some agreement at the end, given that from your comments, from you and your fellow parties here in Parliament, you are committed to supporting Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. That is how we are, honourable Member. If you believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are the spirit of the Hungarian national economy, then we agree on that. All the more we agree that about three quarters of Hungarian workers are employed by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but we also see that the share of this sector in Hungarian exports is barely more than 15 percent, according to certain measurements even lower. This is not good news, but I think that this could be a very serious source of growth for the Hungarian economy in the future, so that the government will continue to pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises in the future. Is there no doubt a debate about that, honourable Member? Not only in Hungary, but all over Central Europe, but can I say that it is probably all over the world? whether support for small and medium-sized enterprises in a given country can be more effective directly or indirectly. Here, following my discussions with the leaders of several countries starting from a similar start-up situation in the region, I saw that they agreed that indirect support might be the best tool. Therefore, when we support large multinational companies settling down in our country or making new investments in our country, we think that these subsidies are as much about small and medium-sized enterprises as they are about supporting the large enterprise in question. Because I think we can also agree that the key to the success of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises is whether or not they can connect to the supply chains of large international companies that are producing at our place. We have witnessed a number of success stories in recent years, so when we provide individual government-based support to large companies that produce new investments in our country, we always start consultations on how we can increase the Hungarian share in their supply chain, which is in the primary interest of small and medium-sized enterprises. Look, Congressman, I do not see anything wrong with that, and I even agree with the Prime Minister's statement that it is in our interest to make the most of the profits of the large companies operating here. I would consider it a strange government economic policy if we set ourselves the goal of making companies operating in Hungary work as badly as possible. This clearly cannot be a sensible economic policy objective. [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] Do we see from the figures, honourable Member, that in the first six months of the year, investments have increased by 22 percent in Hungary? Does that seem to contradict what you were kind enough to say about investments? According to surveys, three quarters of the companies operating in Hungary are planning to invest either in new investments or would otherwise reinvest in Hungary if they had to make such an investment decision. At the same time, I would also like to inform the honourable Member that the national portfolio has recently issued new applications for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with a budget of HUF 8.5 billion for the expansion of production capacities, with a minimum of HUF 10, up to HUF 100 million, and another HUF 1.5 billion for the promotion of the market appearance of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, I would also like to inform the honourable Member that this year? based on an individual government decision? the government awarded a total of HUF 43.6 billion of individual government support to large, international or Hungarian-owned companies operating here. I just want to let you know [[Wind Bernadette's intervention:]] ? Yeah, is that what I'm saying? that with this HUF 43.6 billion we were able to facilitate a total investment of HUF 468.9 billion, which meant a total of 9303 new jobs in Hungary. I think that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this is economic policy from the right national economy perspective and from the point of view of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-4	Mr Zoltán Gőgös, on behalf of the MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Chaos, corruption, lack of prospects.
u2014-12-01-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Chaos around rural development subsidies. Chaos in the implementation of running programmes, chaos in the preparation of the next EU programme. The managing organisation of rural development subsidies was turned upside down by the government: the former one-handed remedy was distributed in June between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Prime Minister's Office. This has led to the closure of the ongoing 6,000 second-degree decisions, but by October it has also been found that the ministries granted the right to make decisions do not have an EU mandate and therefore cannot take legal decisions. It's chaos, because the Minister for Agriculture has entrusted the Vice-President of the MVH with no President to propose it. [[13.20]] That is against the law, fellow Members. As a result, the countryside could lose billions of current EU funds. There is chaos, because so far there have been only three things important for János Lázár: getting the funds, moving the Csongrád county office from Szeged to Hódmezővásárhely, and the competent State Secretary from 1 January to Kecskemét. The latter results in the loss of the majority of skilled professionals. This is why the preparations for the next year's grants stand. The situation is spookily similar to the situation in 2002, when our neighbours have already paid SAPARD subsidies, and we have inherited a 300 million useless study from the first Fidesz government on this subject. This is also confirmed by the fact that everyone other than us has been able to make use of fruit support, which we have not. There is now a state that there is no new IT system behind EU programmes and there are no finished legislation. This is also confirmed by the fact that the government itself is aware of this, since in the 2015 budget, the amount of payments for applications is only HUF 48 billion. Of course, there is no need to include direct subsidies, these are about tender money before someone says that this is not true. It is chaos because it has been promised to strengthen the agricultural sectors most affected by rural employment, which there is no sign of it in the 2015 budget. The foam on the cake is that the government does not comply with the government decision adopted by itself on 30 July. What is strong about this government is the legal basis for systemic corruption. In the future, it is not incompatible that a state leader may sign a grant decision of his own company. The commercial law, the 6 percent plus sales tax, helps all friends to make more profit. The local keepers still do not win the Hortobágy pastures, but, for example, the Kissers of the capital. We are not surprised that the Kehi report reviewing applications under Prime Minister's orders has been encrypted for ten years. Did anyone assess what we talked about so far, for example, in the countryside? Less jobs, less investments, less agriculture, hunger, cold, in short, lack of prospects. While there is a lack of prospects in the countryside, the operators of the national co-operation system are offended by the public's interest in how a pro-government representative's living room grows more than once in days. [[His cell phone's ringing.]] , how to pay 600 thousand forints of net income from 700-800 thousand forints per month, how to make a 180 million house for a young politician living in politics. For those who have a problem raising their daily bread, it is irritating for politicians who vote to withdraw aid, disability pensions and other benefits to travel on a million-dollar journey, while one of them knows so much about tax laws that again cripple the little man by taxing the metal caps. Dear House, The government needs to hear the voice of the people, and there is an urgent need to change the policy leading to 4 million poor, hundreds of thousands of starving children. The changes will be helped professionally, as we have helped to resolve the chaos around the gardens. But we are protesting and fighting with every means possible against government policy that threatens the existence of small people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-01-6	I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2014-12-01-7	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Apparently, the voters had already called him while he was talking, his phone rang. They probably don't understand what you're talking about in this House either. In any case, I'd like to quote you from a letter: "Corruption has executed the socialists and the liberals. There is no former socialist or liberal voter who cannot list his own corrupt businesses, whether they are ministers or mayors. László Lengyel, a well-known left-wing politician, wrote this in his 2009 analysis in the World Economy of Week. Honourable Congressman, If you asked for the word "Chaos, Corruption and Probability" before the agenda, then we thought you were going to talk about your own party. If you are talking about corruption before the agenda, then once and for all, face up to the pregnant legacy that is still a huge burden for the entire nation, the whole country. When you are talking about legislation that underpins systemic corruption, honourable Member, you are actually talking about nothing but the system that you knowingly operated for years during your governance. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, it's not true!]] When you talk about hundreds of thousands of people starving in Hungary, you forget that next year's budget will also provide the basis for 270 thousand children getting a free meal and 150,000 children getting a half-price meal. [[Zoltán Grimlock: And how much did you take? ? Dr. Bence Rétvári: We doubled it!]] We have doubled, thank you very much to my fellow Member. [[Noise.]] I listened to you silently, as usual, not even excited that your phone was ringing during the parliamentary session. Dear fellow Member, When you talk about agricultural subsidies, you are actually only projecting your desires, because the Hungarian economic society is behind us, the Hungarian economic society has voted for us in confidence, and this Hungarian economic society has the government behind it, it has the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture, which has given land to Hungarian farmers in an unprecedented way, while you have rented the land without bidding in a stika between 2002 and 2010. It's the truth. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Applause on the pro-government side.]] Dear fellow Member, I do not want to live to see you taking the lead instead of former Socialist Member Gábor Simon in another hunger march, but as anxious as he spoke here in Parliament, this does not seem to be hopeless either. Honourable Member, what you are doing here is saddening. [[Zoltán Grumpy: That sad-ass thing you said, man! ? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-8	Honourable Congressman, on the left! Please consider what you're yelling at. That you regularly yell and don't let the answers be answered is one thing, but insulting your fellow Member and Secretary of State doesn't fit into the rules of any parliamentary system. So please reduce yourself, or I will be forced to impose sanctions. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann, a member of the KDNP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The message of hope? the title of the papal visit. Congresswoman's got the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-9	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On 25 November, the head of the Catholic Church and Vatican State, Pope Francis, visited Strasbourg to meet with officials and parliamentary representatives of the European Union and the Council of Europe, and to send a message to the peoples of Europe and the world in the two parliaments. Twenty-six years ago, there were no similar events in the EU institutions, so the fact of the visit was of historical importance in itself. Although the Hungarian press reported on the event, the Christian Democratic People's Party emphasizes that in my modest interpretation here in the Hungarian Parliament, the defining thoughts of the Holy Father have since passed the world press. I, together with my fellow Members, Attila Tilki and Gábor Harangozó, received the honour of being present in the Strasbourg Chamber, of seeing his Holiness at close range, of expressing himself, and of listening directly to his words through French simultaneous interpretation, which were the moral manifestations of a high authority personality based on Christian teaching, not in a religious but political context, and which were summarized in the final speech of the EP President Martin Schulz on the ground by providing guidance in a world of misdirected and direction. It would be impossible to mutilate the contents of these two speeches with one or two highlights. As a representative of KDNP, I was, of course, looking into how the Pope's messages could be translated for Hungary. Now, listen carefully, my fellow Members and fellow citizens: we have received serious confirmation that Hungary is on the right track under the leadership of our government. Our values, for which we have been flogged almost without a break by the political leadership of a number of countries, are the same as those expressed by the Holy Father and which both the EU and the President of the ET Parliament have assessed as guidance without a single critical voice. [[13.30]] For what did Pope Francis emphasize? For me, the most important idea was that man should play the central role in all our activities, who is primarily not an economic factor or a citizen, but a transcendent personality, a one-time and unrepeatable, divine being, and in whom to trust. Whether he is sick or old, he has dignity and rights. His right to peace, to responsible freedom and to no one to treat him as a commodity, and that the role of the family in human development is unquestioned. He stated that the rights of man are not equal to egoism, that the freedom of a person is coupled with responsibility and duties, and that the service of the common good is first order. Did he also speak of the decisive role of education in the context of the constant development of the entire personality? For the record, this is what we call education; in French, do the two words mean the same thing? who will serve the common good and will not be a lonely, egotistical individual. He had something important to say about the European institutions. The EU must return to the spirit of the founding fathers, find its soul and conscience again, and not rip out its roots that feed on the truth, and that only in the knowledge of the past can a future be built. In the EU, as you said, technology and bureaucracy have been absoluteized, i.e. they have confused the purpose and the means. He talked about sustainability, saying that we need to protect and preserve Creation, because the land is not a free gift, it is not its owners, it is its guardians. In addition to these, it has addressed a number of other issues, the importance of work, the unacceptable unemployment, the situation of refugees, the need to resolve religious conflicts, and so on. The words of Ferenc the head of religion and state were spoken by politicians of many ideas in Strasbourg, in silence, and I risked, aweeded, and, after the end of both his speeches, they expressed their approval and agreement with an incessant iron applause. We can only wish for Europe and for ourselves that the moral and political messages quoted in this regard will be able to pass on the actions in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-10	Once again, Minister Péter Szijjártó has the floor to reply.
u2014-12-01-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for recalling the Holy Father's thoughts here at the plenary of the National Assembly. We all know, and I think that there is no debate between the parties in the Hungarian Parliament, either, that the European Union has been facing serious challenges for many years now, and that, in order to find the right answers to these challenges, we can address these challenges, above all, we must remain true to the roots and traditions. I think that we should not stray from Christian values, because the European Union is able to rely on these values as a resource to meet the challenges it faces. Ladies and gentlemen, We see it exactly as the Holy Father: the peoples of the continent have enormous creative energy. We therefore confirm our position that the European Union can be strong if it is made up of strong Member States, and there is no scenario that the weaker Member States are, the weaker nations are the European Union, and that it will be stronger. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We see, as the Holy Father said, that the principle of solidarity and decision-making close to matters must link the Member States that make up the European Union. Of course, we also see that the foundation of society is family, and we also agree that the honour of work must be restored. In fact, I can say that we also see that Europe will be strong again if it can restore the honour of work and family. We have taken a number of steps in this direction in Hungary over the last few years when we introduced a proportionate tax system or when we made it possible for parents, depending on the number of children raised in the family, not to pay personal income tax on some of their salaries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This already has results, since while around 1.8 million people worked and paid taxes in Hungary in 2010, the number of people working and paying taxes is now over 4.1 million. And that means breaking a 22-year record. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, We agree that we are all responsible for the future of Europe, which is why it is very important that we study the sequence of numbers that reads as follows. About 7-8 percent of the world's population lives in Europe; here in Europe we produce about 20-22 percent of the world's total economic performance, while here we distribute 50 percent of the world's welfare expenditure. It is clear, therefore, that such a system is not sustainable in the long term, but there is a need for responsible management, continuous reduction of public debt and budget deficits. For us Hungarians, for all Hungarians, it is also a reason for pride that Hungary is one of those who proved that it is possible to produce economic growth at the same time, create jobs and conduct responsible budgetary management. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We see good news from this point of view that the new leadership of the European Union, the European Commission, has just come up with an investment stimulus plan of EUR 300 billion, which the European Commission and Hungary expect us to be able to respond as best as possible to the economic challenges facing the European Union. We think it is important that the resources of this investment incentive plan should not, of course, be the resources of cohesion or the common agricultural policy. However, the European Commission can, of course, count on Hungary's support when we talk about increasing investment and investment. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that it is undoubtedly important for the future of the European Union that the European Union cannot shut down, that we must look to the future with courage. It is important that we take the liberty of expanding the European Union. And it is also very important that, as a Christian Europe, we take responsibility for the fact that, if Christian communities in the world are in danger, as is unfortunately the case now, then Europe should act and defend these communities. Once again, I would like to thank Mrs. Congressman for translating the thoughts of the Holy Father here, even before the Parliament's plenum. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-12	The leader of Jobbik's group, Mr Gábor Vona, is now next:. The Hungarian foreign policy dilemmas, strategic thinking and seeking consensus on the worsening international situation. It's up to Team Leader.
u2014-12-01-13	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In our history, we Hungarians have paid many times a heavy price for not dealing with foreign policy and international relations in the right place. I have asked to speak on this subject today, on foreign policy and international policy, so that we do not make this mistake. I think we are all interested in this, because today's situation is very serious and has very serious problems. I would like to assume that according to Jobbik's position, vision, foreign policy concept in continental space, Hungary's most important strategic task is to develop the best possible political, economic, cultural and diplomatic relations with three countries, three powers and three major powers: Germany, Russia and Turkey. In this triangle, we lie at the intersection of these three areas bordered by great power, and we must settle here in the most harmonious way possible. Why these three countries, I may not have to explain it, but allow me to think of a few reasons why these three countries were chosen. It is not only because they are great powers, they are close to us, and they represent a political and economic weight for Hungary, but also that these three countries, all three of them, can open a portal for us: Germany towards Western Europe, Russia towards the Eurasian regions, and Turkey towards the Islamic world. It is not by chance that we have fought the most with these three peoples, three nations in our history, perhaps Turkish, Russian and German weapons have caused the most loss for us, and so have we. That's no coincidence either. We also need to learn from this historical experience, and we need to decide whether we want to be on the front line with these countries, we want to create a conflicting area, or we want to establish a peace area, we want to be a bridge with these countries. Hungary's strategy must be its strategy to settle for the best relationship. [[13.40]] You can love it, not love it, either one of these three, one or another, but it's not I love it, I don't like it, it's facts. We are in the focus of these three countries' foreign policy interest. This was the case in the past, is it so in the present, and will it be so in the future, that is, for Hungary? Say who? It is vital that you not only strive for the best political and economic relations with Germany, Russia and Turkey, but that we do our best to avoid the possibility of a war conflict with these three countries, so that we do everything we can. Why I'm saying this, I'm afraid, is because it's topical. Unfortunately, this danger exists for Hungary in the case of the Russian pillar. If we look at the processes and events in Ukraine and put the mosaics that take place there side by side, we can see that this mosaic line is pointing in the same direction, and unfortunately, over a year or two, it is not excluded that there will be an armed conflict between NATO and Russia. I wish, and I ask the good Lord that this speech today be rebutted by time, that it should be included in the populous camp of speeches in Parliament that were not needed at all? There's a lot of them. But I'm afraid that time and present processes justify my concern and fear, and we need to talk about it. I know and Jobbik knows Hungary's national obligations, we know the international treaties, we know the consequences of our NATO membership. We also have to say, and we have said this many times, that Hungary has been involved in numerous conflicts during NATO, and has played a role in war that has not only been of no interest to Hungary, but has also proved unfair. Even then, we have expressed our displeasure several times, but the situation here is much more serious. It is not a distant conflict, but here and now, even if it is not clearly visible in all aspects at the moment, but there is a danger that Hungary's peace will be threatened. In this situation, we must say that there is no international treaty and any resulting obligation to override the importance of Hungary's security and peace, to override the rights and needs of Hungarian people for peace and tranquillity. This must be the first and leading aspect, not to mention that when we joined NATO, we joined a defence alliance, and NATO is increasingly starting to act like an attacking alliance, and let us say that this conflict is not NATO, it is not the conflict between the European Union and Russia, it is certainly not the conflict between Hungary and Russia, but the conflict between the United States and Russia. If the European Union and NATO are not able to articulate this and are unable to take action as a result, then we, Hungary, must enforce our own interests against the European Union or NATO and say that Hungary does not wish to participate in this conflict, Hungary wants peace and neutrality, Hungary does not wish to engage in war with Russia as a result of any international pressure or pressure. I ask my fellow Members that, although some of my words do not feel current yet, they should remember it in the coming weeks, months and years, and that you, too, do everything you can to ensure that the Hungarian people, who have suffered a great deal from weapons in the last centuries, do not put themselves in such a situation again. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We cannot allow Hungary to destroy us again. I ask you to support peace and neutrality. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-14	Once again, Minister Peter Szijjártó has the floor.
u2014-12-01-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Chief of Staff, If I wanted to summarise briefly what is in Hungary's interest in the international political, economic and cultural space, which is surrounded by continuous changes, then I can tell you that Hungary's interest is that everyone is interested in Hungary's success. If I can describe Hungary's interests as geopolitical here in three words, then I can describe this to you as peace, energy security and ever-growing trade relations. If we put Hungary's foreign policy and foreign economic policy around these ideas, I think that this is the best hope of success. We're interested in peace. This means that, in the specific case you referred to, Hungary is interested in resolving the conflict in Ukraine as quickly as possible by negotiated means. In fact, we can even increase this, Mr Group Leader, by saying that if there is a country on earth that is in the interest of resolving the crisis in Ukraine quickly and negotiatedly, then Hungary is certainly such a country. However, we also believe, Mr Group Leader, that this solution should rest on the Minsk Protocol. I think that this is now more than less combined or surrounded by consensus in the international political space. We agreed on this not only with the European Union Foreign Affairs Council, but also with Minister Lavrov when I recently had the opportunity to discuss this issue with him in Moscow. At the same time, I would like to say to you here that Hungary is committed to Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty, and we will always be loyal, as we have always been loyal to the decisions made by the European Union in connection with the conflict in Ukraine. Dear Chief of Staff, It is in Hungary's interest to have a strong Ukraine in our neighbourhood from a political, economic and democratic point of view. We therefore agree with the European Union Foreign Affairs Council on the need to see the reform agenda, which will bring Ukraine to the implementation of the structural reforms that are necessary for us to count on them as a truly stable neighbour for both economic and political and democracy. At the same time, Mr Group Leader, I must also tell you that Hungary fully agrees with the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union that we must maintain political dialogue with all actors in the crisis and events. I think that we do not have to argue for a long time that it is in the interests not only of Hungary, but of the whole European Union and indeed of Europe as a whole, to have a healthy, balanced partnership with Russia based on mutual respect and respect for international law. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, In addition, Hungary's interest in peace here in Central Europe is, of course, also the issue of energy security, which is why, as Hungary has always done, it will continue to support any development, any investment and raise its voice at all the European Union's forums, which will also make it possible for the countries of Central Europe, including Hungary, to secure its energy supply. We will clearly take action in cases where we experience cases within the European Union where certain energy investments do not fully comply with EU standards. Finally, Mr Group Leader, it is in our interest to have the most active trade relations in the region, so we will continue to support any development and investment in the coming period that strengthens the role of Hungary's transit route, and we will continue to support any development that will lead to more favourable trade flows in Hungary and, of course, we count on our most important trading partners in such processes in particular. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-16	Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, on behalf of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. The congressman has the floor.
u2014-12-01-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are nearing the end of 2014 and this is the second year in Hungary when the Hungarian economy will definitely close this year with growth above the European average. In 2013, the growth of the Hungarian economy exceeded the average of the EU-28. In 2014, we can say on the basis of the data available for the second and third quarters that the strengthening of the Hungarian economy is the third best figure in Europe. We are not simply talking about the fact that the growth of the Hungarian economy exceeds the average of the European 28th, but we are talking about Hungary having reached a beating position in Europe in terms of economic growth, the third best result is the Hungarian economy, and the third best result is the Hungarian companies and farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, the Hungarian economy did not create worse conditions for people, but better conditions. Let's see, in 2013 and 14 we can clearly say that employment in Hungary has increased and unemployment has decreased. The results of 2013 and 14 are that in recent years the unemployment rate increased to 12 per cent by 2010 has been reduced to nearly 7 per cent, and the employment rate in Hungary is at record level; there are more than 4 million 100 thousand people working in Hungary, which we can say has not worked since 1990, so since the change in the system, there have not been so many people working in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, We can also say that while the economy is growing, jobs are increasing, employment is improving and unemployment is falling, while inflation in Hungary is at a very low level. In Hungary, inflation has not been as low in 40 years as it was experienced by Hungarian citizens in 2014 or before 2013. [[13.50]] I think there's no need to overexplain, everyone knows very well that low inflation is good for people. Thanks to this reduction, it may also be due to the fact that in recent years we have done a lot to stop and control banks and bank costs, but we have achieved that inflation is again record low in Hungary for the first time in 40 years. Ladies and gentlemen, Economic growth, declining unemployment, high employment and low inflation, which is also outstanding at European level, belong to the standards of a strong Hungary, to a strong Hungary, which we have created in the last two years by bringing together Hungarian people, when we have also made difficult economic decisions, created the basic conditions for growth, set up a public employment programme, started an increase in the number of jobs, and, fellow Members, we have done the reduction of the rent and regulated the banks. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, not all of these measures have clearly supported opposition representatives. I would like to remind you that there are still Members in opposition lines who could not accept either the results of the elections or the government's goals in the period after 2010, for the first time in 2010, there are opposition representatives who provided active support for a financial attack on Hungary. After that, a significant part of the same Members of the European Parliament and of the European institutions continued to assist in a political attack on Hungary between 2011-13, all of which served to weaken Hungary. If Hungary is weak, we cannot achieve these goals, we cannot achieve high growth, we cannot achieve improved employment, we cannot break down the costs of overhead, we cannot achieve low inflation. Ladies and gentlemen, It is in everyone's best interests that Hungary be strong, economically strong and able to enforce its interests. In this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today, I think that we often believe that we are seeing the same signs that we have seen after 2010 too. Today, there are those who cannot accept the results of the elections, and there are those who are interested in Hungary being weak. That's not what we're interested in. We want and will also protect the results of the Hungarian people's cooperation, we want and will be able to protect outstanding Hungarian economic growth, improving employment, and we will protect low inflation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-18	In response, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, I think that we do not need to emphasise the importance of economic growth, its meaning is seen in the same way by the government and the faction, because if there is growth, then there is employment, there is employment, there is income, there is income for families, there is income for the state, there is revenue for the state for Community expenditure, and there is re-production, that is, there is investment. In my response, I would like to focus on the importance of investments and the progress made over the past period. In the third quarter of 2014, an increase of 16.3 percent was measured on an annual basis, and in the sixth quarter, the investment continued to grow in Hungary. Over the first three quarters of the year, nearly 3400 billion investments have been made in Hungary, which is 20 percent higher than the previous year. The data confirm that the investment has made an outstanding contribution to the growth of the Hungarian economy in recent years. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] This is particularly true for 15 sectors of the national economy, where there has been continuous expansion over the last three quarters of the year. We have also achieved outstanding results in terms of machine investments, with a growth of 22,2%, but the same is true for works, which increased by 12.2 percent. The investment activity of the manufacturing industry was 10.8 percent, and the automotive supplier sectors contributed mainly to this, confirming that further significant growth was generated through the supply chains of automotive companies established in Hungary. In addition to the manufacturing industry, infrastructure development has also done well, as the performance of transport and storage has increased by 38 percent. In addition, the results of administrative investments exceeded 50 per cent, and this is also true of the results of water purification and sewer projects. In addition to the above, we registered a 20 percent increase in construction, 37 percent in catering, 24 percent in health care and 37 percent in the art sector in the third quarter. Overall, it can be said that the government's programme is ripe, that the government's transformation has brought fruit and that the conditions for lasting growth have been established. We believe that the Hungarian National Bank's growth loan programme has also contributed to this, which has improved its low funding capacity, thereby strengthening the financing of the Hungarian economy. Of course, there are tasks left before the government, as this growth must be maintained and made permanent, which is one of the tasks of next year's budget. In Hungary, it is an important task that in the future EU support will serve to strengthen the economy and to develop the economy. To do this, the government will do everything in its power to support Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and businesses that basically create value, produce, industrialize, invest in machinery and, of course, create jobs. We believe that Hungary has taken a course that sets out, underpins long-term growth and thus conditions for prosperity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-20	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Mirkóczki to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-12-01-21	Dear Parliament, László Varju, independent; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP. On Tuesday's day, the following representatives came forward: Bernadett Szél, LMP; Zoltán Lukács, MSZP; Miklós Soltész, KDNP; Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. On Tuesday, Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Ikotity István, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.On Wednesday, he applied for a post-scheduled speech: Tibor Bana, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP.
u2014-12-01-22	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. I have tabled my proposal for the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, and the keynote speakers as chairman. I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules. In this he initiated the Parliament's T/1794 on Hungary's central budget for 2015. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the bill, the Committee on Budgets may submit the summary report and the summary amendment by 8:00 p.m. on Friday 5 December, the head of any group up to 10, the House Rule 48. You may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. So I ask the House whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules in T/1794/554. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the proposal by 163 votes to four, without abstention. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. On this basis, I propose that V/1925 on the causes of migration from Hungary and the possible solution to the process be stopped. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a four-hour time frame. I would like to inform you that the Group of Jobbik and LMP is the House Rule 37. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of this Article, it has requested that the time frame available be doubled. I call on notary László Földi to present the motion for a time frame allocation with the increased timeframe for Jobbik and LMP groups.
u2014-12-01-23	Dear Parliament, The proposed four-hour timeframe is divided into 83 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 46 minutes for the MSZP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 37 minutes for the KDNP Group, 50 minutes for the LMP Group and 8 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2014-12-01-24	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. So I ask the House whether it agrees that we are discussing the proposal within the time frame that we have just presented. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the motion by 135 votes in favour, 33 against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, The factions have not tabled a motion for the election of a member of the committee, so we do not need to decide on personal proposals today. Dear House, The election of the President of the Constitutional Court by secret ballot follows. Allow me to welcome Mr Péter Paczolay, President of the Constitutional Court and Members of the Constitutional Court [[Dr. Peter Paczolay stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office [[László Domokos stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Peter Darák, President of the Curia [[Dr. Peter Darák stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mrs Handó Tünde, President of the National Court of Justice [[Dr. Fae Hando stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights [[Dr. László Székely stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council [[Dr. Árpád Kovács stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] All the permanent guests of the Parliament, our guests, who will attend our meeting. Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics, Judge of the Constitution, whom S/2238. In my Opinion No.3 on the Constitutional Court, the 2011 CLI. Act No. 7 On 25 February 2015, I proposed to elect him President of the Constitutional Court in my powers under Article 1 (1). [[Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] As of 25 February 2015, I proposed to appoint him President of the Constitutional Court. (Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics stands up in the box of honor. ? Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from Jobbik's ranks. ) Dear Parliament, The Parliament elects the President of the Constitutional Court for 12 years with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. The voting process is as follows: Members can take the ballots in the Danube corridor, in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a green ballot and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. [[Several Members are leaving.]] And please remain seated as long as I present the voting process. Thank you very much. In the course of the vote, please make use of the voting booths at the end of the corridor, and I ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'not'. Now I would like to ask Mr László Földi to briefly describe the further rules of the vote.
u2014-12-01-25	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed only to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot-paper, with two intersecting lines placed in squares with his name attached to him. The vote shall not be valid, on which there is no doubt as to who the Member has voted or how he has voted. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2014-12-01-26	Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I announce that 20 minutes are available to cast the votes, so it is possible to do so for 14 hours 27 minutes. Dear Parliament, I am now ordering a 40-minute break for the duration of the secret vote and evaluation. We'll resume our work at 2.47 p.m. [[Break: 14.05? 14.57 President: Lezszak SándorMessenger: László Földi és Ádám Mirkóczki]]
u2014-12-01-27	Dear Parliament, I ask you to stand up and welcome President János Áder, in accordance with the rules of the house. [[It's happening. ? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. I have established that 140 Members took part in the secret vote. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics presidential candidate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics, standing in the box, thanking you for your applause.]] On the person of Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics, 140 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 2; the number of valid votes is 138; the number of votes is 132; the number of votes is not 6; no votes remain. Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics was elected President of the Constitutional Court with effect from 25 February 2015. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics, standing in the box, thanking you for your applause.]] Dear Parliament, The new President of the Constitutional Court will now take a solemn oath and sign the oaths. I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read out the vows. [[The people in this room stand up. ? Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics steps into the center of the room. ? Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-12-01-28	I, Barnabás Lenkovics, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as President of the Constitutional Court for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-29	Dear Parliament, Now I ask Mr. Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics to present them with his signature. [[It's happening. ? Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics and gives a copy of the signed oath document. ? Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics János Áder, then László Kövér, Viktor Orbán, Dr. Péter Paczolay, Dr. Péter Darák, Gábor Vona, Dr. András Schiffer, Antal Rogán, Péter Harrach, Dr. Péter Polt, Dr. László Trócsányi congratulates him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate Dr. Barnabás Lenkovics, President of the Constitutional Court, and to wish you successful work and good luck. Dear Parliament, On behalf of all of us, I would like to thank Mr Péter Paczolay, the current President of the Constitutional Court, for his work so far. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the parliamentary decision to be published.
u2014-12-01-30	Parliament's decision on the election of the President of the Constitutional Court:. According to Article 24 (8) of the Fundamental Law, the Parliament elects Dr. Barnabas Lenkovics as President of the Constitutional Court with effect from 25 February 2015. Budapest, 1 December 2014, László Kövér [[15.00]]
u2014-12-01-31	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Court, pursuant to Article 24 (8) of the Fundamental Law, lasts until the end of the term of office of the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, I thank our guests for their participation in the festive moments. We are now continuing our work with the debates on the agenda. [[It's a short break. ? Noise. ? Several Members are leaving the meeting room. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the single electronic card framework and the summary amendment proposal will be discussed. The submission was made in T/1761. is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[It's constant noise. ? The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Have a seat, fellow Members. Report by the designated Judicial Committee on a detailed debate T/1761/4. they have been granted a serial number. T/1761/6. by serial number T/1761/7 and its summary meaning T/1761/7. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2014-12-01-32	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 27 November 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1761 on the Single Electronic Card Emission Framework. Bill No. 1. As has already been said in the general debate, the proposal before us has been submitted with the aim of creating a legal, technical condition for a single electronic card issuance system that allows basic technological, procedural, organisational and other framework conditions for standardising e-card issuance. The proposals submitted by the Judicial Committee have been discussed. The amendments basically carried out technical implementation of the legislative need raised, as well as language positioning adjustments. On request, the committee voted separately on point 25 of the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate. As a result of the amendment in this point, the two unique identifiers of the card are now clearly distinguishable from each other. Thus, the relevant wording of the bill also makes a coherent reference to the identifiers needed in each case. In order to achieve this goal, point 25 was finally supported by 24 yes, 1 no and 9 abstentions, while the remaining points 1-24 were adopted without discussion and with unanimous support. In addition to discussing this proposal, the Legislative Committee has not proposed any new amendments. The summarised amendment and the summary report were adopted with 21 yes and 14 abstentions. Please accept the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-33	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr Pogácsás State Secretary if he wishes to speak. [[Tibor Scone says yes.]] It says yes. Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total of 10 minutes in time for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. [[Tibor Scones: Only the closing!]] Then just the closing, thank you very much. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First for Congressman Gergely Bárándy? I can't give him the floor. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik, who is now applying. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]]
u2014-12-01-34	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that the Jobbik faction would be able to support the proposal before us with a calm spirit if new developments had arisen in the course of its amendments, the reasons for its amendment or the rapporteur's justifications which explain our fundamental questions. For example, it is well-known that around 2.8 billion were initially planned for the development of a single card system. Interestingly, a government decision later reduced this to 800 million. The reason for this, and the fact that this amount must be cut from, has not been known to this day. [[15.10]] It can be seen, therefore, that the so-called impact assessment on the draft legislation does not cover this lack of money, but they obviously want to postpone it so that they can develop the IT background, which is necessary for the whole, which is a condition for the entry into force of the legislation. This may be why they are in such a hurry, but it seems that following a thoughtful and decent way of working, let us say that Budapest would not have been in such a position that, according to recent news, a foreign company is building a single card system for the transport network, which you are talking about in parallel in your bill. But then how can two parallel systems be built in Hungary, or at least something is being built now, and then they will head this off with a separate budget? Therefore, until these questions are answered, they put opposition groups in a very difficult position, since it would be essential to support the follow-up to technical progress. Of course, we still have data protection concerns about the fact that a large number of data relating to a central database can be placed in unauthorized hands or in the hands of citizens who do not take them, at least, raise questions. This has not been eliminated either, but the most important question would be what working methods could be going on with the government if it presented something about a single card system to us, while there is already a similar system in Budapest on credit, in the capital, with the participation of foreign companies, at least at the preparatory stage, we could say: simply flipping off the problem, that they should discuss it among themselves. But in the meantime, we want answers to these serious and tense questions here in Parliament, and it is obvious that this is the only way to make any kind of support or rejection conditional. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-35	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-12-01-36	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for your patience. Ladies and gentlemen, We have already said in the general debate that the bill contains an effort which is in principle acceptable, namely that the legislator is developing a standard for issuing electronic cards. What we have opposed and object to now is that this is just an empty frame that will be filled with content only when the cards required by the individual sectoral laws are introduced. What this content will be, we know nothing about it yet, and in the general debate, despite the questions, we have not been able to find an exact answer to it, even at Commission level, even during the hearing of the bill. Therefore, we believe that the fate of this bill will be the same as that of many of its lotteries, namely, that when they figure out what content they intend to fill it with, then this? Let me put it this way? Parliament will be forced to touch the frame again and an amendment will have to be adopted. This is why we proposed in our amending proposal that it should enter into force on 1 August 2016 instead of on 1 August 2015. What I can say is that it is still more fortunate and better to amend a bill when it has not yet entered into force, as it has already done, and, where appropriate, it has already produced certain legal effects in Hungarian society. As far as the amendment closing the detailed discussion of 25 points is concerned, virtually every point of this proposal improves technical, codification or language positioning errors. This reinforces what we have said, that we are talking about a bill that is not very well prepared, and it would be good if this could really be corrected before the entry into force. I therefore call on this House to support the amendment which postpones its entry into force. Otherwise, if this does not happen, the bill will not be adopted by the House. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-01-37	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. The next speaker is Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, LMP.
u2014-12-01-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Have we already indicated in the general debate that, of course, the effort in itself that strengthens the electronic administration and thus gives us an opportunity? through the strengthening of electronic administration? In order for citizens to be more active in making Community decisions, well, all such improvements and progress can, of course, be supported by the LMP. However, in the general debate, I indicated that, in this form, the proposal is capable of violating the fundamental principles of law laid down in the 15/1991 Constitutional Court decision, i.e. the so-called number of Constitutional Court decisions. At the time, in 1991, the Constitutional Court warned that a uniform identification mark could be suitable for any public body to create a full personality profile of any citizen. So in Hungarian: from reading and visiting habits to health, a state body has all kinds of information and can put it together about any of us. At the time of the change of regime, it was popular to have a transparent state and an opaque citizen. I think that this is still timely. In order for Hungarian citizens to be free, in order for Hungarian citizens to fulfil their creative capacity fearlessly, it is necessary to have safeguards, that the state cannot penetrate the private sector without obstacles, that it cannot without obstacles violate the right of information self-determination. In this law, we would have expected a guarantee that, despite the single electronic card, the legislator would not give a free signal to any public body in order to have access to the full amount of information. This guarantee, this brake is currently not included in the proposal. Another concern that we have said is whether, in the current technical conditions, such a card may be suitable for determining the residence of the card holder. There should also be a guarantee rule and a protection rule in this bill that the competent public authorities do not know or abuse the technical possibility of tracing the location of the card holder's nationals. These guarantee rules are not included in this bill. If this is a framework law, then yes, the general guarantee standards must be in the framework law here, because it is not a sectoral requirement that public authorities should not be able to operate freely among the personal data of citizens. It is not a sectoral requirement that the various public bodies are not free to determine the place of residence of card holders' nationals. Secondly, I hope that the idea that guarantee rules would not be regulated by law and that a government or ministerial regulation would resolve these technical deficiencies, so to speak. The provision of the Constitution and the current Fundamental Law were clear, and the word of the Constitutional Court is clear that the rules guaranteeing fundamental rights must be dealt with at the level of law. In view of the fact that this is a framework law, the protection rules for the whole of the area covered by it, protecting citizens' safety and security from power, should therefore have been or should have been dealt with in the framework law. I am sorry to see that this has not happened, and it has not happened as much as the portfolio has not presented an impact assessment in this regard, although this is required by the legislative law as an obligation. In this case, it should have been made clear how this new institution, this new regulation, protects citizens' right to informational self-determination. Such a proposal, such an impact study, has not been met, and therefore, with good conscience, it is impossible to say yes to this law with such shortcomings. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-39	Thank you, Mr. Schiffer Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Several of my fellow Members have not made any comments, so I am closing the debate, and I am now giving the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, and I would like to say that he will state the Ministry's position in a ten-minute time frame. [[15.20]]
u2014-12-01-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the general debate and on the basis of what has been said in the Committee on Justice, I believe that, overall, it can be concluded that there is no objection or opposition to the creation of the single electronic card system itself, namely, that which would have called into question the existence, substance and usefulness of the card system itself. As mentioned or stated in the general debate, the purpose of the bill is to create a framework, a system that ensures the identification of users in a uniform and credible manner guaranteed by the State by electronic means and thus the provision of services linked to persons, the use of entitlements and benefits. This framework, which can be established, creates the most important technological, procedural, organisational and other framework conditions for the standardisation of electronic card issuance, the identification service provided by the State and the background database to address the lack of authenticity associated with the identification. Data protection concerns were raised during the general debate. In this respect, it is important to point out that this system does not contain the eligibility data attached to the cards, does not collect data, only acts as a background register in order to provide the card taker with electronic information on whether the card is valid. In the event that the card is valid, can the information on eligibility and the fact be obtained from the sectoral or market register? So it's not from the central register? , so that the different registration data cannot be linked. It is also important to guarantee that the card-acceptor has access to only the data of the central register regarding the validity of the card during the electronic reading of the card. With regard to the amendments, the government did not support the proposals of its representatives to postpone the entry into force of the law, but the amendments contained in the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate did. These proposals will also help to clarify the text and improve its application. It becomes clear that only self-employed individuals can issue cards, taking into account the fact that these cards should only be displayed for economic marketing and for organisations organised in social relations. The system's durability is served by the amendment that allows the use of not only data chips but also other technical solutions for electronic identification, but does not limit the use of future technological innovations. Finally, the two unique identifiers of the card, the unique serial number used solely as the physical identifier for the identification of the primary cards and the electronic unique identifier used as the electronic identifier of both primary and secondary cards are clearly distinguishable. Overall, therefore, a law can be created that can help citizens' everyday lives in the implementation of this regulation, and a single card system that can be used in all areas can indeed be developed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-41	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. I would like to inform the Parliament that the votes will take place between today's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the establishment of a central register and on the amendment of certain administrative laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow up. The submission was made in T/1709. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Commission reports on the detailed debate T/1709/5. And they got it in numbers seven and seven. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1709/9. and the summary report is T/1709/10. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Since the committee indicated that the minority rapporteur would be named later, I would first ask whether someone would like to present the minority opinion after the Commission's position has been expressed. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy says no.]] I don't see any contact. Thank you, Congressman. Then I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee discussed at its meeting on 20 November 2014 the T/1709 on the establishment of a central register and on the amendment of certain administrative laws. Bill No. 1. The aim of the bill is to create the possibility of a single title and address management. CCXX of 2013 on the general rules for the cooperation of state and municipal registers. The Government is authorised to regulate the rules of the single title standard and the rules of the national single title management at the level of the government regulation, thereby enabling the establishment and operation of the central title register. The proposal was proposed by the Judicial Committee, which aimed at maintaining the leadership of the National Cyber Security Coordination Council with the body that brings together information security and information technology in general, i.e. the Prime Minister's Office. The amendment was agreed by the competent wallet and our committee supported the amendment with 27 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on that proposal, the Legislative Committee has made further amendments, which consist of three parts. One part contains grammatical, linguistic improvements; the other part establishes the fundamental legal nature of the bill and contains the related legislative amendments; finally, the third element of the proposal submitted by the Legislative Committee proposes that the programme part linking the title register to the real estate register should enter into force at a later date, i.e. a few months later, compared to the whole of the law. Until the entry into force of the latter, the addresses shall be transferred not through the electronic register but by individual decisions. These amendments were also tabled by the Legislative Committee without discussion by 26 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention. Finally, the Committee adopted the summary amendment and the summary report with 26 votes in favour, 7 against and 1 abstention in order to create the possibility of a single title and address management. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-43	Thank you, Congressman Hadházy. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, whether he wants to take the opportunity to speak now or at the end of the debate, or both times. [[Tibor Pogácsás: End of debate.]] At the end of the debate. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP. [[Dezső, gullible in the notary seat, is replaced by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2014-12-01-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Just like in the case of the previous bill, we are faced with another failed product of unthinkable Fidesz legislation. As is known to those dealing with the subject, the rules of the address register for the addresses changed significantly from 1 January 2013 and from 1 March 2013 respectively. Following this, the 2013 CCXX. By its entry into force on 1 January 2015, Act No. 5 established a central title register different from the address register, mutatis mutandis. [[15.30]] The regulation did not go very well as the data traffic between the two registers was not collated and the data link was not properly sorted. The errors were first tried to be corrected six months ago by the Law on the modification of certain land laws, which was presented under the name of Mr Font Sándor. An attempt has already been made to establish a link between the title register and the title register. The bill was discussed in an exceptional procedure, i.e. it seems to have been very urgent at the time. The fact that they did not succeed at that time is now proven by the bill before us. There is exactly one month left until the entry into force of the Act on the Title Register, and Parliament is still working to amend it after several repairs. This is sad and shows the quality or lack of quality of legislation. It seems that it is slowly becoming aware in the government of the scale of the challenge that the operation of the title register will pose from next month after such a bitter presentation. This is why the summarised amendment therefore provides that certain changes to the real estate register should not enter into force until 1 January, but only on 1 June. According to the reasons for the amending proposal, this is necessary because it takes a longer time to synchronise the addresses on the property registration map interface with the content of the central database. We believe that this is a realistic and honest face to reality. However, we are concerned that this does not in itself eliminate the problems arising from the basically low quality and, by now, several times, from a well-resolved original law. We agree with the fundamental aim of the bill, namely the creation of a central register, but, after the Commission's discussions and in the light of the summarised amendment proposal, we cannot support the legislative regulation of the title register and its new amendment before us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-01-45	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I give the floor to MEP György Lukács.
u2014-12-01-46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us in the general debate was also spoken in good words and in worse words, and we continue to maintain our objections and our views on what we have expressed. It is to be welcomed that a standard register will finally be established, which can be used and used between several bodies. I think this is forward-looking, despite the fact that the final design has taken place at a very busy pace, but essentially it will benefit both the bodies and the public authorities, but also individuals, that we will finally get a full, interoperable address register that can be applied between us. The other, which is also worthy of recognition, is why it is important to highlight them against criticism, the introduction of a property protection premium. This is also an area where, I believe, progress was important, especially because it whitens the economy, and this was particularly necessary in this sector. However, we still lacked it, and it can still be expressed as a criticism, after the closure of the Commission section, that it would still have been right for the Ministry of Interior to set this fee, given the fact that they only have a better view of it, and that the question of property protection only belongs to them. By the way, this concentration of authority, which is usually carried out by the government itself, is not something Jobbik likes or likes to support. The other one, on the other hand, is completely unacceptable, is Mötv. an amendment to what my fellow Members here also expressed during the debate. Otherwise, they are totally unacceptable in this form, as you would like to carry on. And the critical remarks beyond the Mötv. are that the socio-professional debate still did not take place in this. Basically, and this is what my MSZP colleague has said, because of previous problems, there was virtually no possibility of doing so. It was a tight, stretched pace, a deadline, which, by the way, was of no use to legislating. Take these criticisms, these improved criticisms are directed at themselves, because this legislation, this legislative process, is being degraded and destroyed. In practice, this will result in a lack and inaccuracy of legislation, which is often not even corrected in the Legislative Committee, but will enter into force later. So, in essence, our objections are in the legislative area on the one hand and Mötv on the other. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. So I think that the criticisms must be listened to by the government, and if not by this, but by the end of the day. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-47	Thank you, Congressman Luke. Dear Parliament, A number of Members have not indicated their intention to make comments, and the debate is therefore closed. I now give the floor to Mr Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State for Home Affairs, to give his opinion in the debate.
u2014-12-01-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, After all, with regard to the creation of the central register, I think that there is basically a consensus, so I do not want to respond to the creation of the title register, but rather to other questions. One of these is the powers of the Government Office, or the change in the powers of the Government Office, which affects the municipalities which cannot agree on the establishment of a joint municipal office within 60 days, as far as the law provides. According to the current legislation, there is 60 days for the establishment of the joint municipal office and the conclusion of the necessary agreement. In the event that this happens, you will then have 30 more days to adopt this agreement in a final form. This regulation did not provide an adequate solution to situations where, for some reason, this agreement was not reached between the municipalities. At the moment, there are 19 settlements in Hungary that argue with each other in relation to five joint municipal offices. Here, practically since the entry into force of the regulation, the joint municipal office has not been in operation for nearly two years. One of the drawbacks of this is that the type of administrative work of the local government, which is absolutely expected and necessary from these offices, is not being carried out, and on the other hand, the necessary funding cannot be used by these municipalities. In order to ensure that the agreements do not fall behind or that the financing problem does not persist, the amendment allows the Government Office to establish the agreement. Of course, against the decision of the Government Office, the authorities concerned may appeal to the administrative and labour courts, but the basic condition for the opening of official work is established. It is also necessary to indicate here that the agreement can be amended at any time by the municipalities on the basis of their agreement with each other. The point is not to make municipal operations impossible. In the context of the proposals for a judicial penalty, it is necessary to emphasise that a new legal institution has not been established here. Here, in practice, the Government Decree on the applicability of the statutory supervisory penalty and its re-execution possibilities provides in detail for detailed rules on the supervision of the legality of local authorities. This also responds to the points raised by the Members. Regarding the work of the land offices, there was concern that the law would cause difficulties in everyday work and that the introduction of the central title register would be difficult. I would like to reassure everyone that this will not be the case, as the title register will explicitly simplify the administration of the land administration, the transfer of changes to the address data of the properties will be automatic, automatic, without any administrative involvement. The aim of the bill is to eliminate the parallels of property registration and data processing, to standardise and clean up address data. The principles of the real estate register arising from the classic land register law guaranteeing legal certainty and traffic safety, such as the principle of the principle of the document and the principle of the obligation to make an application, cannot be applied for the automatic transmission of data between the title register and the real estate register. [[15.40]] There is no formal procedure in the traditional sense and no procedural fee should be mentioned. Questions were also raised in the general debate regarding the need to bear this, the obligation to pay a procedural fee. Once again, there will be no such obligation. On the other hand, it is absolutely natural for operators of traffic to be informed in some form of changes to ownership papers even if these changes are made in an automated manner. In view of this, new elements appear on the ownership sheet. This amendment is therefore of a technical nature, but its impact is of major importance. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-49	Thank you, Secretary of State Pogács. The votes will take place between today's decisions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legal acts and the final amendment proposal follow up. The submission was made in T/1767. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Commission reports on the detailed debate T/1767-9.10. have been assigned to them on serial numbers. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1767/12. by serial number T/1767/13 and the summary report by T/1767/13. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the opinion of the minority will be presented in the debate. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby inform the Honourable Parliament that the Legislative Committee held T/1767 on 27 November 2014. The Commission presented a bill amending certain legal acts and 21 amendments and a summary report with 7 sexes and 3 abstentions. Does the summarised amendment include, on the one hand, the amendment? With one exception? the proposed amendment of the Judicial Committee and, on the other hand, the Legislative Committee's own motion. Among the amendments I would like to highlight the 2011 CIX on public service officials. the amendment of the law on permanent external service. Is it the government's decision to exercise responsibilities and responsibilities for European integration matters? With a few exceptions? shall be transferred from the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. According to the further regulatory decision relating to the change, the professional management of the permanent representation in Brussels, as of 1 January 2015, the exercise of the right of employer over the diplomatic and professional staff will be transferred from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. With regard to this provision, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, which was also said at the committee meeting, to the fact that in many EU Member States, matters relating to the European Union are not part of the classic foreign affairs tasks. In the debates over the last few weeks and months, it was the opposition who expressed this position more strongly than the ruling parties. For this reason, it is more than odd for the opposition to make this change appear now that this decision would be against foreign affairs or the EU. This decision raises the importance of these cases by bringing them to the Prime Minister's Office. Among the proposed amendments, which also attracted the opposition's interest, it concerns the change in relation to the ministerial commissioners. In the future, there will be only one limit to the appointment of a Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely that the Minister can only be appointed on matters falling within the remit and competence of the Minister. In this regard, may I point out that you are the Member of Parliament? in accordance with the Act on Parliament? If one of us were to carry out such a task, he would not be entitled to any additional money. Finally, I would like to mention that the Legislative Committee amends and extends the scope of persons who are entitled to a public-law officer's card, establishing the legal basis for the use of the card. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-51	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. To present the minority opinion, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy in a seven-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-52	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On the subject, my fellow Member Vejkey rightly said about the points where there was a real debate between the opposition and the ruling parties and the government. Wouldn't I agree to the contents? Perhaps, with the exception of one that you mentioned, my fellow Member? because I think it is fair to leave the opportunity for the author of the amending proposal to talk about it in substance. One of these major debates was about a better amendment proposal. Obviously, my fellow Member Szilágyi is preparing to give us the content of this, which we can and will also support. About which there was still a debate? Am I going to discuss that in my proper speech? , it has been outlined around the Minister's remuneration. Did the government represent and represent a rather strange, hesitant position? Looks like it? until this moment. However, I would like to say a little bit more about one thing, and this is indeed the new role of the Prime Minister's Office. My fellow Member, Mr Vejkey, said that this would actually increase the premiums on EU affairs, that they would be supervised and coordinated not by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but by the Prime Minister's Office. That wasn't the problem, Congressman. If you remember, in the debate, we first of all opposed that, if you really want to give this priority, I believe that this is how you say that in many countries of Europe there is a solution for a separate wallet for European Union affairs, in Hungarian, you could be a special minister for dealing with European affairs. And indeed, if you saw it as important, then this could have been a way. We had a problem with the deployment of powers to the Prime Minister's Office, not only with this provision, but with a lot of other things that have expanded the powers and powers of the Prime Minister's Office over the past few years, preparing the presidential system in a stealthy way, the preventive system. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert says no to his head.]] Is that for me? And I see Mr. Secretary wagging his head right now, and he's obviously going to react and reflect on it. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] ? At the same time, Mr Secretary of State, no one has argued that the current system, which forms with this amendment and with the previous amendments, would not be part of a parliamentary system. I would like to stress it now, before you take your speech here. It's not that. The point is that when a state establishes a prudent system, it is the simplest decision to make a constitution or a basic law so that it becomes a presidential system. The more difficult part of this process is that it is truly relocating powers to adapt the public administration system to such a constitutional decision. [[15.50]] And you're doing the rehearsal for this now. That's what we said, and that's what we're saying now. It is not that, therefore, I would like to stress it once again, and it was not in the debate, Mr State Secretary, that anyone would question whether Hungary would remain a parliamentary democracy with these amendments, but that before a later constitutional decision, you would adapt the structure well in advance to that later decision. That's the problem, Mr. Secretary, I think you understand what I'm talking about. If you don't, you'll tell me why you don't. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I understand. I see!]] Tell my fellow Member here that he may not know about this plan yet. No one knows about it, but it has been suspected in many cases that this will have a serious chance around 2017. So, ladies and gentlemen, this was part of the debate, and I have brought it here, and I will neglect it in my normal speech, because that is perhaps what Congressman Vejkey said most about the presentation of the Commission's opinion. In addition, opposition representatives who drafted minority opinions in the committee could not support the amendment proposal, and so probably our group will not support at least the full legislative amendment proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-01-53	Thank you, Congressman Bárándy. I will ask Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: In the end. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It would be nice if we could argue.]] Then I give the floor to Congressman Péter Kónya in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The amendment of legal status laws seems technically technical, but in the background, I think there is much more, which is why I asked for the floor. Although my time is short, I'm going to try to get around to a few things. In the spirit of the amendment of the law, it is clear that the government is preparing for a significant downsizing and restructuring, and this is what it intends to do with this legislative amendment, which would in principle be eligible if those fidesz friends and friends were kicked out of the public sector, who, by the way, do not understand their work, but that is obviously not what the downsizing will be about in the public sector. However, it is also apparent that a number of errors have been made in this legislative amendment which show that less and less professional work is being made within the public sector. I would like to mention, for example, that Article 1 (a) (ii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) It is also incomprehensible why, if workers from the competition sector, from the labour code, become public employees, why does the law set fixed wages and not a minimum, why does it not give the employee from the public sector the opportunity to negotiate wages or to enter into a wage agreement with the employer, where appropriate. Since my time is short, I'd like to mention one more thing. If the status laws are already being amended, then it may not be necessary to legitimise the illegal employment of public sector workers within a higher working time, otherwise in some ministries, in breach of the Labour Code, in order to legitimise the ten-hour working hours. From here, I'd like to tell the ministers that not much, but that they should work well. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause from the ranks of the independent and the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-01-55	Thank you, Congressman Konya. I would like to inform Mr Nándor Gúr that a two-minute comment is not possible during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-12-01-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There have been a lot of debates and different views on this law against Fides. We have said that we already consider it a fundamental problem that many laws in different areas of law are being amended by this current bill, so it is a salad law that might have been more appropriate to submit to this House in separate amendments. We also said a lot of times and tried to argue with the Secretary of State at the TAB meetings that a few things should still be changed, even in this law. Let me just say a few things, let me just point out a few paragraphs that we don't agree with at all. One of them is 4. §, in which the law on each obligation to declare property is amended, and in addition to the civil servant, the government official is entered as a new debtor under the obligation to make a declaration of property within the scope of his management mandate. Our biggest problem here, by the way, is that we're still just talking about making a declaration of assets. We are still there, even though the Jobbik Hungary Movement has been pushing for it for a long time now, not only to make declarations of assets, but also to carry out tests on wealth and wealth growth, you still do not have it. We want it to be as transparent and as clear as possible. That's why we have a legislative amendment proposal that's going to be discussed by the Justice Committee tomorrow. I hope that you will support that from here on out, you can or must carry out asset-growth tests and that the property declarations of the relatives will be made public until that happens, of course, by deleting the various personal data, but I hope that you will support this tomorrow. The second is a very big problem here: the rules on the employment of mayors and sub-Mayors and the requirements imposed on them, the employer's rights over the full-time mayor will be exercised by the body of representatives from here on out, and its legal relationship will be public service, then pensionable, basic and supplementary leave. The severance rules are as bad and inaccurate as the legislation currently in force. There is a lack of when to pay the severance pay, how soon after the termination, whether freedom must be paid, how to repay it, if it was not entitled, and the rest, and what anomalies there are. They're not gonna settle this right now. The other is that the mayor can be awarded a six-month reward by the board, and it is formulated as a recognition of his work during a specific period of time. If you lose your relationship during the year, will that be in proportion to the time? Compared to what? Compared to what? I think it's even possible here that every two months it could actually be a paying agency from the municipality. And then the most important thing, perhaps, is that in the area of disciplinary and compensation liability, the body is the originator and practitioner of disciplinary powers. Here, as you have already mentioned, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, we cannot accept that it is the 225/F. Paragraph 4 of the Act provides that the post of mayor may be suspended during disciplinary proceedings. I know, Mr. Secretary of State here said that the mayor may, within 8 days, initiate proceedings for the termination of the suspension at the administrative and labour court, which has 8 days to judge, but if we consider this, it may be up to two weeks. For two weeks, you wish to allow it, especially after a municipal election; let us admit that the statements made in the municipal elections that you later denied, but you said that where there is no Fidesz mayor, and perhaps you are the majority, you will try to disable the operation of these mayors, but the same can be the other way around at any time later. So what we would like to do is that, free of any political color, no body of representatives can exercise the right that, because the mayor, let's say, won the mayor's seat in other political colors, so that he can be suspended with various accusations, various accusations made, and that he cannot go to the office, thereby paralyzing the mayor's work, in particular by saying that, in the case of a disciplinary offence, the mayor, if he violates the duty arising out of his office, the disciplinary penalties which can be imposed are: reprimanded, the mayor's salary reduced by up to 20 per cent, the salary, the reduction of the fee and the fee mayor's fee mayor's salary mayor's salary should not be for more than one year. This could be the punishment the mayor can get, and while the proceedings continue, it could be suspended, even during the whole process. It's a preliminary punishment for almost the mayors. In my opinion, mayors are entitled to the presumption of innocence. Once again, I ask you to consider and accept this, and I am trying to convince you here now, in case you are listening to me, because we have maintained this amendment, in case you will vote for it in the vote, and you will see that this can be detrimental not only to other parties, but also to Fidesz-KDNP, if there is a change in politics, and you will not be, let us say, most of you in a municipality, but the mayor, let us say, will be Fidesz. [[16.00]] They can apply these practices to you in the same way. Why do we have to give it a chance? Why should there be an opportunity for vicious political attacks? I think we should put an end to this opportunity now, show that you really didn't mean it, that these were only some of the representatives' opinions, when they threatened to try to paralyze the municipalities, the cities, the settlements where the Fidesz MEPs didn't win the mayor's seat. Prove that you really mean democracy, and you don't care if you have a better mayor sitting in the mayor's seat, you'll be working for the good of the settlement, even if you're in the majority. If you are willing to support this amending proposal, then I feel that you are clearly expressing your view that you really are imagining further functioning along the lines of democracy. If not, then we must interpret that you do maintain the right that the mayors in question are being held up because there is a fidesz majority, at any time, they may try to make it impossible and even try to forbid them from going to the office and taking care of their office. So I ask you to propose an amendment to the Jobbik Movement for Hungary? As your left-wing fellow Members here have indicated that they will support you? I ask you to support it, and together let us show that we really imagine democracy in Hungary, not only in words, but also in actions. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-57	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2014-12-01-58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll just put it on the margins of what I have to say, that our legislative agenda didn't include the negotiation of this law at the time, but if necessary, we need to negotiate, that's fine. What concerns my problem, meaning that outsourcing to public administration is practically how and how it can happen in the coming period. The problem is that if outsourcing takes place in such a way that, say, within 15 days of outsourcing, the affected person himself, the employee, must declare whether he accepts all the places he is being outsourced to, and if he does not accept it, or if he does not make a statement about it? Is that the more interesting part? Is that the more juicy part? Then you'll basically terminate your relationship. On the other hand, it might be more realistic to say that if a person does not make a statement after 15 days, the relationship will continue automatically. I don't even want to talk about what kind of salary or wage violations people suffer in connection with this amendment; and I just want to recall that more than ever. I'm just gonna say it's spicy again? what my fellow Member Vejkey was talking about is not only about Members; you know, this is a question of double pay, a question of double pay. The Secretary of State, the Deputy State Secretary, and the State Secretary of Administration are also involved in practically the preliminary drafts of this story. Okay, well, in terms of the outcome, you're gonna change that by pressure, but let's not deny it to the outside world. That was your intention, the double pay. So, this draft law was very shameful, and that is why we have developed the attitude that my fellow Members will put forward. Mr. President, I could take the two minutes I was doing. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-59	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-12-01-60	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, There's one thing I'd like to discuss. I tried to get an answer at the committee meeting on this matter from my fellow Members, but no one has been able to respond from the government side to the political reason why ministerial Commissioners, if they appoint a State Secretary, let us say, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, will receive additional benefits. 'Cause you've put forward a bill, and this bill says you're entitled to such an allowance. And then, really well? In our view, did we support it at the Justice Committee meeting? a pro-government amendment has changed this intention and it has been said that there will not be an extra fee for the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he is State Secretary, Minister of Public Administration or Deputy State Secretary, say this post. There was no particular justification here either, but let me say that the opposition obviously does not even ask for justification here, because they voted in favour of a version which is the same as our position. Then, in a little similar way, if you remember, there was such a situation here in the parliamentary debate, when we discussed the seat of the Nógrád county assembly, that you are stepping back and forth, so once you say that you should be in the seat, once you are not, and then you say again that at the seat, then at the end of the vote, there is something going on that is either that or not. It's the same here. Now you're saying with the Legislative Committee's amendment that you're still dating? But why, no one said a word about it. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in the first place, not us as opposition representatives, but the Hungarian voters deserve that if you wish to give their own people, their otherwise well-paid State Secretarys and their Deputy State Secretarys, an additional contribution compared to this, at least explain why. When you saw at the meeting of the Justice Committee that this may not be the case and voted in favour of this amendment, what is the political reason, the reason why, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, do you accept a proposal which is just opposite, which allows remuneration? I do not wish to add any longer or longer to this problem, but it would be good if, even in quarter of the time, in 10 seconds or 20, a pro-government representative finally stood up and told me what the reason for this hesitation is, and why you would ultimately like to remain in favour of these State Secretarys of State, undersecretaries of State, to receive an extra payment, in addition to their salaries and allowances, even as ministers. I would ask for your answer to this, my fellow members of the Government. I would also like the Secretary of State to respond, and I do not wish to repeat the arguments made in my previous speech, but I would very much welcome the fact that if the Secretary of State here in this Chamber clearly disagrees with this opinion and wags his head, he would at least give us the opportunity to have a debate and not just to speak to him in the closing words, to get to know your opinion and to react to what justifies the introduction of a stealth presidential system. Once again, I would like to emphasise that I am not debating the current situation, not the current situation, but that... [[Dr. Répássy Róbert and Dr. Bence of Rétvár agree with each other. ? Dr. Répássy Róbert: We don't sneak around!]] I am glad that the two secretary-generals are making fun of each other here on the part of the government, but it would be good to share with us what is the subject of truth, and I sincerely hope that the Secretary of State will do so even when the opposition has the opportunity to react. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: This is the fourth time we've discussed this!]] You know, Secretary of State, I can only refuse this kind of cynicism, not in my name, but in the name of the voters who sent us here! Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-61	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone else wants to... [[For signal:]] Yeah, more than one. I give the floor to Congressman Novak, Jobbik.
u2014-12-01-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We would really like to make it clear that, now, according to the proposal before us and the proposal to vote on it, you are finally in favour of this way, perhaps just open to State Secretarys, that ministerial Commissioners can receive double salaries in this sense. A lot of people have been working in Hungary for a very long time, ever since the political stockpiling took place, and when this succeeds, I think that the legal form of political crime will be put to an end, and I am very sorry that all of our protests, although they have achieved some results, are trying to create new loopholes. I know that there are a lot of lobbying halls in the background here on the part of Members, since Jobbik has achieved the most widespread methods of political accumulation, such as filling local government, mayor and other positions in addition to parliamentary representatives, since we have managed to limit this, I know that many corridor lobbyings have started because of the many harms. However, it is not right that, in fact, even unlike the original proposal and constantly changing it, the media cannot really follow what you are about to do, so please make this clear whether you are finally willing to completely eliminate the political stockpiling and its multiple remuneration. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2014-12-01-63	Thank you, Congressman President Novak. The MSZP has more than two minutes. Congressman Nándor Gúr!
u2014-12-01-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I mentioned the doubled remuneration of the State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys. Now I'm saying it in forints, just to make it noticeable. At a time when a person with a minimum wage receives 66 483 HUF in his pocket in Hungary, we are talking about the gross volume of HUF 750 thousand in an assistant secretary of state. With a secretary of state, this magnitude is nearly one million forints gross, beyond what is your salary. I think this is absolutely inappropriate; one. Secondly, I think that in the debate on the march, in the framework of committee meetings, when this issue takes place, the Heads of Department, Deputy State Secretarys, who appear at the committee meeting, declare that no, no, there will be no such thing, and then, before the final vote, it will be returned to Parliament again in a declaration that there will be, then this can be called insolence. And the top of the insolence is what I said. While the minimum wage person holds 66 483 HUF a month, in addition to the Secretary of State's salary, he can receive nearly one million HUF gross as Minister of State, while someone can double as Deputy State Secretary in the order of 750 thousand HUF. You should think about whether that's okay, whether it's appropriate. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-65	Thank you, Congressman Nándor Gúr. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Leader of the Group, LMP. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Happy name day!]]
u2014-12-01-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The problem is, of course, what has just been said here by my fellow Members Novák and Gul, so why a secretary of state and an assistant secretary of state profit from both sides, and why God's money is not enough for some in the government; but at least as problematic is why a secretary of state, an assistant secretary of state, can be appointed Minister of State. At the time, after the change of regime, the Minister appointed that person as Minister for Foreign Affairs, or appointed a person as Minister for Foreign Affairs for a task that could not be effectively carried out by the other system of organisation of that ministry. Typically, for example, the Minister appointed ministerial commissioners to deal with various sectoral crises or manage projects. The Secretary of State or Deputy State Secretary, on the other hand, performs certain parts of normal operation, i.e. within the portfolio of the Ministry. So if, by the way, he can't perform a task within the normal system and he has to appoint an extra person, then, obviously, it can't be the same person, and I'm telling you, I'm not even talking about the money. So it's a self-contrast. Because if it becomes necessary during the ministry's operation to create an extra position, because I don't know, say, with the drug register something big is happening, or some project must be managed by the development wallet, which the other organizational system cannot perform, then, as a matter of fact, a new person must be bent to do so and appointed. But if it turns out that the Secretary of State or the Deputy Secretary of State is able to carry out this task, then there will be no need to establish the position of Minister of State. So this is a contradiction in itself. The other problem, however, is, and that's why it was unimaginable, this idea itself, let's say, between 90 and 94, because the Minister has always appointed Commissioner after the change of regime. However, the Secretary of State and the Deputy State Secretary were never appointed by the Minister, but by the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. So I would like to point out that, let me say, there is a serious constitutional problem, not only in beauty, but also that once someone is appointed as Deputy State Secretary by the President of the Republic, then how can the Minister give another position. So something's not right here. The same problem was, of course, even in previous government cycles, when Members of Parliament were paid out as former Prime Minister, who assured his loyalty within the party by assigning Members of Parliament as government commissioners and government commissioners. The Commissioner for Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs is an administrative man, not a Member of Parliament, and this is the third reason why the position of State Secretary is already incompatible with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Because, Mr. Secretary of State Retvári, the Secretary of State, just like you, is a politician. The ministerial commissioner, the ministerial commissioner, is basically an administrative task; this is an administrative task. Systemologically, therefore, beyond the fact that it is blatantly impertinence that hungry mouths are tried to be plugged in within the Fidesz-KDNP by opening various loopholes, how to fill pockets well, but the thing is that this whole idea of ministers of state, deputy state ministers of government, ministers of ministership, is a whole Bornish proposal, a self-controversation. If there is a need for a position as Minister for Foreign Affairs, then that is, of course, because the Secretary of State, Deputy State Secretary, cannot perform that position. On the other hand, the State Secretarys are not appointed by the Minister, but the Minister appoints the Minister. So I think this whole story, the way it is, should be forgotten. If it is perhaps that there have been too many jingles at your house, or not at your house, because it is your money, let us say, too many of you at the Prime Minister's office were tinkling that it is not enough for you to receive, then be bold, bring in a bill of law, and suggest that you raise the remuneration of ministers or State Secretarys, let us say, double the Parliament. That's the clean talk. This thing here, it's a scam, and it's another bullshit in the entire administration system. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause?]]
u2014-12-01-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Schiffer Group Leader. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see an application, the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2014-12-01-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the lack of enthusiasm to participate again in this debate, because we are conducting this debate for the fourth time, we are dissecting almost the same questions; I can only give the same answers to the same speeches. We have discussed these issues twice in committee and once in plenary. On the other hand, because I didn't speak to all the topics, because they criticize rules that have remained unchanged for twenty or even twenty-four years. Of course, this is no reason not to change it, but this proposal was not about changing these rules. Mr President, Dear House, The rules and amendments to the proposal to amend certain legal acts are intended to facilitate the application of the law, to make the regulation more transparent and efficient. In many cases, they fill a regulatory gap or resolve old regulatory contradictions that can no longer be created. It should be noted that the provisions on the Public Officials' Certificate should be laid down. These rules were included in the proposal because of the lack of regulation indicated by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and did the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights consider that some public officials were quasi-missing? So, among other things, he's himself? they do not have a certificate confirming the existence of the office they hold. On the basis of this indication, the Ministry of Justice has consulted several public officials on the regulation and the current proposal has been drawn up accordingly. The importance of the certificate is also reflected in the fact that, as a result of the conciliation, the scope of the right to a public official card has been significantly extended in view of the comments received. The comments also confirmed that the current regulatory deficit raises practical problems and creates difficulties for individual public officials. However, the legislation contained in the bill will remedy the situation by appropriate means. With regard to the criticisms of social consultation and the enlargement of the norm, I do not think that it is possible for the author to shape the proposal submitted in accordance with the application of the law. There has also been more criticism of the proposal to amend the legislation on ministerial Commissioners. It is important to point out that due to the current regulatory anomaly it was necessary to amend the provisions as soon as possible. [[16.20]] The proposal is suitable for this and a more transparent regulatory environment will be developed in the future in line with the function of the Ministerial Commissioner's institution. The political responsibility for establishing the remuneration of the Minister is borne by the Minister, and the Parliament may also inform the Minister, in the form of an interpellation or question, of why, in some cases, the remuneration was deemed necessary or why, in such a large amount, it was necessary. It is also a great advantage of the regulation to ensure the remuneration of ministerial Commissioners in a transparent way rather than for hidden benefits and salaries. The rules on the employment relationship of the mayor during the general debate, in particular the possibility of suspending the post of mayor during disciplinary proceedings, were also criticised. Although I have said this to the committees, I will also state here that the legislation on mayor's disciplinary liability does not contain any new provisions, the former rules are also taken over by the law on public service officials. It may be of public interest to suspend the mayor when committing an act of disciplinary responsibility. This possibility should continue to exist when certain crimes are committed. The amendment proposal, which would exclude the suspension of the mayor's office, would also mean that, if the mayor acknowledges the act on which he is responsible for disciplinary action, he may not be suspended for the duration of the disciplinary proceedings, so he may continue to exercise his powers and veto regulations and take personal decisions. I continue to stress that the regulation does not require the suspension of the mayor's office, but merely gives it an opportunity for the body of representatives. And against the decision of the body of representatives? With very limited deadlines? a judicial review procedure may be used. I note that not only is the mayor's employment relationship aware of the possibility of suspension in disciplinary proceedings, but also, in the case of government officials, the law on public service officials, but also the example of judges. On the basis of a proposal from the Legislative Committee, the technical management of the staff of the permanent representation in favour of the European Union will be transferred to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. In the future, the government, taking advantage of its freedom of organisation under the Fundamental Law, will entrust other ministers with the care of certain matters. It is not unusual in the European Union, in many EU Member States, that the management of EU affairs does not belong to the foreign minister's portfolio. However, it should be pointed out that this does not mean the full transfer of foreign affairs tasks to the Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office, only the change concerns the professional management of permanent representation. The proposal, of course, has nothing to do with the establishment of a preliminary public body, because there the President of the Republic is not under the control of Parliament. On the other hand, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office, as any minister, has a ministerial responsibility to the Parliament. Only the rules of the proposal are intended to establish and maintain legal coherence, thereby promoting effective application of the law. The provisions were drawn up in consultation before the submission and after careful consideration of the amendments received to the bill during the parliamentary phase. Once again, I would like to point out that in several cases the proposal addresses a regulatory anomaly or deficiency which is needed as soon as possible. I thank Mr Péter Kónya for his valuable contribution, although the provisions in line with his points are not included in the bill. Dear House, I would ask my fellow Members to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-69	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place between today's decisions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the second-reading debates. According to our agreed agenda, decisions will take place from 16.30 a.m. Until then, I'm going to take a break. [[Pause: 16.25-16.35President: Lezsák SándorMessenger: Ádám Mirkóczki and László Földi]]
u2014-12-01-70	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. [[Noise.]] Decisions are now being taken. [[It's ringing.]] Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. It follows a decision and a final vote on the proposal for a comprehensive amendment to the proposed single electronic card framework. The submission was made in T/1761. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1761/6. by serial number T/1761/7 and its summary report by T/1761/7. by serial number. So now it's time for the decisions to be made. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP's group leader is T/1761/2. It proposed to maintain an amendment with a serial number. That is what we decide first. T/1761/2. Mr Bárándy and others tabled an amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the MSZP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 123 against and 15 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1761/6. a proposal for a summary amendment with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 28 against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/1761/9. Single proposal No 28 §2 contains a cardinality clause. On this basis, the single proposal will be decided in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1761/9. the provision of a single proposal with a serial number requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 28 against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the simple majority of the single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the simple majority of the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 29 against and 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the draft law on the establishment of a central register and on the amendment of certain administrative laws. The submission was made in T/1709. is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[16.40]] T/1709/9. by serial number and summary report by T/1709/10. by serial number. So now it's time for the decisions to be made. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to Paragraph 4 of the Jobbik Group, the leader of the T/1709-3. Amendment Nos 4 and 4 were proposed to be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1709/3. Mr Hegedűs Lorántné and Mr László Lukács tabled an amendment. We decide to maintain the proposal in accordance with the rules of the qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 20 votes to 128, with 27 abstentions. T/1709/4. Mr Hegedűs Lorántné and Mr László Lukács tabled an amendment. We decide to maintain the proposal in accordance with the rules of the qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 19 votes to 129, with 27 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that paragraphs 6 and 12 of this Decision require a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1709.9. Point 6 and point 12 of its Amending Proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 131 votes to 28, with 16 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1709.9. Points requiring a simple majority of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 126 votes in favour, 28 against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 51. T/1709/16. has initiated the postponement of the final vote on a serial number, in view of the intention to submit a proposal for an amendment to the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I will ask the representative of the government if he wishes to explain the reasons for the delay request. [[No signal.]] I don't see an application, so we're gonna make a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1709 postpones it. the final vote on the proposal with a serial number. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament postponed the final vote on the proposal by 132 votes to 29, with 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act, the postponed final vote may be held at the earliest on the first working day of next week. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the parts that require a simple majority... [[For signal:]] Yeah. It follows the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain legal acts and the final vote. The submission was made in T/1767. is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/1767/12. by serial number T/1767/13 and its summary report by T/1767/13. by serial number. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/1767/4, the head of the MSZP Group is the head of the T/1767/4. No. T/1767.7 and the leader of Jobbik's group is T/1767.7. It proposed to maintain an amendment with a serial number. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/1767/4. Mr Bárándy and others tabled an amendment. A simple majority is sufficient for the reservation in view of the abandonment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of the request of the MSZP. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes to 127, without abstention. T/1767.7 István Apáti and György Szilágyi are presenting a proposal for amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal on the basis of Jobbik's request. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 22 votes to 130, with 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the head of the MSZP Group has called for a separate vote on points 4 and 12 of the summarised amendment proposal and that the Government has called for a separate vote on point 20. That's what we're gonna decide first. In point 4 of the summary amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee shall draw up Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. Article 38 of the Act on Government Status The Commission proposes to amend Article 4 of the Act by submitting detailed provisions on the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At the request of the MSZP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 4 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 4 of the summary amendment by 147 votes to 31, without abstention. In point 12 of the summary amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee shall adopt Article 20. Article 225/F of the Law on Government Status Paragraph 2 amends the rules of disciplinary review. At the request of the MSZP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] In paragraph 1, it amends the rules of disciplinary review. At the request of the MSZP, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 12 of the summarised amendment proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 12 of the summary amendment by 175 votes to 2, with 1 abstention. [[16.50]] In point 20 of the summary amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee shall draw up its opinion in accordance with Article 27. In paragraph 3, it initiates a change in the entry into force provision. At the request of the authors, we shall decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 20 of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted point 20 of the summary amendment by 1 vote in favour, 176 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that point 19 of this Decision requires a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1767/12. Point 19 of the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the point requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1767/12. A simple majority of the additional points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 129 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament did not accept all the points of the summary amendment proposal, we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. This includes provisions which require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the part of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 129 votes in favour, 50 against and without abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts them. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the majority of the amended bill by 128 votes in favour, 51 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Congressman Vejkey reporting in order of business? [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Yes.]] I'll give you the floor in order of business. You have the floor.
u2014-12-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am here on a case-by-case matter because T/1767 on the amendment of certain legal acts. There was a separate vote on point 20 of the summary amendment proposal for bill No 20 and there was 1 yes and, as far as I can see, 179 no. Therefore, there should have been a decision not to, but Mr President said yes.
u2014-12-01-72	Thank you for the repairs. I'd like the record to change it. Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We will now continue our work by negotiating interpellations. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:, Social Policy Crimes in the next year's budget. When does the government put down anti-family and anti-popular measures? It's an address. At the request of Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2014-12-01-73	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The government says family comes first. In fact, families are the first to make cuts. If we look at who is most affected by the tax law and next year's budget, we can say that families are the number one losers of the measures. Let us look at the serious cuts in expenditure in the draft budget for next year, in particular in the National Family and Social Policy Fund. The fund, which includes support for families with children, will receive HUF 100 billion less than last year, 70 billion less than this year. One of the reasons for this is the reduction in the cost of family allowances. It should be pointed out that the family allowance will also be reduced next year. It is no coincidence that nearly HUF 40 billion less will be paid for this benefit compared to 2010. The value of the family allowance has decreased by 25-30 percent in recent years. In addition, the government's actions will make it possible for as few people as possible to benefit from it. Consider, though, that children with asthma have been deprived of access to higher benefits. Depreciation of the age of compulsory education: less high school, less family allowances. That's what they're planning on doing in kindergarten. There will be compulsory kindergartens, yes, only for those who are thought not to receive adequate education at home, but they will even lose their family allowance if they do not attend kindergartens despite the obligation. What kind of justice is that? And then they have another idea that they're going to link the benefits to employment. It's the manyth condition and narrowing. That's all it's gonna do, except that if you're unemployed or poor, you know where you belong. Tell me how much they spend on family tax breaks. Yeah, but only six out of seven families can use that, and they're not all of them. You wrote this. So every seventh family doesn't get tax breaks because they don't have an employment relationship. According to their plans, they won't even get a family allowance. What about the seventh families? Of course, the poor people have to shut up. The state will tell us the order: community service and servitude. This is also shown by the fact that the replacement aid for employment will be completely abolished in four years. This is a crime that will never end because the lives of the families and children of those affected are at risk. But you will also eliminate regular social assistance, housing support and debt management support. So the government wants to protect public money from the poor instead of dealing with billionaires of VAT and corruption. What budgetary responsibility leaves the poor without care? For all these reasons, I ask Minister: why do they not increase the benefits for families, what do they expect after the end of the aid, why did the government give up 1.5 million people, when does the government give up anti-family and anti-popular measures? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2014-12-01-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-01-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Anti-popular measures are an expression of the usage of anti-popular crimes in the 1950s. Fortunately, this has not been used in Hungary for some time, but I see that the MSZP intends to put the word anti-popular once again in the public address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that you are facing an extremely awkward time, because very soon you will be caught by those who may have listened to this speech, that you are not telling the truth, because you said false things about, for example, the reduction in the family allowance. If the Hungarian families look at their bank accounts and see how much income there is on them in 60 days, they will see that the family allowance has not been reduced, but will receive it as it has been this year and last year, and it will not be less. Then you'll realize that both the MSZP and your words have about 60 days of warranty and then expire. It is now possible to threaten them, Madam honourable Member, but they have no factual basis whatsoever. [[17.00]] They can be considered political hoaxes rather than real, any kind of evaluation. Of course, the family allowance is also due to everyone next year, just as this government had to correct a lot of former socialist measures in relation to families, let it be just that you have taken away the family tax relief for the first and second children. Fidesz-KDNP gave this back to the families; in fact, it will now return it with increased amounts in the next period. You took the third year's child from every Hungarian family, which is more than 300 thousand forints. We returned this, with HUF 300,000 each family carrying children is ahead. We introduced the Gyed extra from 1 January this year, and you know that the home support system that worked until 2002 helped young family members the most. You've beaten this up, and we're expanding the Socpol system next year. This was already this year, and families can use about 700 million forints. We hope that from the following years this amount will be HUF 4 billion, since it is already coming after a child and can be used to buy a used apartment. We hope that as many as possible will do so. You know very well, but you forgot to tell me that in recent times, of course, the government has spent a lot more on families. It is already about 700 billion forints that we have left with families since the government change in 2010. This is the extra income that can be spent on them as a surplus, and which, if you continued to govern them, would never reach the Hungarian families. If we break this down, for an average Hungarian family, it means an extra HUF 20,000 a month, and today an average Hungarian family can manage more than it could have managed in 2010. And that includes a lot of benefits, but I don't expect, for example, that a lot of people, 650-700 thousand, get to the textbook for free, I don't expect to be able to save a lot more money than a larger family. In addition, I count only this amount of HUF 20,000. But it is also important that we have increased the maximum value of the lawn by 40%, and I think it is not negligible, Congresswoman, that the pace of kindergarten construction is now three times as high as it was in your time. Even in crèches, it is 1.5 times, but three times as many kindergarten seats are created, precisely to help families. As far as compulsory kindergartening is concerned, first of all, we do not have any kind of plan that would have linked the family allowance to employment. It's just another political hoax for you. However, compulsory kindergartening is in the interest of the children, because if a parent has not paid enough attention to his child at all to go to school or not, because we have linked the family allowance to schooling, right, to school support, it is also important for compulsory kindergarten. After all, this can lead to a social gap, if one is in kindergarten from the age of three, we want to do so in the interest of the child. And very briefly, because I only have a little time left [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , of course, the aid system will also remain on the part of the district, the allowances for payment, while in the area of municipal aid, the benefits for spending will be allocated to the families. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-01-77	You know, Mr. Secretary, it was like reading a story, but it's not a story. [[György Balla intervenes.]] At the event of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences two weeks ago, 42.2 percent of children under the age of seven live in poverty, and Minister Károly Czibere said in the budget debate that everyone would have enough to survive. Meanwhile, your former colleague, Zoltán Pokorni, says that a responsible member of the government, leading politician, cannot afford the kind of urination that may have left earlier. What are you talking about? ! So far it's been stolen, and now we're holding back a little? Well, shame on you, and then vote for it. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Relax. ? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. ? Dr. Robert Répássy: Shame on you, Gábor Simon! Zoltán Gőgös: Let's talk about Lajos Kósa!]]
u2014-12-01-78	I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Who stands in the way of the flood? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. The word belongs to Daniel Z. Carpathian.
u2014-12-01-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The question I asked a few months ago, which focused on how, how, and how, a large number of refugees over 10,000 could arrive in Hungary, and how the government would choose to cover their maintenance and care in some way, I was told that they would investigate this situation, the content and the methods behind it. Well, you can see and, as you know, the costs of placing and keeping people from uncertain backgrounds in Hungary are still largely borne by the Hungarian state, taxpayers, with a ratio of approximately 90:10 in terms of the proportion of Hungarian taxpayers' money and EU funding to be included in this issue. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Nándor Gúr.]] It is apparent that the number of offences and crimes is increasing in the area of partially or wholly open camps, and that the subjective sense of security of the population is enough that the number of protesting signatures and signatures from citizens that have been received in connection with either criminal offences or infringements or verbal or other types of vegan culture can be made to a thousand magnitude in all open or partially open camps. It can therefore be seen that Minister and his agents are indebted to the question of whether they have a summary of the costs of direct and transfer costs for Hungarian citizens to keep refugees who have come to the country for an uncertain purpose, among whom more criminals are hiding with a declaration. And I would like to draw your attention to a very serious problem, Secretary of State. In the previous period, tens of thousands of arrivals from around 18 thousand were lost from the horizon of the authorities within a few weeks. So I'm interested in your position as to where these people are going. If you march across the country on two legs, how does this happen, in what form and in how verifiable? Is the affected population exposed to any danger? And we need to talk about one more very important issue, and I am asking this as a question, because I would like an answer. How, for example, can a school and church be found within 200 metres of the Balassagyarmat hostel, and this institution is partially open. We received a report from a young lady that the newcomers chased her out of the woods and out of the department store. We're getting news from Debrecen that old man quitting his apartment when he told two refugees that maybe it wasn't appropriate to smoke there, and once again, around his own apartment, he gets knocked down, beaten up, abused. The number of abuses continues to increase. There is no action plan on the part of the government. So the question is what new types of law enforcement tools they have, what ideas they have. And once again, we would very much like to know how much it costs for Hungarian taxpayers to keep and station refugees who, in our view, cannot be a destination country, therefore, they have no business here in the long term. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government's firm position is that consistent and rigorous action is warranted against asylum abuses. The problems of economic refugees should be dealt with where they arose. In all cases, the police are definitely taking action against the disrupters and those who violate the law. [[Z. Karpat is talking to Daniel's fellow Members.]] Congressman, if you'll honor me with your attention, I'll continue to answer. In order to limit the personal freedom of applicants for international protection, so that a reception centre can be closed up under the legislation only exceptionally, but in order to ensure that migrants who are against the law cannot avoid being held liable, last year we introduced the asylum detention facility? the question of what new tools we are using. As a result, in justified cases provided for by law, such as the protection of public order, asylum detention for which recognition is sought may be granted for a maximum period of 6 months. By the way, we are most sorry that you, Congressman, and the Group of Jobbik did not vote for this tightening up. The government will use all available means to reduce the number of irregular migrants. That is why we have increased the number of border police, placed several new mobile and stable thermal cameras at the Serbian, Ukrainian and Romanian borders, increased aerial reconnaissance and increased cooperation with neighbouring countries. [[17.10]] Between 1 January 2014 and 30 September 2014, the maintenance costs of reception centres reached HUF 1.2 billion, while the state spent nearly HUF 460 million on maintaining asylum detention facilities during the same period. So far, to this day, Mr President, 18 998 asylum applications have been lodged by the asylum authorities against 3693 persons. Honourable Congressman, To date, 10,667 cases of asylum have been terminated on account of the applicant's departure to an unknown place. The fact that an applicant leaves an unknown place during the refugee procedure does not constitute a high public health risk; both in an open reception centre and in an asylum-guarded reception centre, applicants shall undergo a compulsory medical examination. In order to safeguard and strengthen the security of reception facilities and their surroundings, the police will take the necessary measures and ensure increased presence everywhere, as well as regular, comprehensive checks, Mr President. Based on the facts, the number of crimes around reception centres has not increased, the people living in the reception centre have basically committed violations of each other's rights within the institution. And when the crimes are committed outside, the police will capture them and take the necessary measures. Honourable Congressman, I have answered all your questions, and I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-82	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-01-83	Mr President, Dear House, I must also express my appreciation, for we have received much more figures and facts within a reply than ever before. At the same time, they are very talkative, so I cannot accept them. The Secretary of State says that the number of crimes in the area has not increased statistically. Then why are you telling me that in the case of crimes outside, the police have acted? It may have been done, but it is certain that local citizens would not have been hit, local young girls would not have been chased if these newcomers had not been able to walk around in uncontrolled residential areas. You didn't answer one question, a very important question. What is the need for such institutions to be partially open within a residential area in Balassagyarmat, Debrecen? Why can't they be placed outside of a residential area? This is, in the long run, the expectations of citizens, of the population. Asylum detention should be exercised, not only in the case of the six cases. Of course, we did not support some of their initiatives when they were embedded in salads. But the most important thing is that within an independent border police force, with separate border-hunting units, it does start [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We should take this amazing tsunami, because as a border between the European Union, we will be subject to an invasion if we do not see it. [[The president's ringing again.]] then they expose the civilian population to unjustified threats, which are insufferable, unacceptable. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-01-84	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply to the interpellation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes to 31, with 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for National Development: å Why are they cold in every third household if Hungary is performing better? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2014-12-01-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, three public energy efficiency tenders have been launched by the government. I'm sad to say that three out of three drowned in scandal. Basically, we see three reasons for this: one is lack of money, the other is unorganization, and the third is the continuing corruption risk. Specifically, the computer system failed in three out of three cases and collapsed. The boiler replacement support stopped immediately after the start-up, because the resources were exhausted, and if we look at who made the online application, we can see that it's a nearby Fidesz business that leaves broken companies behind and made a living on Fidesz municipal orders. I think that we should turn a little back on what you promised in 2010; we could also say that we have written evidence that you have not promised this to the Hungarian people. In the 2010 election programme of Fidesz, you promised that 10 percent of the housing stock will be modernised annually, creating tens of thousands of jobs. Compared to this, virtually a set of pity that we see now would give people 2.7 billion forints for cooling and boiler exchange and thermal insulation, while next year's budget will throw the money out the window in the order of 150 billion. In the meantime, what do Hungarian people live for? The number of backlogs in this country is not decreasing, and 1.8 million people are constantly affected by the fact that they simply cannot work their backlog. The number of people living in cold, dark, and fear increases, affecting about one third of households. Specifically, one and a half million people experience this feeling of life day by day. What is the reason for this and why there is no change? What I see is that you are constantly absconding with the necessary resources, and as a result we continue to heat the Hungarian streets with Russian gas. And I wouldn't be surprised if it turned out that corruption was there, because there might be some privileged people who already know what the terms of the application will be before they appear. I haven't been surprised at anything since I saw what you're doing about the NAV case. The Possibly Other Politics continues to think that there is a way out of this ravine. One is the increase in energy efficiency and the other is the use of renewable energy sources. In 2010, however, even you were inclined to a sensible solution. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, what happened to you. I basically see two versions. According to version A, their 2010 saying was just a bluff. It's not nice to bluff in an election program, but we're used to it in this country; but if it was, it doesn't have to be, LMP doesn't bluff in its program when it says that we can create 450 000 jobs with green economic development. The B-version is that they realized that they were better able to push towards the Russians than into their private pockets if they simply maintained the energy vulnerability of Hungarian people. Look, when it comes to version B, I totally understand why this series of scandals is happening, but you have to admit that's what this is about. But if it's version A, then I'm asking why I don't see funds being allocated to it in the 2015 budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for the purpose. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-01-86	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-12-01-87	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your claims on, inter alia, energy poverty, public energy burdens and government energy efficiency efforts simply do not correspond to the truth. You are opposed to millions of consumers, and you are contradicted by the experience of hundreds of thousands of successful families. Between 2010 and 2014, the government paid nearly HUF 50 billion to improve the energy efficiency and technical safety of residential buildings, which allowed energy efficiency investments to be made in the homes of more than 235 thousand families. As a result of the government's reduction in energy prices, the level of energy prices of Hungarian households also improved significantly in a European comparison. Based on the data of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in October 2014, retail consumers pay the second lowest price for electricity and natural gas in the EU. We belong to the middle field in terms of electricity and we pay the fourth lowest price for natural gas, measured at purchasing power parities. As a result of the reduction, the annual costs of an average consumer decreased by nearly HUF 100,000, thanks to the transformation of the gas price regulation in December 2010, it could save another HUF 100,000. Thanks to the government's measures, consumers have been able to save nearly a thousand billion forints in the last five years. As a result of this reduction, both the number of back-up consumers and the amount of debts have decreased significantly in recent years. Based on the Energy Office data, the number of electricity consumers with backlogs over 30 days decreased by 35 percent, gas consumers by 38 percent and district heating consumers by 22 percent. From 11 November this year, the application could start to be submitted to the program "Home Gayness" of Home, the first calls of which provide non-refundable support to Hungarian residents with a total amount of nearly HUF 3 billion. [[17.20]] The IT difficulties mentioned by you have been overcome, and there is no disadvantage or damage to one applicant. The number of applications received so far is expected to be in line with the public's interest in the proposals. Proposals not only provide investment support to households, but also significantly reduce their overhead costs due to long-term energy savings. According to our plans, thanks to the support of nearly HUF 13 billion under the.Home Gay Program, an additional investment with significant energy savings can be made in the home of 44 thousand families. In the next seven-year EU budget programme, we expect a HUF 500 billion non-refundable fund to increase energy efficiency and encourage the use of renewable energies. In addition, in the near future, the government for condominiums [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] launches a complex renovation programme with a HUF 10 billion tender framework that saves energy. I know you don't like to hear these things, but these are the facts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-88	Thank you very much. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-01-89	Secretary of State, I am aware that such a speech is an obvious opportunity to repeat the propaganda of the reduction of the rent, but I would like to tell you that I am sitting in the faction of the party that called the reduction of the rent a bluff and not by accident. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: That's why there are so many of you! ? An uproar in the pro-government benches.]] At present, the energy-related expenditure of the Hungarian population is still at the forefront of the European Union. At European level, Hungarian people are still at the forefront of how much they pay for energy. What would be a real reduction is a series of building energy improvements. [[Constant interruptions from the pro-government benches.]] Secretary of State, one question: have you kept your promise or not? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: In!]] You didn't keep the promise. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of the ruling parties.]] The 10 percent renovation of the Hungarian housing stock was not carried out year after year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, I think that you know, as I know, that 75 percent of people in this country live in family homes, not in family houses like Minister Szijjártó, but in something that was built a long time ago and that is not isolated. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. ? Cries from the pro-government benches, among them: Time!]] Why aren't you helping these people, Mr. Secretary? [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches.]] I cannot accept your answer because we have heard again the propaganda of the reduction of the rent and not the real answers to the real question.
u2014-12-01-90	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Szilárd Németh, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior with the title of Gábor Simon, the Left and the Hundreds of Millions. Szilárd Németh has the floor.
u2014-12-01-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Simon Gábor, former Socialist Member of Parliament, Minister of State for Labour, President of the National Election of the MSZP, then Deputy General President of the Party, decided in January 2008 to open bank accounts in Austria and place some HUF 240 million on them. At the time, the Austrian financial institution was told that the property was derived from the sale of a company and a property in Budapest, but these were false claims. These savings of Gábor Simon were never included in the declarations of assets, he didn't declare the amount as income, so he didn't pay taxes on them. In fact, he did not include his bank accounts abroad in his national security questionnaire completed in 2008 and 2009, which is also a violation of the law. Simon at the D.A.'s office claimed that the hundreds of millions of people hidden abroad were only in possession of asset management, and it was then discovered that large amounts were being spent in Magnet Bank and other Austrian bank accounts in the capital. It was also found that Simon had a dubious passport in Guinea-Bissau, which he used to open a larger bank account. In fact, at the end of October, Simon had his assets hidden in foreign bank accounts paid the authorities HUF 128 million as a tax return. So far, we thought for sure that the money transferred wasn't from the foreign accounts blocked by the investigating authorities in the spring, because we didn't think he had access to them. However, this is no longer a sure statement. By balancing the public burden, Simon admitted that the hidden property was his, or at least he could guard it. But it also proved that in the spring, protecting Gábor Simon and the party, the entire left wasn't telling the truth, if you will. Could the 128 million have been the same people who wanted to help Gábor Simon who used to be János Zuschlag? [[Noise in the benches of MSZP. ? Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] Is it possible that this is really about the vague money that Ferenc Gyurcsány said it was better not to know where they came from? With all due respect, I ask the Honourable Minister and the Secretary of State: do you see a parallel between the HUF 50 million paid by János Zuschlag and the HUF 128 million paid by Gábor Simon? [[Zoltán Grimlock: What about the billboards? ? Agnes Kunhalmi: Adopt the Zuschlag!]] Does the investigating authority deal with the background of these questionable funds? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[Zoltán Haughty: In response to the investigation, you say nothing! ? Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr Gábor Simon, former MSZP Member, Deputy General President of the MSZP, President of the National Election and Secretary of State for Labour, is prosecuting the Central Investigator's Attorney General for the crime of high-value fiscal fraud and other crimes. Therefore, under the Law on Criminal Procedure, the state of play of the investigation can be informed by the prosecution. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Very good!]] Gábor Simon's declarations of assets for the past years are public, they can be viewed on the website of the Hungarian Parliament, and it is clear that until the declaration of assets, that is, until 8 February 2014, Gábor Simon did not have enough assets to carry out the 128 million HUF paid out now using his own resources. Furthermore, given that you have been arrested for two months in advance and are subsequently and currently under house arrest, we do not know of any income after tax earned during that period or income earner's activity that would have allowed this payment to be made. In order to examine the source of this amount, the National Tax and Customs Office has the appropriate means. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Ildikó Vida!]] Honourable Congressman, The task of the investigating authority is to investigate all circumstances in the event of a thorough suspicion of a crime, including whether there is a parallel between HUF 50 million paid by former MSZP politician János Zuschlag and HUF 128 million paid by former MSZP MP Gábor Simon Gábor. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Ildikó Vida will investigate!]] However, it is a very remarkable fact that in the case of János Zuschlag, there was also a secret benefactor who provided a helping hand in the payment of part of the tax debt established in the course of criminal proceedings. On the basis of the public declaration of property, it remains doubtful that Gábor Simon would have had the wealth, legally acquired, of which he could make such a large deposit without any external involvement. These relationships are expected to be explored in detail. However, we are confident that the prosecution's very thorough and careful investigation will reveal the truth and answer all our questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the answer. [[Zoltán Grimlock: He didn't say anything!]]
u2014-12-01-95	[[No sound.]] The lies, given the fact that...
u2014-12-01-96	Wait a minute.
u2014-12-01-97	This is the corruption case that is clearly linked to the MSZP. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right. ? Zoltán Grimlock: Based on what?]] We can also be sure that Gábor Simon has held many positions in the MSZP for which he is accountable to them, but I think that there is also a very serious national security thread in this, because it is an ex-Secretary of State, a former Member of Parliament. We're not sure about that at all? Just like the Secretary of State said? Where this 128 million forints came from, who paid for it, who threw this money together, and how they made this 128 million forints, because again we are sure that Gábor Simon could not have had such wealth or such income. And today we are not even sure why, in the course of the proceedings, the court decided only on 17 November to close the accounts of Simon Gábor arrested on 10 March. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Where did you get it for Szijjárto?]] [[17 .30]] I hope that tomorrow we will see more clearly on this matter at the National Security Committee meeting. [[Zoltán Gőgös: He borrowed money from Szijjárto, sure!]] Thank you for your answer, I accept. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-01-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, an independent representative, submitted an interpellation to the National Development Minister:. When will the missing section of the Csepel Riding Road be built? It's an address. Mr Szabolcs Szabó has the floor.
u2014-12-01-99	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Mr Secretary of State, Csepel has been an important industrial centre in Budapest in the past, but has now become one of the poorest districts in the capital. In the area of Csepel Works, which once employs about 30,000 people, it is estimated that today only 6-8 thousand people are employed. It would be important for all the inhabitants of Csepel and Csepel Island to be able to change this as soon as possible. This requires large investments that allow former industrialised areas to flourish again and attract greenfield investments to the district, not to mention addressing the problems of significant transit traffic. The key to the future development of Csepel and the entire island of Csepel is the construction of the ridge path. Only high-capacity road infrastructure that avoids populated areas can give Csepel a new impetus. The Csepel Free Port, which has been operating since 1928, and the Weiss Manfréd Works installed in Csepel in 1892, the remaining successor companies of subsequent Csepel Works, as well as other industrial areas in Csepel that are typically ruined and out-of-use, can only be flourished if the backbone road is fully built, unless thousands of new jobs can be created by companies operating or moving here, if the remaining road connection to M0 is fully established. Dear Secretary of State, As you know, a section of the Csepel Ridge has so far been built within the Csepel, as well as a section between the M0 and Lórév and an island branch of it. So right now, there are two stages that are not substantially connected. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State when a decision on the construction of the spine road is expected to be taken, and when the spine path is expected to start XXI. construction of the missing part of the district, when we can pass on the missing section of traffic, and from what source they intend to finance the investment. Thank you very much. I await your reply.
u2014-12-01-100	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-12-01-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, For the sake of clarity of the answer, Budapest XXI. The Csepel Ridge, the bypass of the city centre and the II. Rákóczi Ferenc út two-track refurbished sections. The Csepel Ridge Road, which is not the same as the Csepel Ridge Road, is set out in Annex II. Ferenc Rákóczi travels from the road to Pest county and connects to the M0 road node in Szentmiklós. The external section of the Csepel Island Riding Road, which is a public task, is technically covered by Annex II. From the circular junction of Rákóczi Ferenc to Szigethalom, the island branch through Leshegy Industrial Park was also built. The sections belonging to the national road network thus fulfil their duty-free, traffic-distributive role linked to the M0 road. The study plan for the Szigethalom-Lórév phase is complete. Budapest XXI. The Budapest Transport Centre is responsible for the development of the Csepel Ridge Road in the district. The Csepel Ridge was built between Corvin Road and Postógyár Street, you mentioned it yourself. The next job is bypassing the Csepel city centre and the II. Rákóczi Ferenc út's two-track reconstruction twice. Both of them, by the way, are indoors. The continuation of the Csepel Ridge is accordingly included in the capital's investment plans, so I propose that the Member contact the Budapest Transport Centre for further details. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-01-102	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-01-103	Thank you for the floor. Yes, indeed, an interesting answer has been given to the Secretary of State. It has recently been published in the IKOP about the resources that will be spent on road transport development, including investments above EUR 75 million, and we also know very well that the VEKOP resource has already been identified in the context of the EU's allocation of funds, if I remember correctly, in the amount of HUF 290 billion. I'll tell you the truth, I can't really accept the answer that it's just a capital authority. The Ministry has a responsibility in this, and, of course, I do not accept the answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. So I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. At the end of the year, the early retirement pension will disappear? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Minister Zoltán Balog, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2014-12-01-105	Before 2010, it was said that pensions would be protected, and after the 2010 elections, they acted and declared that all rights, pre-retirement pensions and others would be abolished, with one exception, in the case of women, after 40 years of service. Even though they lied to their eyes there because they promised 40 years of service, then they could retire on the basis of 40 years of entitlement, which is much less. Well, that's the history. And now we're facing the fact that you're looking to reshape the system of early discounts? Is that really good? , they intend to terminate the possibility of obtaining the right after 31 December. You know, age discount isn't a favor, it's not a charity act. No! The provision of health-damaged people, the care of them, which was described in the previous period, for example in hot and radioactive workplaces, from Paks to many others, or in mines or buses, or sitting on locomotives within the framework of the MÁV, is about the assessment of the benefits and entitlements for them. After ten years of such employment, men get two years, in the case of women two years after eight years. This is what you are taking now, while employers make a 13-percent contribution, which appears in the government's register at a rate of approximately HUF 20 billion per year. I don't know what it takes for you to change all that. Whether you need the street again, whether what happens is that the bus drivers collect signatures, the advocacy demonstrate, the railwaymen write letters to Orbán; they are all consolidated solutions, but there are also stronger steps. And what's gonna happen is that the street will drive you away, sweeping you away the way the wind does the garbage, you know. The specific example is that, let's say, there are 11,000 bus drivers within the Volan companies, exposed to psychic pressures and much more that appear as an opportunity for an accident hazard. I'm not saying this, it's shown by a lot of impact assessments that you never do, you know, even when you're submitting draft laws. What they need to see is how you stand up for all this when these things happen. What about the early retirement system, why do they want to keep people in suspense? I want straight and clear answers to that, and I want you to do that. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] what they want to do later in the case of people in bad health. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[17.40]]
u2014-12-01-106	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-01-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Mr President, Mr President, you have brought and mixed a wide range of concepts in relation to old-age pensions, disability pensions and early retirement pensions. It must be said, honourable Member, that, obviously, this is a painful topic for the Hungarian Socialist Party that, during the Fidesz-KDNP administration, we have not only preserved the value of pensions, but that there is no reason to cover a 1.8 percent increase in pensions in the next year's budget, but that, overall, in the four-year term, the value of those pensions has increased by at least 4 percent over the past period. So not only did we protect the value of pensions, but today a pension is worth more than it was worth four and a half years ago. As far as the early retirement scheme is concerned, the early retirement option granted in this context? Although the circumstances under which the benefit was granted are not the issues of pension law? The error of the early retirement system is that it does not serve the health protection of the worker, but tolerates harm, and then rewards health degradation with the possibility of a previous withdrawal. The system is based on a rigid job list that reflects technical development decades ago. The system was originally built on a presumption, which assumed that the body of those who would last longer would be worn out sooner? Like you said, 10 years for men, 8 years for ladies? they work in one of the listed posts. There are now significant employment differences in the irresistible harm to workers in the same job. The OSH and occupational health system has also developed a lot, and together they protect the health of the worker better than at the time of the introduction of the benefit. However, the employer has an obligation to assess at specific intervals the harms in the workplace and to draw up a plan of measures to remedy them. This mandatory documentation, verified by the OSH authority, reflects the circumstances under which they are actually working in each workplace. The early retirement scheme is no longer part of the pension system since 1 January 2012, given that the 2011 CXIV on Hungary's economic stability is no longer part of the pension system. Act VI. As a main rule, an old-age pension may be established only after the retirement age has been completed. Pre-age pensions? So are early retirements? From 2012 onwards, it became a pre-age benefit. The source of the expenditure on pre-age benefits is the National Family and Social Policy Fund, and the funds needed for the payment of benefits will continue to be insured, which is why, of course, in the 2015 budget, the payment of these benefits is guaranteed, and everyone can expect to pay them next year. Of course, the acquired early entitlement can be enforced without a time limit, and even under the current rules, the acquisition of early retirement rights will take place under the same conditions until the end of the year. During the conversion of pre-age benefits, the government considered it important to provide the most difficult workers with the possibility of retirement before retirement age. For underground mining workers, the temporary mining allowance allows them to retire no matter the age limit, after 25 years of underground work. The amendment adopted last year is also an extra discount for miners, who have worked for at least 3 years in a position of age reduction. The provision of these benefits is based on the well-known fact that underground miners work under special climatic conditions, in many cases under duress, which clearly involves various joint abrasion, leading to the inevitable premature deterioration of the organism. Taking all this into account, it includes T/2141. Legislative proposal No. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] explanatory memorandum to CCVIII 2012 Law 68. In its present form, §2 of the Act temporarily extended the acquisition of early retirement rights until 31 December 2014. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-12-01-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the case of people who have become unfit for work, the possibility of decent retirement will be removed, Mr. Secretary of State. Look at their budget, in which some HUF 34 000 million is less spent [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How much?]] I'm telling you the number, look at it, you know what you're doing. Wasn't it enough that you took away the tax relief from the people, the possibility of early retirement, private pension savings were confiscated? ! Wasn't it enough that they made workers vulnerable through the Labour Code? Wasn't it enough that they made the strike law so normal that a strike couldn't be organised in this country? Wasn't it enough that they wouldn't accept an unconventional budget? Isn't it enough for you to bring this country into poverty, that 4 million people live the way they do? ! It's not enough, it's not enough for you that child poverty goes where, even this, even this one, is deprived of this minimum discount from people who have become professionally unfit? ! Do you know how this ends? They're gonna drive you away. That's the end of it, so I can't accept the answer.
u2014-12-01-110	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes to 40, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When can Hungarian agriculture be released from the grip of Fidesz buddies? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2014-12-01-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently Prime Minister Viktor Orbán took part in Felcsút at the inauguration of a government's nearby businessman's cattle farm, followed by Minister Sándor Fazekas and Csányi Sándor OTP-president and CEO of OTP, they marched over the Alcsút box, where the Wheatkalász 66 Felcsút Kft. They were at the handover of the mine valley mangalica plant. Orbán talked about the fact that Hungary is an agricultural country, that there is a future in agriculture, that the sector has a significant role to play in growth, and that respect must therefore be given to those working in agriculture. We can totally agree with those words, although from your mouth, let's face it, it's completely untrue. Then why wasn't the respect of agricultural workers important when the concerned kft was involved. Did he own the entire Valley of Váli in the field contest? Where was respect when the locals were deprived of the use of the land of their ancestors? Where was the respect when they did not hear the complaint of Cayaro and his region? The Prime Minister also recalled that in recent years the Hungarian state has spent approximately HUF 350 billion on the establishment and modernisation of livestock farms. It sounds good, but tell me, Mr. Secretary, if there was a significant amount of these winning candidates who are not your close acquaintance. You know, there are many of us in Hungary today, who are sick of the fact that it is almost impossible to operate in this country without adequate fidesz connections. It was also said that development aid for HUF 1200 billion could come into agriculture in the future, but if it is also distributed in the current way, it will only serve to fill their own pockets and will not create new jobs. In his speech, the Prime Minister congratulated Mayor Lőrinc Mészáros Fidesz-KDNP and his family on their success. We would also congratulate you on this success if we did not know about the entrepreneur that there is strong government support behind the fast-come billions. After the tramp scandal and the mounds, he could now win hundreds of millions of agricultural development money from people who really would have created jobs on the ground, who would really have been able to boost Hungarian agriculture. It is no wonder, then, that the country's leaders were amazed at this great success, and even the Prime Minister's praise was due to this entrepreneur; of course, not to those people who would have been happy to earn a decent living instead of being praised by the Prime Minister. I ask the Secretary of State when the system of grants will change, so that not only your friends can win these applications. When does the application system for state land change so that it does not happen that a small king close to you will destroy seven villages? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! ? Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-112	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Mr Bitay.
u2014-12-01-113	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll start with what we agree with. If I understand your words correctly, you agree that agriculture is the driving sector of the national economy, which gives 23-25 percent of GDP, and we agree on that. [[17.50]] And as I understand it correctly, the HUF 1200 billion that went to rural development support was also appreciated by you as a positive one, and I also value it as a positive one. However, what we do not agree with, and I would like to draw your attention here to a few things, write here that the locals have been robbed of the land of their ancestors. Well, I'd like to point out to you: the claim is that this land was state property, not the land of the locals; we are talking about state land. The second claim, the Valley you mentioned, there's an agricultural company that used that land in the past, and now there's more than 35 people using it. In addition, I would like to remind you that so far, the Mészáros Lőrinc, or his company, has been told that he does not have an animal, even though he did, is now renovating a livestock farm, setting up mangalicas and cattle farms, and now the problem is why he has a livestock establishment. Dear Congressman, I would like to say to you that knowledge of the legislation is very, very important to you and to me. Animal welfare subsidies are not individual decisions made under discretionary powers; that is the case, my dear Member. Anyone who participates in this program and goes on it, he's entitled to it. You'd be entitled to one, say, if you had a pig farm or anyone else in the country. More than 600 people received from this tender source, and by the way, HUF 8.5 billion was available, so not on the basis of an individual decision-making mechanism, but on the basis of those who agree to these conditions, this support is otherwise due. What he said about the land law, to be more precise, in his interpellation, he mentioned that we are opening these gates wide open and giving room for foreign land grabbing, in the document he described: "Well, if you open the Vienna press and see what they say about the land traffic law, then I cannot believe that there is a debate between us, and you really read from it that the Austrian brother-in-laws are patting our shoulders here, and congratulate us on how well we help Austrian farmers to get their land in Hungary. Well, what I'm asking you is why, in Brussels, the infringement proceedings against the Land Traffic Act have been initiated. You write in your interpellation that you give space to foreigners. It doesn't allow room for foreigners, which is why this whole procedure has been initiated with regard to the law on land. It also suggests, more specifically, that only those who have some help or that few have access to or are able to win the tenders can win the tenders. Dear Congressman, I can only provide you with facts about my own State Secretary, not subjective numbers. In 2010, 600 people used state land, and now more than 6,000 people use these state land. What I can tell you is that I think it logically comes from the fact that it's not for a few people, it's for a lot more. The project shows the area to the farmers exactly ten times what it was before. And I'd like to highlight one more thing. No offense to me, but with these alarms, you tried to run for office during the election. You started in an individual constituency, and there you tried to make people think that land affairs in Hungary are going badly. But you didn't win, but the Fidesz congressman won, and he won this district by two thirds. Neither we in Parliament nor where you live believe what you say about these matters. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-01-115	I don't accept the answer, not even because there are more claims in it that I think are not true. On the one hand, I don't understand how a secretary of state could say that state land is not for the locals. Well, whose is it? Whose land is it, if not for the Hungarian people, Mr. Secretary of State? [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] And yes, they should have given this land to the applications. You said, Mr. Secretary, that land is not for the locals, and it should have been for them to win this land, not for Lőrinc Mészáros and your friends, on the border of seven villages, Mr. Secretary of State, that is the problem here. And the fact that he just received hundreds of millions of forints to keep animals because he didn't have any animals? Is that an answer? Now we're gonna do this by handing out state land to our buddies, and since they don't meet the legal requirements, then we're gonna give them hundreds of millions of forints so they can keep an animal out of it? I can't accept that, Mr. Secretary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes to 37, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. What are we giving for 169 billion? It's an address. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-12-01-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The 2015 budget bill is bleeding from many wounds, less child welfare and social costs, but more money is available for the Prime Minister's hobby and stadium building. I do not want to deal with this at the moment, but I do think that it is one of the most mysterious appropriations of the 2015 budget, according to which the state will sell or use something for HUF 169 billion next year. What's behind this is exactly what's behind it, and no one's answered that. We have heard several questions in this House, but we have not received any concrete answers. Not only did the government not respond to us parliamentary representatives, but also to the State Court of Auditors and the Fiscal Council. This is why the State Audit Office has also designated this number as the most risky allocation. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, In itself, it is outrageous that the government is hiding its plans from the Parliament, which must decide on the budget law. It is also outrageous that the bodies responsible for controlling government work are not given the necessary information to carry out their work. The only more insolence would be if the government had just bluffed this 169 billion in revenue in order to achieve the deficit target on paper at least. Dear Secretary of State, So far, your government has squandered people's money and possessions so that they can maintain the corrupt government system. They paid generously for the Russian background Surgutnyeftegaz and gave 500 billion forints of public money for shares with only half the value today. German shareholders of E.ON were generously rewarded with Hungarian taxpayers' money, while they could cause a loss of up to HUF 600 billion to the state and thus to the taxpayers. They generously gave up a business worth HUF 2-3 billion a month for the benefit of an offshore company, which belongs to the interests of Viktor Orbán's friend István Garancsi. They took and spent nearly three million people's pension savings of HUF 3000 billion on stadiums and end-of-the-century orders, and now they want 200 billion. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you, what do you want to play for your friends at a price of 169 billion forints? Is the government planning to transfer domestic natural gas reservoirs into private, possibly foreign private hands? Does the government plan to sell MOL shares? Please stop keeping secrets and answer how this 169 billion forints will flow into the Hungarian budget. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will hear the answer to the interpellation question from Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You misinterpreted the budget, because this 169 billion is in no way a loss of assets to the State. It does not mean loss of assets because it forms part of the revenue of the investment fund. In the investment fund, we enter the assets sold by the State on the revenue side, and on the expenditure side, which we make public investment, which increases the value of state assets. The investment can only be carried out if the revenue is realised. So in no way does the sale of state assets mean loss of assets, and in no way does it mean fulfilling the deficit target on paper, so it is not right here at all. Let's look at your specific questions. Is the government planning to transact domestic natural gas reservoirs into private, potentially foreign private hands? No. Second, does the government plan to sell MOL shares? No. The next question is, what do you want to play at the bottom? At the bottom of Aaron, we do not want to sell or sell anything, openly, through tendering, evaluation and according to the established law, of course, for the first time, according to the government's decision. [[18.00]] We would like to generate this revenue primarily from frequency revenue, concession sales, movable and real estate sales. And if you'll excuse me, Congressman, after I have some time, I've answered all the questions. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Let's look back at the time of your administration. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, it will not happen as it did at the time of the MSZP, for example, the sale of the Sukoro land exchange, which was a significant state asset disadvantage. [[Noise, interjections. ? Zoltán Grimlock: Who said that?]] Or it won't happen like the sale of Moscow real estate. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] which meant HUF 17 billion minus during the MSZP government; or the sale of the post office [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] 500 million, or a freeway concession that would have caused this country inaccessible damage for hundreds of billions. Or the sale of Dunaferr for a few hundred million forints, then a five-year obligation [[Continued noise, interrogations on both sides]] or don't give me the God, the outsourcing of the buses in Pécs during your sub-mayorship [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] which the court then declared null and void, and said that it had caused the city of Pécs hundreds of millions of dollars in damage. The last time you admitted that, by the way, you gave up the mayorship. [[Defiance, uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But if, by the way, you're talking about corruption in this government, I suggest you turn around, there's Dezső Foolish sitting. [[Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Dr. Répássy Robert: He's gone.]] who is suspected of being charged with the crime of bribery by a public official. Recently, Gábor Simon, former Socialist Member of Parliament, was sitting in this faction in March. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The former vice president of the MSZP is a felony of fiscal fraud, a misdemeanor of the use of false private documents, a felony forgery of authentic act as an instigator. Honourable Congressman, I could, of course, continue the line. I suggest you wash your pants and your party before you accuse anyone of corruption, the current government. [[Defiance and great applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ? Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-01-120	Mr. Secretary, at other times express your thoughts differently. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I will now ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-12-01-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You seem to be getting less and less pressurized, Secretary of State. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Someone needs their pants, and you need to wash your mouth. But I didn't hear Ildikó Vida resign; I didn't hear you resign. [[Continued noise and interrogations from the ranks of the governing parties.]] Or Mihály Varga would have resigned because of the corruption charges that I didn't make, the whole country and the international press are talking about. [[Crying from both sides. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] And I'm sorry, I can't believe you, because you've been promised public procurement for the Paks project, and you've been promised publicity, and now you're yourself. [[Noise, interrogations from both sides.]] They're lying about bringing in a law that makes everything cryptic. How can I believe that this HUF 169 billion will not be squandered in the same way as in the investment in Paks? I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, you lie all the time. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] not only in our eyes; they lie to the Hungarian people. I can't accept your answer, and I resent that tone. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert Tállai to András: Next time tell me they're a gang of thieves, that's all!]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-122	Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 108 yes, 37 votes not, without abstention. It's 6:05, we're at the end of interpellation. Before we move to the hour of immediate questioning, we will take a two-minute technical break in order to allow all our fellow Members who leave the Chamber without delay to take care of their official business. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. You, Prime Minister, did you have a chance? Do you think today's children have one? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister János Lázár, the Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent task. I respectfully ask whether you accept or wait for the Prime Minister. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat.]]
u2014-12-01-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2014-12-01-124	Thank you very much. I would like to inform both you and this House that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions. Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Tóth, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Is the farmer free? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. [[For signal:]] Congressman has indicated that he accepts the person who is responding. Thank you very much. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-01-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian National Bank is an organization independent of the government. The MNB shall perform its tasks as laid down in the Central Bank Act and shall achieve its objective in compliance with the instrument of incorporation. Its primary objective is to achieve and maintain price stability without compromising the stability of the financial intermediary system, to increase its resilience and to ensure its sustainable contribution to economic growth. The audit of the operation of the MNB shall be carried out by the Supervisory Board. However, the Board ceased its mandate on 5 May 2014 and the audit body's work would now be particularly necessary, as there has been a number of news in recent years that the Hungarian National Bank is spending hundreds of billions for purposes outside its core tasks. According to the Central Bank Act, it is the responsibility of the respective party group to appoint a supervisory board for the MNB. However, this has not happened since the establishment of the new Parliament. Therefore, my fellow Members, in their proposal for a resolution, have repeatedly initiated the Parliament's request to the State Audit Office to carry out an out-of-order audit of the management of the Hungarian National Bank and its activities which do not fall within the scope of its basic tasks. The initiative was submitted to Parliament two months ago, but the motion was not included in the series. The audit tasks are currently carried out by the Internal Audit Directorate and the Auditor in the MNB. Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your specific answer to two questions. What is the reason why no members of the Supervisory Board have been proposed so far? And the second question is: when will the Hungarian National Bank finally have a supervisory board? Thank you, I look forward to your reply.
u2014-12-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have really read the Act on the National Bank of Hungary well. We read exactly the same from him, so the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is an independent organization, which makes decisions on its own. However, this does not mean that it does not have to report, as Parliament itself has to report at least two times a year, and its activities are monitored and examined by the State Audit Office. [[18.10]] I believe that the Ministry of National Economy, in terms of why the Supervisory Board cannot be elected by Parliament, has no task or authority in this regard, since no ministry can detract from the function of the Parliament and has no obligation to the Parliament in this regard. We believe that the operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is legal, and that the decisions concerning the management, both in terms of revenue acquisition and other activities, are able to report it legally, as I have said, both before the Parliament and its committees and before the State Audit Office and the future supervisory board. I think it is important that the independence of the National Bank of Hungary should exist, since, by virtue of its statutory obligation, it is possible to ensure price stability as its main task, to carry out this activity only if no organization, any political organisation, Parliament, exerts any pressure on it in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csaba Tóth has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-129	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, I asked you two simple questions, but none of them were answered. Nobody wants to put pressure on the operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, of course, but we just want to be clear about it, and if there were a supervisory board who could carry out this supervision, we might not have to meet with such cases in the press, such as the purchase of the Tiszaroff Castle for HUF 450 million, the purchase of the former IPOSZ Headquarters for HUF 450 million, the old Buda Town Hall for HUF 1 billion for HUF 850 million, or perhaps the brightest star is the Eiffel Palace already mentioned, which was bought for EUR 45.3 million by the National Investment Agency's publication in January for only EUR 40 million. But there are news here about violin shopping, paintings, super piano, and perhaps last week's latest news is that Gábor Borókai's daughter's company received a 200 million-dollar commission from the Hungarian National Bank. Well, maybe that's why we need a supervisory board. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-130	Thank you very much. Secretary of State doesn't want to live with a one-minute rejoinder. [[Noise, interruptions in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the foreign and foreign minister an immediate question, 'Doesn't he feel like a political windcock after demanding the taxation of luxury swimming pools in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa and in Parliament, and then he made a turn in the government of the rich because of his personal involvement? It's an address. Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó Secretary of State to respond to his immortal public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts or waits for the Minister.
u2014-12-01-131	Mr President, Péter Szijjártó cannot at least get away with personal responses, so I would like to give the opportunity to my dearest fellow Member. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-132	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member and the House that the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we trust the Fidesz's turn again? It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask you whether you will accept the person of the responder or wait for the Prime Minister to answer.
u2014-12-01-133	Thank you for the opportunity, but I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2014-12-01-134	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: why does the government eviscerate civil servants who are already underpaid at 10:00 a.m.? It's an address. Here you go, Deputy Group Leader, you have the floor.
u2014-12-01-135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, The news has come to light that the Prime Minister's Office first introduced 10 hours a day, and then the practice in the public sector is increasing. What I would like to say is that how workers work in the Prime Minister's Office is right about what you said to the press that this is a service and it is not mandatory to work there, but because the employment of workers within the public sector is becoming more and more widespread every day, it raises a number of questions. You say, for example, that everything needs to be done to protect families, to promote family life, but let's be honest, this is a practice that if it becomes common, it can be considered anti-family, because a lot of parents can't take their children to kindergarten and school, because it simply doesn't fit into a 10-hour working day. Obviously, the parents involved need to find a way to resolve this, and they have very little opportunity to do so. Therefore, this measure is essentially anti-family in itself if it continues to ring on the basis of the signs we have just seen. What I would like to say, Minister, is that when someone chooses a profession for himself and says that he wants to work in the public sector later on, he sees two things in front of him. He notes that they are usually employed for lower wages than in the competition sphere, but on the other hand, the state or the municipality, where the person wins an occupation, compensates for this lower wage by guaranteeing a predictable working environment and a predictable improvement. This country had to wait until 2007, after the change of regime, for public tasks to be assessed, then a six-level functional grouping of 9045 public tasks under the state-government system was arranged. We have seen that this is the current state, and the then government said that this will be the starting point for state reform, and then we will get somewhere. At the moment, unfortunately, we cannot know exactly what public tasks the state, the local government, is doing, and we do not know exactly where we will be going at the end of the process you call state reform, although we should be looking forward to this, by the way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Where we're going to keep you as we go along. So please, Minister, light this up for me. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-136	The answer will be given by Minister János Lázár, by not paying any attention, so I think that the same level must be ensured by the Minister.
u2014-12-01-137	Thank you very much. The opposition representatives in this genre have this advantage, I think, Mr President, so I do not want to take advantage of the possibility of time-over. However, I would like to inform the Member of some things, thanking him for the opportunity to give us a way to talk about this important issue. First of all, I thank you for your insights and fairness from the point of view of the fact that I believe that whoever has government practice in this Parliament or wants to gain the trust of voters and gain government experience will have to be familiar with the idea that there are no time limits for work in the central government, whatever the Code of Labour or the Public Service Legislative Package says. Of course, we have no intention of extending this to other areas of the public service, and even so, I note that American studies are remarkable that the average worker in America works 50 hours a week, and I fear this cannot be separated from the country's success. Therefore, the amount of work done must also be linked to the country's effectiveness. We also know very well that today, in this country, an average employee has eight hours in his employment contract, in most cases he has to work more or take a second job to ensure the conditions for his livelihood. My answer therefore consists of several parts. On the one hand, they cannot impose such expectations on the central government, because life operates in a completely different way, no matter what their expectations are. So, indeed, the Prime Minister's Office is not measured in hours of work, but in service and profession, and many of my colleagues have worked this weekend, for example, and this, although the law gives us the opportunity, of course, we would never be able to afford it, because these classes are withdrawn from the family and are not affordable. Another part of what I have to say is that this is not planned to be a general phenomenon, and we intend to introduce a public service career model in 2016, which will provide adequate guarantees, advancements and careers for public service workers, and the State Reform Committee will discuss this work on a weekly basis, which I hope I will be able to provide the House with detailed information on. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-138	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman János Volner. Here you go. [[18.20]]
u2014-12-01-139	Thank you very much, Minister, for your words, because there will be no common practice. I have to admit that we have received a lot of requests from public sector workers who were afraid that this would ring everywhere, but if the Minister says so, you may, if you do so, be made aware of yourself. Another very important thing is that the process of state reform can only take place in a planned way. We need to assess the state of play, we need to draw up an organisational chart of the public tasks that certain organisations perform, and you need to give the workers and the whole Hungarian society a vision of exactly what will be the final destination at the end of the process called state reform. Only this design can guarantee that this process really takes place professionally and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, that's the word.
u2014-12-01-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me share my experience with you as a person who has been involved in municipal work, and I have the opportunity to meet regular voters that, in relation to public service, taxpayers have a nuanced opinion. Tax-paying voters want as few public servants as possible to work as much as possible, and this would be an affordable tax burden for them. Let's face it, though, that, in Hungary, taxpayers who do not work in the public service often have an aversion, i.e. whether they work for their money, whether they work for it, and whether there is a measurable achievement. Therefore, in the field of public services, taxpayers have a legitimate expectation that they should be as high as possible. This is the most important mission of the State Reform Committee. We are doing this work under the leadership of Professor András Patyi, and in the coming weeks we will inform the public in detail about what we have come up with so far. The objective of the State Reform Committee is to assess tasks, define tasks, clean up profiles, clean up tasks and a clear set of responsibilities. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question, "What is damaging public confidence?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Répássy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I see that Congresswoman is indicating that she accepts the person who is responding. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-01-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, at the Justice Commission meeting, Fidesz cowardlylyly arrested the LMP's proposal to subject politicians and state leaders to a mandatory assetisation investigation. That would mean, in effect, facing the facts, Mr. Secretary, that you do not wish to look the voters in the eye and report on how you can afford luxury watches, luxury estates, luxury travels to New Zealand, luxury rock concerts, changing-sized houses, all the things that citizens who send us into Parliament can't dream of. It is not enough that this proposal has been canceled, even a justification has been added, and Ferenc Papcsák himself has been so kind and justified his opinion. He doesn't think it'd be good for public confidence to have a wealth investigation against politicians. Well, in the opinion of Possibly Other Politics, this would not destroy public confidence, but it is precisely what is now, that Hungarian people simply do not know how their elected representatives will be richer than they could be expected on the basis of their salary, as much as their fees would allow. I have to add that some people in Fidesz don't take kindly to this virtuoso. Zoltán Pokorni said that this urization had left earlier, but it is no longer acceptable today. I think, however, that you are wrong, in spite of all my respect, Mr Pokorni, because this virtuosity has not been acceptable before. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán tells us that it is good to be rich and that the poor are encouraged to imitate the rich, and Sándor Font recently said that he believes that LMP overdimensions poverty in this country. Dear Secretary of State, After you have given up millions of people and each indicator shows that Hungary has become poor under your governance, I think the minimum is that politicians stand up and make public where they have gained their wealth, where you can afford such luxury. Dear Secretary of State, Do you agree with Mr. Ferenc Papcsák and the claim that a property investigation would destroy public trust in this country?
u2014-12-01-144	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the one hand, he had few points that fall within the competence of the Minister of Justice, and on the other hand, he cannot interpel Mr Pappsák, so he asks me what I think of Mr Pappsák. It's kind of hard for me. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Members of Parliament are making a wide-ranging declaration of assets. For many years there has been a debate as to whether the declaration of assets of its Members is capable of actually pursuing the growth of its representatives. Do I think that the case of Gábor Simon is the best example of losing his shit? I'm sorry to say this? 'Cause if a Member conceals such income in his declaration of assets, and anyone finds out to the satisfaction that the assets of a Member are much larger or greater than the amount, scale in the declaration of assets, there may be a thorough procedure in this regard with the committee responsible for verifying the declaration of assets. Of course, there's no problem with that? As you suggested? of course, in the case of a public official or a judge, other bodies are involved in the verification of the declaration of assets. For example, did the President of the Republic recently absolve a judge about his property statement? because he couldn't account for his asset statement and the wealth gain that wasn't in the asset statement? The President of the National Court of Justice has proposed that the President of the Republic should absolve him. Without discussing every single point of your ten-page bill now, I can tell you how the property declaration system works, and a number of scandalous cases have been brought to light in connection with the declaration of assets. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's a matter of speaking to a congresswoman for a moment.
u2014-12-01-147	Thank you very much. I see you still don't feel the position you're in. Here is the Foreign Minister with his luxury estate, the Vice President of Fidesz, who goes on luxury trips instead of work, András Giro-Szász with his property, which he received at a price from the Fidesz Deputy Group Leader, the Fidesz Minister, who still hasn't made clear how he ended up in London and other luxury hotels, where he got his luxurious watch and all that. And let me remind you that they weren't always so squeamish. Here is the 2006 Hungarian Vizsla publication in my hand [[He's showing it to me.]] Here you can see János Kóka, Ferenc Gyurcsány, showing his luxury watch, his suit, his outfit, his helicopters, even a swimming pool. Even in 2006, Fidesz knew where it was ahead, and what was demanded of the then ruling party in opposition is exactly what we now demand of you, but you are turning away from this wish, which clearly shows that you have long since forgotten why you came to power, you are quite simply intoxicated with what you have received. One thing has changed, and what has changed is that you are drunk on power, and there is enough of that on the street, which is why there is a public uproar in Hungary among the people.
u2014-12-01-148	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder will be followed by Secretary of State Répássy Róbert.
u2014-12-01-149	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Again, he didn't say anything that was within the attorney general's purview, but I'll try to answer you. If there were no representatives' declarations of property, then all the cases you've been talking about with the current governing parties wouldn't have been made public. It is precisely the declarations of assets that allow one of our fellow Members to account for his wealth in public. Another question is, of course, whether it is right to be a Member of Parliament with great wealth or small assets, but it is not up to the obligation to make a declaration of assets, because the purpose of the declaration of assets is to follow the growth of wealth. For each Member of Parliament, the increase in wealth can be determined year after year, and if there is no explanation for the increase in wealth, then, for example, a Member of Parliament, such as Gábor Simon, who was first arrested in advance and then placed under house arrest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ágh, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: - How does the government plan to implement the law enforcement career model? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. Congressman tells me that you accept the person who is responding. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am pleased that, in my question, we can deal with a matter that is not a matter of mood, but of the country's real problems. It is very important that all those who serve the state are respected in what way. Today we have talked about all those who are involved in the operation of the state as civil servants, but it is important that we also talk about those who work in the armed forces. [[18.30]] Since its establishment in 2010, the government has set itself as a priority goal to restore public security, to do so by tightening up laws and, on the other hand, by strengthening law enforcement agencies. Over the past four years, the Fidesz government has restored public security, strengthened the police, and now there is a permanent police presence in every settlement in the country, and one of the most stringent criminal codes in Europe. The draft budget bill before Parliament for next year includes further important steps to increase public security. Our country needs a strong police force, so according to the draft 2015 budget, the police can manage it from a larger source next year by HUF 16 billion than this year. In addition, it will be possible to start raising the wages of law enforcement workers. We consider the implementation of the law enforcement career model to be an important task in order to make the careers of workers in the sector more predictable, secure, predictable and stable. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how the government plans to implement the career model for law enforcement. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can give good news to the professional members of the armed and law enforcement agencies, as the Armed and Police Life Career programme has reached the finish line as part of the public service career programme. The substance, as has been said before, is before the State Reform Committee. Before that, we had a broad consultation. We asked the professional staff, discussed it, discussed it with the organisations representing interest, the Hungarian law enforcement staff and the representatives of the organisations concerned, and as a result we presented our proposal to the State Reform Committee. The career program expresses the government's intention to increase the attractiveness of these public service, including professional members of armed and police bodies, as well as the attractiveness of these careers, and to recognise the service that professional professionals perform in the public interest of Hungary, in the interests of the citizens of Hungary, and to express our intention to ensure a reliable, predictable, secure future and a safe existence for professional staff. This programme, this professional and law enforcement career, is based on three pillars: on a promotional salary system, then on the insurance system and on the housing support system. I can also give you good news that the 2015 budget includes HUF 44 billion within the Prime Minister's Office's chapter in order to increase the average salary of 30 percent for soldiers, police officers, emergency officers, firefighters, those serving in prison, those serving in the secret service and those serving in the NAV's criminal service from 1 July 2015. I'll continue in the second part. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Péter Agh. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-155	Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very welcome that, thanks to the decision of the Hungarian people and economic growth, we have the opportunity, as a continuation of the wage increase of teachers and health workers, to raise the wages of law enforcement workers, and also to introduce the career model that we have talked about so much about. Now it's time for law enforcement workers. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what additional elements of this wage increase will be.
u2014-12-01-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-157	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as I said, as a first step, an average salary increase of 30 per cent will take place from 1 July 2015 and then, according to our plans, an additional salary increase of 5 per cent from 1 January 2016 until 1 January 2019. As a result, it can be said that, compared to current salaries, an average salary increase of 50 per cent will be made by 1 January 2019 for professional members of armed and law enforcement bodies. But as I said, not only does the salary and promotion system belong to this program, this career model, but the insurance system and housing support system make this program complete. Once again, this is before the State Reform Committee, after the decisions we will inform the public, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the 2015 budget as a first step, since it has HUF 44 billion available to implement the first phase. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What will be the fate of the agricultural land? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the response.
u2014-12-01-159	Of course.
u2014-12-01-160	Your identity is accepted. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As the public has already learned and learned, not so long ago, in recent days, the two-thirds majority of Parliament has adopted next year's tax laws and, of course, has amended several laws that will have relevance next year. This was, among other things, the amendment of Act C of 1990, the Law on the levying of local taxes, as a result of which you, the majority of the government, amended this law, according to which a local government may levy local tax on all assets, property elements which are not subject to tax or are not subject to tax by the central government, in Hungarian, the state does not tax, and otherwise no other sectoral law is prohibited. As a result, we have come to this point, as you know very well, that from roughly 3,200 municipalities, we do not have usque 2400-2500, or we have little business tax revenue, and so we will be forced to levy local taxes, as we all know that next year the municipalities will have to face more withdrawal. And indeed, as one of the preservers of rural life, the land is almost the only property that can be taxed. As a result, many municipalities will be forced to levy taxes on agricultural land next year. We thought that there was a consensus between the parliamentary parties that local land should not be subject to tax. Therefore, my fellow MSZP Members and I have tabled an amendment that would exclude agricultural and forestry land from the local municipal tax, in Hungarian, and could not be taxed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what the position of the government is, whether he supports the fact that we do not tax the land, whether he supports the fact that we can continue to provide the rural reserve. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-01-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-163	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In fact, it is well said that municipal authorities will be entitled to introduce municipal taxes in addition to local taxes as of 1 January 2015, which, as it is well expressed, may apply to all tax items which are not covered by the public burden laid down by law. In the spirit of their economic autonomy, local authorities have had the possibility to exercise the local tax law sovereignly and to develop local tax policy. The law adopted on 18 November only extends the scope of taxation of municipal authorities in order to make local tax policy easier to adapt to local specificities. Local authorities operating 25 years ago have demonstrated that they exercise their tax jurisdiction in a responsible and prudent manner. I am sure that this will be no different in the future, regardless of the extension of the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities. It confirms that 1 December, so today, was the deadline for local authorities to set the tax charge. I would like to tell you that so far in Hungary there have been two municipalities, the municipalities of Hajdúböszörmény and Hajdúnánás. Based on the information received from it, a border was drawn there, so only the larger estate system was taxed, with 200 HUF per golden crown, in consultation with the farmers for the purpose of maintaining the outskirts. I think that the mayors of settlements are well prepared to do so, with a sense of responsibility. At the same time, the agricultural portfolio has initiated discussions on rural life to safeguard rural sustainability. [[18.40]] We consider it important to maintain the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises, so that government principles such as the priority support of livestock farmers are not damaged. These aspects do not necessarily arise only in the case of agricultural land. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] , but also in relation to the related other means of production, production factors. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-164	Thank you very much. For a moment, Congressman Zsolt Legény has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-165	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, you didn't calm me down. I think we can agree that most of all, agricultural land is the preserver of the countryside, and I think that if this land is opened up to tax, then will the municipalities eventually be forced to do so? because many municipalities, as I mentioned, are in a difficult financial situation? To seize any opportunity that might result in additional resources for them. That is why we have tabled this amendment with my fellow Members in MSZP, and that is why I asked if the Government would support this legislative amendment. It is not comforting for us to tax the soil in the future. Is that what I think? Like I said? There was a kind of consensus between these parliamentary parties, which seems to have been broken. Thank you.
u2014-12-01-166	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will take the floor for a minute. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, I can assure you that the government is taking the utmost care in this matter, examining a number of possible options and modeling their economic and social impacts in detail, so the final decision will be based on facts and not on emotions. I would like to remind you that two out of 3,200 municipalities have currently chosen the possibility of introducing a land tax in the municipality. I very much hope that, as Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, I very much hope and do not recommend to any municipality the further introduction of this tax. I very much hope that the municipalities will not take advantage of it, because the land as a limited animal is the value of this and its population-preserving role, the rural preserver,? it must continue to retain its role, and the greatest difficulty is in disadvantaged settlements, where the land itself means life. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Of course, taxation of this is not eligible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what sports and other opportunities does the newly transferred Spike Hall enrich the capital and NewBuda? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr István Simicskó Secretary of State responsible for sport to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-12-01-169	Yes, I accept, thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-170	The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, the Spike Hall Sports Centre was handed over. With the renewal of the multifunctional sport facility built in NewBuda, a long-standing investment was carried out. Budapest left behind a huge debt and more shame after the socialist-free democratic government. One of these is the Spike Hall in Szépmányos, which stood unfinished and unused for 17 years at XI. in one of the most pronounced developing parts of the district. The story dates back to the 1990s. The Spike Hall, which was planned for 1996, but which was eventually abandoned by the socialist government at that time, had been dreaming about the fate of the building for fifteen years. During the second Orbán government, the abandoned building was managed by the National Sports Centres. In 2012, the government declared the investment to be a priority investment for the national economy and provided funding for the completion of the investment. Finally, this sports hall was built. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what sports and other opportunities the facility provided last week offers. Have you thought about the sports opportunities of those with limited mobility when planning them? Will the further development of the sports complex continue? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer can be heard from Secretary of State István Simicskó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-173	[[There's no microphone.]] Mr President, Honourable Congressman, [[An intervention from the ranks of the MSZP: Now what? ? Dr. László Varga: Card!]] He's in there. [[Your name appears on the display.]]
u2014-12-01-174	Please confirm the Secretary of State's watch.
u2014-12-01-175	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, It is a great joy for NewBuda and the whole capital, for college and university sports life, that after a long time and after a long Calvary the Tüskekcsarnok, NewBuda's new beauty, and it will function as a new sports citadel for the entire capital in the future. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to tell you the concrete fact that, in the past twenty-five years, only the Orbán governments have built such large-scale sports facilities in Budapest and across the country before I turn to the virtues of the sports complex. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: This is not so!]] Just think that the Papp László Sports Arena was also built under the first Orbán government, and even the Phoenix Halls in Debrecen took place at the same time. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Yes!]] I would also like to mention the recent sports complex of Debrecen and Ferencváros, as well as the Arena of Győr, which has really enriched Hungary's sports opportunities with significant creations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Sports facilities are built nationwide, from handball halls to tourist houses, from running circles to gymnasiums. Why are we doing this? Because it's our job, it's our job to ensure the conditions for sports, just so healthy generations can grow up through sport. Indeed, the new sports citadel in New Buda is one of the state-of-the-art, multi-functional arenas of the country with a capacity of 4,000 people, offering nearly 20 sports opportunities for appearance and competitions, from table tennis to basketball, from hockey to judo or wrestling. I would like to say that there will not only be a venue for sporting events in New Buda, but also international and domestic cultural events can be organised in this excellent establishment. There are 35 lockers, 435 cars available in the building, by the way. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] At the second stage, the hall will be expanded with a swimming pool complex suitable for a thousand people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-177	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply, which also made it clear that in preparing the renovation plans, the designers took into account the expectations and habits of the age, so that the complex was designed accordingly. In addition to sports, it will be possible to organize competitions and other events that require a comfortable, large audience space. Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-12-01-178	Thank you very much. István Simicskó Secretary of State has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-179	Thank you very much. He couldn't make it in the last two minutes, he asked me about sports for the disabled. Indeed, this complex is also suitable for sports for disabled athletes, there are four lockers that meet special needs. I would like to say once again that we are a sport-friendly government, and we have set a threefold target system in the field of sport: on the one hand, we want all children to play sports in Hungary; we bring excellent competitions to Hungary, we can host as many sporting events as possible, so that Hungarian fans can support our athletes and see world-class players at home; on this we need to ensure serious conditions, so we can build facilities. That's why we're doing all this, because we feel that sport means a lot to us. We are a great power in sport, and I hope that we can maintain this status in the future. We want us to become a sports-loving nation, to grow up with healthy spirituality, and to pass on the spirit of fair play to our children, so we want to build a sports-like nation. Thank you very much for the congressman's question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I respectfully ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-181	With all due respect, yes.
u2014-12-01-182	Thank you very much, the Member has indicated his acceptance of Mr Tállai, State Secretary. Accordingly, Mr Ander Balázs has the floor. Here you go. [[18.50]]
u2014-12-01-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Before the trade union demonstration on 21 November, Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga did not see any obstacle to the extension of the early retirement pension scheme. The same Mihály Varga would, however, root out the opportunities for early retirement in the 2015 budget bill he submitted. It is clear that NGM will no longer count on early retirement. Once again, it's a government-level coherence disorder. In light of this, it is no wonder that the Railway Trade Unions and the Solidarity Bus Transport Union should not allow your life to be shortened by 3 December. He called for another demonstration. Everyone is confused about the government's intention, since the maintenance of early retirement is supported not only by workers but also by employers. Even more incomprehensible is the government's attitude, as the state saves a little money, the budget does not cost a penny to finance the early retirement pension, as it is based on the additional contributions paid by employers. Why would they want to continue to cripple the workers? Why don't you realize that it's in the social interest to provide for an age discount? Whatever your propaganda statistics say, youth unemployment rates remain high. With the help of early retirement as an employment policy instrument, unemployment could be reduced, decent retirement and the possibility of peaceful ageing would remain. Jobbik is on the side of Hungarian workers who have been considered by you to be an eviscerated labour animal, who want to be robbed to death or even to the point of being crippled, and we very strongly demand that the possibility of early retirement be preserved. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-01-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's 152/2014, isn't it? Government Decree of 6 June 2004 48. The member of the Government responsible for pension policy is the Minister of EMMI and the Minister for Social Affairs under Rule 62. He organizes and manages the pension scheme within the meaning of § 3, but of course it is an honor to ask the Ministry of National Economy the immediate question. It is true that, in the presence of the Minister's two State Secretarys, he negotiated with the League Trade Unions on a number of matters concerning workers. He has discussed at least six issues with trade unions, and the preparation of the negotiations is still under way, which is under the control of State Secretary Sándor Czomba. I believe that not only on the issue of early retirement, but also on other issues involving workers, such as the minimum wage, there will be an agreement and an acceptable solution, just as the government found during the transformation of the cafeteria system. I think, however, that we must also accept that the change in the pension system requires restructuring and the introduction of reforms, and that we are going on this path. This has indeed been presented in the bill establishing the budget law, the debate of which begins tomorrow, so the outcome of that, I think, is nothing yet on this issue. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm running it. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-186	Thank you very much. For a moment, it's the congressman's turn. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The answer is an "A" bullshit, and I'd give you a "Secunda" in labor protection. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. The average age of Hungarian men, let's say, is about 70 years, in good times. However, the problems begin to peak between the ages of 55 and 60, especially in those who lacked the opportunities for recreation in New Zealand and have worked under working conditions that have certainly damaged their health. Let me remind you of the rail health anomalies of a few years ago, when thousands of railway workers were terrified of being declared unfit for work and service. There is a very good question: what will happen to these people? Are they being retrained as fake nails, stylists, or are they being put out on the street before the old-age pension? I believe these problems, like, underneath the Dubai palm trees or off the shore of one of those luxury swimming pools, sipping delicious cocktails. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] ? ? la Medgyessy, copyright by Szijjártó and Kósa? they are not visible, but Jobbik is also strongly in favour of Hungarian railmen and transport workers. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-01-188	Thank you very much. Mr. András Tállai has the floor for a moment. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-189	[[John Lazarus: Say it's right!]] I propose that we go back to the issue of early retirement, because since 1 January 2012, the early retirement scheme has not been part of the pension scheme, but has turned into an early-age benefit, and the resources for this benefit are available in the 2015 budget. Thus, the acquired early entitlement is, of course, enforceable without a time limit, and even under the rules in force, the acquisition of early retirement rights will take place under the same conditions until the end of the year. How the system of early retirement changes or does not change as from 1 January 2015, as I said, depends on whether the proposed bill is amended, whether it is supported by Parliament, a political group or the government. I think there's hope. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and there is a possibility that this will be able to change positively. Thank you.
u2014-12-01-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Whoever has a family is worth it? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2014-12-01-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, For years, we have been fighting in the LMP to make the government understand: a family worker and a child worker is not a burden, but a value. You have to appreciate it, you have to reward it. Moreover, it is a key to Hungary's competitiveness and, let me say, the key to solving the demographic crisis is that workers can reconcile work and private life in this country. Our motto in LMP is that I can have a job and a child, and we're proud of that, and that's why we're doing it. All this time in Fidesz, you've been talking about being so family-friendly, but now you're out of the bag, and you're the one who actually did that and said what Fidesz really thinks of family workers. You had a personal confession the other day, and in relation to the institution you run, you practically stated that it wasn't family-friendly. He gave such a flamboyant justification that it is not a job, it is a service, it is a start, but there is no end, and otherwise it is not mandatory to work there, and he added that it is necessary to work 10-12 hours to make Hungary the most dynamic developing country in Central and Eastern Europe. Dear Minister, There are two problems with what you said. On the one hand, what you say is true in reverse. Precisely those countries where work and private life can be combined by workers can develop dynamically, and there is a very obvious way of organising work, flexible work, the corresponding places must be implemented in the law and practiced, and then this can happen. And the other thing is, I don't know, Minister, if you've given any thought to what pattern it conveys when words like that leave your mouth. I think that every boss's job, his own institution, his company, his company is the most important thing. From the moment one of Hungary's ministers says such a sentence, can't every boss in this country, CEO, director, anyone who can afford not to have parents in kindergarten and kindergarten? Dear Minister, In short, I can put this question to you: Is a family person worth so much? Do you think so? And the other is, I can't help but react briefly to the fact that this is the pinnacle of cynicism, that this is the hour of work. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What he takes away from families on weekends, he doesn't pay for it, and then he says it's priceless because the time taken from the family is priceless. That's an infinitely cynical attitude.
u2014-12-01-192	Thank you very much. The answer to this question will be given by Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-01-193	Thank you very much. Mr President, First of all, on behalf of the government, I thank you for the great interest in the employment of the executive power, how we organise the work in the government. I'm honored by all means. Madam Congresswoman, I would like to inform you that, since I have been working here at the Prime Minister's Office, since 2012, I have indeed ordered additional work in accordance with the legislative framework, and I have informed all employees and all 1499 workers of this in writing. If you are a new entrant, you will undertake this service with knowledge of these conditions. Working in the country's central government and its arteries, central management, a Prime Minister's Office is not an ordinary job. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Nowhere is ordinary!]] What I can tell you is that in the last 25 years there has been no government in Hungary where the central government or the Ministry's top management would have been able to keep or enforce the fact that workers have to work for eight hours. It's not about taking on eight hours of work, it's about doing tasks that we're trying to do for the good of the country. You cannot measure this if you are a serious Member of Parliament, you cannot measure your own work, the work of Parliament, the work of legislation and enforcement by the rules applicable to ordinary workers. Out of the 1499 employees, one worker asked for the termination of his legal relationship by common accord because he could not fulfil the workload. More than that, each applicant who has requested that the organisation of work be different in view of his family should work less so that he can take his child to school or kindergarten, the Administrative Secretary of State has authorized this for everyone. So we acted with extreme fairness and caution. [[19.00]] As for my working methods, my person, or my personal working methods, this is well known to voters. I've been honored with their trust seven times, every time, not from a list, but directly won my mandate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As mayor or congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-194	Thank you very much, Minister. The congresswoman will take the floor for a moment, please.
u2014-12-01-195	Dear Minister, I can't count on my hands how many times I've heard from different executives that this is not an ordinary job where they work. I urge you once again to draw your attention to the fact that every leader thinks so about his own workplace, be it any company, be it any central administration. I think you should consider the fundamental fact that you use work organisation methods? And research proves that? practically efficiency and efficiency can be increased if we organise the work in a way that is appropriate to the needs of the worker. I think you should see that we've been trying to focus on places where people work in a family-friendly way. Thanks to you, we will now be watching where there are places where Hungarian workers are not specifically employed in a family-friendly way, whether they are civil servants, government officials or workers in any form. Therefore, LMP has also set up an award, the award for a non-family-friendly workplace, and in 2014 in this category, in the category of non-family-friendly jobs, you have the first place. [[Shows a cardboard card with the following inscription: 2014. Non-family-friendly workplace Award, 1st place by János Lázár.]] So I'm gonna go over there and give it to you.
u2014-12-01-196	Congresswoman, don't go there, or the Minister won't be able to answer. Then do it at the end, because otherwise, it in itself violates the rules of the house to hand over any banner and later. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett approaches the table of János Lázár and lays the cardboard. ? Applause from the benches of MSZP.]] The answer can be heard from Minister János Lázár in a minute.
u2014-12-01-197	What I don't know, Congresswoman, is how you want to represent people and how you want to keep your trust if you don't act fair and fair. It's very simple. Did you literally quote me? ? You should answer that question. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Can I answer now?]] If you're an honest man, you quote me literally. What did I say? Unfortunately, the Prime Minister's Office, which concerns me, of course, because I have two young children, not a family-friendly workplace, I cannot guarantee that to my colleagues. If this is a certificate of poverty, then it is a certificate of poverty, but this is the Hungarian reality. Apart from you, there are a lot of people in this country, my dear fellow Member, I have such voters, and I am sorry that you don't, who can't make a living from eight hours of work and have to work much more for their livelihood. Please respect them. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP. ? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-198	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: . Corruption-free helicopter procurement. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, please.
u2014-12-01-199	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Today, Viktor Orbán's political system is spectacularly deepened in the swamp of corruption. Under these scandalous circumstances, the Orbán government is preparing to conduct the largest military procurement of the decade, to purchase a whole state helicopter fleet. On the part of the MSZP, we have repeatedly stressed that the renewal of the helicopter fleet is now a matter of no longer long-suffering and extremely important, as it can depend on lives in disaster situations. In May last year, the Ministry of Defence presented a proposal containing a reasonable timetable for the representatives of the parliamentary parties. This concept was welcomed and supported by all parties. However, the promises made in May 2013 have become nothing, there is no evidence of a tender notice, there is no collateral for the procurement in the 2015 budget, and we are constantly getting an evasive response to our procurement questions. Otherwise, suspicious signs are increasing, as the wallet is always embarrassingly avoiding the mention of a public tender, and we cannot help but notice that one of the potential candidates is publishing whole-page advertisements in newspapers close to the government. At the time of the acquisition of the Gripens, Hungary has already experienced what it is like to have a hundred billion-dollar military procurement decided by Viktor Orbán and his narrow circle, by sweeping aside the professional preparatory work. After four years of scandals over the past few weeks, if public and open competition are excluded, no one will believe that it will not just be about filling the pockets of fidesz moneymen. So my questions, Minister: will there be a meaningful consultation with the parliamentary parties, given that this decision will have a fundamental impact on several government cycles? Will there be a public tender tender that provides real competition as quickly as possible and in order to achieve the most economical solution? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] When is the tender due, or is another Gripen case about to unfold? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-12-01-200	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Minister Csaba Hende. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-01-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, thank you for commending the concept presented in May 2013, which was not presented by HM to the parliamentary parties, but I was personally brave. Thank you for declaring this fair and well-founded. With regard to your immediate question, will you forgive the humorous approach? I think of the old Szekler joke. The wife of the Szekler in her 70s turns to her husband and says, "Say, father, do you still love me?" And the old man said, "I told you once at the wedding, and when there's a change, I'll let you know." So in this case, too, I can tell you that our idea remains that we will obtain the necessary transport helicopter fleet for Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Agency, at the best possible conditions, at the best possible price and with the most favourable technical content. As soon as there are any new developments that will bring this matter forward in substance, of course? And answer your question? There will be a substantive discussion, as there was about the idea. So there was also a discussion on the nature of the necessary rotating and rigid winged aircraft, the military specifications, as I said, I held them personally, and thank you for complimenting them afterwards. Of course, there are conditions for issuing a public tender. The first and most important condition [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that it is prohibited, not allowed, legally impossible to tender until the full financial coverage is available. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-01-202	Thank you very much. For a moment, Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2014-12-01-203	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope Minister doesn't want to make fun of this question. But as you recall, at the end of my question, I said I was looking forward to your reply. It's not that we're getting the screening that we've been doing on this issue. The respectable response to me means that it provides meaningful information to both the Hungarian society, professional organisations, the Hungarian Defence Forces and the Members of Parliament, regardless of their party position. If you think that the meaningful answer you have just given is spookyly similar to the fact that this spring you were able to inform the president of the Defence and Police Committee on the purchase of the three Mi-8 helicopters just one day before the arrival of the aircraft. In reply to my written question, he referred to this as meaningful and timely information. If we start from this, Minister, we can say that you are not taking your work seriously, which, in my opinion, is the case with the Minister of Defence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's quite disturbing.
u2014-12-01-204	Thank you very much. For a moment, Minister Csaba Hende has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-205	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I would like to remind you that the legislation did not require me to inform the Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee. Yet I did so in writing, and I did it before the machines arrived. The purchase of these machines was regular, reasonable, economical and absolutely necessary. So that's it. [[19.10]] As a general rule, I would just like to point out that I ask you, before you make any corruption charges, to wait until at least something happens in that case, not to throw yourself in the shadows, and not to do a shadow boxing. And whose ads an independent press organ accepts doesn't affect us at all, and let me tell you, I don't care. Under an independent medium, of course, press organs [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I understand that there is no ownership of the party foundation, such as the Free Press Foundation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-01-206	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 7:12 p.m., the immediate questioning hour is over, and we're moving on to questions. Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy a question, "What will happen to the employees of the National Labour Office? It's an address. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The truth about the case in which they've been keeping secrets for six months is coming to an end. Several times since the spring elections, several of my fellow Members have asked this question orally and in writing, but no precise and clear answers have been received. This office carries out employment policy, occupational protection, vocational training and adult training tasks, direct management of the professional work of several administrative bodies, such as employment centres, occupational safety and labour administrations, and coordinates the development of vocational and adult education systems. They have a bill on Parliament's table today, which makes it clear that the National Labour Office will be liquidated. During the last six months, the people who worked there were obviously insecurity. The institutional headcount there is 445 people, but it works in EU projects around 500-550 people, so I can tell you that about a thousand people and their family are affected by the issue I'm talking about, not to mention 58 people who have been transferred to the Ministry of Interior to manage public employment programmes. Over the past six months, these workers have not known what was happening to them, you have kept them in a state of uncertainty, and it has now come to light that their jobs have ceased. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State where the professional work in the Office will be transferred, which central administrative units will take over their duties, which will cease. Where appropriate, who and in what areas will be the professional management of labour centres, occupational safety and labour administrations, what will be the fate of nearly a thousand workers, how many people and in which areas will their job be lost within weeks? Have there been prior consultations with interest organisations protecting the interests of workers regarding the termination of the office? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-209	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The transformation of the labour market institutional system is necessary in order to create as many safe, non-health-threatening jobs as possible in the dynamic economy as possible and to make public employment more efficient. In order to achieve the government's employment objectives, an institutional framework is needed which primarily supports the position in the competitive sphere. On the one hand, it ensures the efficient use of incentives for job creation and employment and, on the other hand, it has a detailed and continuous updated database that includes, in addition to the precise labour needs of employers, the competences of job seekers. Therefore, the State Reform II. under a restructuring programme, the tasks and institutions of the National Labour Office will be reorganised to ensure a more efficient and cost-effective performance of tasks. This means that a significant part of the tasks and powers thus far entrusted by the Office will continue, but will only be provided with a different organisational structure. Work security and employment surveillance functions remain, and the professional department to be set up in the NGM will take over them. Labour placement activities are transferred to district offices. There's nothing new about that because they've been meeting clients there. Labour centres remain organisationally at county government offices. The area of vocational training and adult training will be separated from the NMH, and its main task will be to maintain vocational training institutions. The entire activities related to public employment will be transferred to the Ministry of Interior. Of course, the implementation of EU programmes concerning the Office will continue as stipulated in the Treaties. As the Member has seen from the foregoing, the performance of the tasks will continue to be ensured, which will require well-trained and experienced colleagues in the new organisational framework. Details, including staff issues [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] relevant decisions are currently being taken, and we will, of course, inform the stakeholders on time. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-01-210	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is it intentional to smother oncological care? Let the machines go. It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. My question is particularly interesting and topical from the point of view that the month of October was the month of the movement called attention to female cancers by the pink ribbon, and the month of November was the month of the 'Grow mustache to save a man! He drew attention to male prostate cancer, so perhaps it is appropriate to immediately sum up the needs of Hungarian oncological benefits at the beginning of December. Unfortunately, it is well known that we Hungarians are losing in cancer, because the number of cancer deaths per 100,000 is at the top of the world for both men and women, because of lung cancer, mortality in our country is nearly twice the EU average. The fact that health care as a whole, including cancer, is affected by the same supply factors and the same challenges is fully known. The first is the lack of resources, which is limited in terms of the capacity to reduce access, commonly known as TVK, which in this case restricts the available diagnostic and therapeutic tools, so to speak, the capacity that machinery and heavy-duty personnel could still provide. Perhaps, even before the well-known Secretary of State, the conference held in the last few days has not been put to work by accident to allow the machines to work, i.e. to increase the limit so that as many as possible can be involved in intervention and care. In addition to increasing capacity, of course, there is also a need for new equipment procurement, as the fact that nearly 50 such devices are needed in Hungary is also stated by the WHO, so we should increase the number of machines by 20%, but, as I said, it is also essential to increase or perhaps even partially abolish TVK. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether they finally feel the importance of raising the capacity limit for oncological radiation, treatments and whether they will allow patients to recover in the future. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Those machines should go beyond the current level. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you have said, everyone in Hungary is obviously aware of this, that the disease burden of hospitals is largely cancerous, and in many cases this can lead to death. As you have said, lung cancer is of an outstanding size; when we vote here in Parliament on precisely the laws on smoking control, you can also express by your votes that you agree with this prevention of the government. Therefore, the government considers both primary and secondary prevention to be particularly important for oncological care. In the framework of primary prevention, we highlight the reduction of smoking, the consumption of nutritionally undesirable foods, and in the context of secondary prevention, mention should be given to the cervix screening programme carried out by women's nurses and the vaccine against HPV, which we have talked about several times here with the Member and the colon screening programme. In Hungary, clinical oncology outpatient care is provided by 94 institutions, care is provided by 88 institutions, while inpatient care is provided by 30 institutions, radiotherapy and oncoradiology are available in 12 centres. In 2013, OEP paid some HUF 160 billion out of the Health Insurance Fund's expenditure in kind for various costs related to cancer. In 2013 this therapeutic area was around 18 percent of the total use of medicinal products in outpatient care, and the insurance company provided about 42 percent of the equity subsidies to medicines used in oncology, worth approximately HUF 65 billion. The Hungarian cancer patients are provided with the most modern medicines, it can be said that the Hungarian support system is one of the most complex in the international context, so it gives patients the opportunity to meet the various funding needs with the best interests in mind. If I look at the grants, they received HUF 773 million from the end-of-year grants for the CT and MR services of oncology patients, HUF 5.4 billion from the National Institute of Oncology, the Uzsoki Street Hospital 1.3 billion, the Csolnoky Ferenc Hospital in Veszprém County, HUF 2.3 billion, the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 1.6 billion forints, and I could continue to ask who received 10 billion for such treatments. Thank you very much. [[19.20]]
u2014-12-01-214	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2014-12-01-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the seventh year, wages in the public sector have not increased. The government has also broken its promise to raise the teacher's wages. It was first broken when the original promise was fulfilled only in 4 years: this is how teachers got the current detail again in September this year. That's not what they promised. For the second time, it has been broken that teachers' salaries will be ripped away from the minimum wage according to the amendment hidden in next year's budget. This will eliminate the automatic wage increase. That's not what they promised. The minimum wage, albeit slightly, may increase next year, but not the salary base. It seems that Fidesz is also choosing a solution for socialist governments. Teachers remember well how the 2002 wage increase was inflected over a few years. The LMP also does not ignore the fact that the wages of staff directly assisting education have not increased since 2008 and that we can even talk about further loss of real value in respect of cafeteria withdrawals. Nurses, pedagogical assistants, school secretaries, administrators? Do you mind if I tell you more? His salary won't increase for the seventh year next year. They can't even afford a minimum of living, they can't support their families. For the hundredth time, why aren't they important, when do they get a raise? The LMP focuses on education and knowledge. In the medium term, we would increase education resources by one and a half times. We would like to give priority to the pay of teachers and their helpers. We want to spend a lot more on education. We believe that Hungary's future is the knowledge society. Dear Minister, Why were the teachers and the staff helping them deceived? Why are you taking the teacher's allowance fund away from the minimum wage? When do teachers raise their wages? Thank you for the floor.
u2014-12-01-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, please.
u2014-12-01-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This topic has come up for many times, and you are repeating the same political hoaxes for many times, and we are rebutting the allegations that you are making, honourable Member. I think a lot of sectors would trade with teachers if we look at the policy of the past few years. Obviously, law enforcement workers would also have liked to have increased their salary by a third. Obviously, the medical staff, although on average, increased by 23 percent the salary of 95 thousand people...? But it was bigger than what happened with the teachers. Obviously, we were able to give social workers a 7-12 percent wage increase on 1 January this year, but this is far from what teachers received. Obviously, we can go by sector in the policy of wage increases, but I would like to say, Mr honourable Member, that there has not been a wage increase for teachers in recent years, it is quite a brave statement from you, as all teachers are already taking home about one third more, since on 1 September 2013,.14 and next year, 1 September 2015. We do not make teachers' wages, but raise them, honourable Member. On average, the wages of teachers will increase by 3.4 percent, while the inflation rate will increase by 1.8 percent only next year. The wages of teachers who have surrendered their portfolio are even higher, and the teacher II. They may be moved to category 1. They can take about 30,000 forints more home next year. And those who have gained a master's degree, so they will contribute to a higher level of quality assurance in schools, they can expect a 35 percent salary surplus in the following year. And as you know, honourable Member, next year's budget includes HUF 38 billion directly to raise the wages of teachers. This will be the surplus that teachers can take home. As regards the people you were referring to at the end, in educational institutions [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] For the wages of helping workers, they will have access to the pedagogical career from 1 September 2015. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Péter Ágh wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office what future does the government intend for the castles of Vép and Vassurány? It's an address. Congressman Peter Agh has the floor, please.
u2014-12-01-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In terms of the number of castles, Vas County is one of our richest regions. Among these are buildings that have been reborn in the right form, but there are still many that we still need to do to care and exploit. It is good that the government is aware of this responsibility and wants to take action to preserve our common heritage. This is reflected in the recent national castle program published in the Hungarian Gazette, in which two castles can be found in connection with my constituency: the Erdődy Castle in Vép and the Schilson Castle in Vassurány are proud of the settlements where they are located, but they are proud of the Vas county, as Hungary can be proud of them. That is why we look to the future with a worrying look at what awaits the 21st century. In the 20th century, these properties, since XX. In the century, they had the fate of extinction. However, we hope that this will no longer continue, and if it is a long way to rebirth, it will eventually come to pass. Dear Secretary of State, Based on all this, I ask what future awaits the castles of Vép and Vassurány. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is given by Secretary of State L. Simon László. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-221	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. He outlined exactly the current situation; after a long decade of slimming and destruction, the government wants to save the very important section of the Hungarian monument, the rural castles, the rural castles with the highest values. That is why, at his meeting two weeks ago, he adopted the government decision to launch the national castle programme. As part of this, the protection and worthy exploitation of castles of outstanding value will take place in the coming years. The implementation of this castle program is the Forster Gyula National Heritage and Property Management Centre, which provides for the development, implementation, coordination of cultural heritage-based projects and professional advisory and expert activities that are justified in the area of heritage conservation. Following the adoption of this national castle programme, we must prepare the detailed concept and present it to the government for each property by 31 March 2015, together with the full funding structure. But what I can tell you is that our plans are to spend approximately HUF 30 billion on the renovation of the properties indicated in the government decision from EU funds, and that over HUF 9 billion will be the share and national resource that we use for the same purpose. The castles in Vép and Vassurány, located in the electoral district of the Member, are considered to be of high value for national culture, so they have also been included in the castle programme. They will also have a concept of exploitation by 31 March, which will, of course, involve the leaders of the municipalities concerned and the representative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I ask for the support of the Member and the acceptance of my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What can we expect from Paks? It's an address. Congresswoman Anita Beringes has the floor, please.
u2014-12-01-223	Thank you very much for the floor. I regret that the Minister is unable to attend, so I ask the question to Mr Aradsk State Secretary; please remove our doubts. Your minister, Miklós Seszták, visited us in the municipal campaign and said that Paks is not where he should be today. He's been living the weekdays of a gray town. Paks must be placed in the right position, but not only with EU funds, but also with dedicated resources to sustain the nuclear power plant's capacity. To do so, it is very important that the government and the municipality have a good relationship. Paks does not exist without the government's support, and the current Hungarian government needs Paks. The development of the city requires government support and government leadership as well as Fidesz municipality. As a result of the municipal elections, the pro-government county leadership was found, but Paks' town's population chose a professional mayor who does not belong to the majority of the government; a decent, conservative expert, former CEO of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. [[19.30]] The city has chosen professionalism over party politics. We all have to be able to accept that. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was the same in spring.]] In the 2015 central budget, HUF 240 million was earmarked for the renewal of the Paks football stadium. On the other hand, according to press reports, MVM will no longer support the football club in Paks, and our football team will lose hundreds of millions. I am asking you, Mr. Secretary of State, as one of the heads of the Ministry for State Property: what can Paks expect? He'll have a nice new stadium, but the MVM won't give his name or his money to the football team? Please disband our bad feeling: it is not the city's development and support that depends on the color of the mayor or the majority. And a current question, as a deckie, I have two questions today: why are they encrypting everything about the maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? Even business contracts? and why are you being removed from public procurement? We need transparency and professionalism, not this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which you have just submitted.
u2014-12-01-224	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be heard from the Secretary of State, András Aradszki. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-225	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian Electric Works Group and the Paks Football Club, an entity that is an independent company in accordance with the current legislation, I think and am sure that on a market basis MVM has decided to support and sponsor the cutting-edge football in Paks. This is also important because there must be purely business considerations behind this. The authorised bodies of the company shall decide on sponsorship aid independently on the basis of business considerations. The second half of your question and the content of what will happen to Paks in the coming decades, I have to say that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is the largest employer in the region, indirectly ensuring the livelihood of tens of thousands of people. In the county, the average gross income is HUF 215 thousand, mainly due to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which is higher than that of the South-Transdanubian region. The construction of the power plant has made Paks a country's most dynamically developing settlement. There were branches of services that seemed unimaginable earlier. Is it necessary to extend the lifetime of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to maintain this condition? Did that happen? and, after the extension, it is necessary for the Paks capacity to be maintained for a longer period of time, so it is also necessary to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant for a further Paks vision. The government stands by maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, as opposed to you, who is responsible for increasing Paks' capacity [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It did not support its decision to maintain capacity in the parliamentary debate. [[Anita Herring: Lies! That's a lie!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: å Why do some higher education institutions think that they can do everything they can with students? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas, please.
u2014-12-01-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Once again, I would like to bring a problem for young people to the House, because Jobbik finds it unacceptable that there are higher education institutions that make the allocation of the rightful benefits to their students by delays of several weeks or even months. We are aware, of course, that the allocation of scholarships is an institutional competence, but as maintainers, they must have known about this recurring problem, which, by the way, they should have solved a long time ago. It is not an individual case, but every year it is with serious delays that the university refers only to scholarships or social support for its students. Of course, every time they find a reason to explain the delay, and on their part, the case is closed. In contrast, students must, of course, comply precisely with the obligations imposed on them by day in order to avoid additional and late fees. Unfortunately, in many cases, these benefits are their only income, and they have to make a living of these small amounts every month. They must pay, among other things, dormitory fees, rent, and buy pepper-priced textbooks, rents and food. Higher education institutions make them uncomfortable with weeks of delays. We can keep hearing that students have not only rights, but also obligations, but I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: do not the institutions have an obligation to pay student allowances in time? If the semester starts in September, the amount should appear in the student accounts by mid-October at the latest. A number of examples could be set, indicating the general nature of the problem. The last time we heard about Corvinus University in Budapest was that even in the third week of November, students did not receive the rightful September scholarships on the basis of a regulation amendment. And, of course, there's no consequence here. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, I ask what the government intends to do to prevent higher education institutions from embarrassing thousands of young people with late references to the benefits they receive. I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2014-12-01-228	Mr. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-12-01-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What you're saying is, if a university gets those subsidies from the state on time? Is it paid by the Treasury? which should be passed on by students and not transferred, this is obviously unacceptable. In each case, when this occurs or occurs, the Ministry of Human Resources, as the Ministry of Higher Education, immediately expects an explanation from these institutions, as the Hungarian Treasury has made a precise reference to the amounts from which universities could have paid these allowances in each case. At the same time, in other speeches, you are very much defending academic autonomy so that the state does not interfere with the affairs of universities. Do we think there's a part of these cases? Exactly the legality, the compliance,? where there is a need for state presence. And what about your speech now? In hindsight, though, but? There could be a very good reason within the Jobbik faction if they change their position and you support the nomination of Chancellors. You said earlier that this was an intervention for the autonomy of universities, and now you're demanding a man who would be at the university and take action for legality and proper management. We took this step: did you see in the news that the Chancellors were appointed, and that's exactly what you're going to do? Among other things, among other things? To monitor these different processes of farming and to provide students with the allowances they receive in good time. Because we also believe that these must be transferred to students in time, and that the university cannot properly rely on any kind of exculpation that does not send students the scholarships and allowances they receive. I trust that if you see the chancellors' activities like this, then the Jobbik faction will discover what you didn't realize earlier that Chancellors are needed at universities, as they will oversee farming at universities and, in many cases, also respect legality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. ? Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-01-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:.Hungary of the countryside wants to live, but what about the sidelines? Are they slowly bleeding out the wing lines? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, László Földi KDNP was the last to hear about the bright future of the EU's money for renewable rail lines in a State Secretary's response to my fellow Member's interpellation. The IKOP and the European Network Finance Facility will be able to spend up to 1200 billion forints on railways. This is fine, we support it, we welcome it, of course, on the self-evident terms that during large investments: 1. through outsourcing, the execution should not become an extra-profit milk cow for companies with an opaque background; 2. there should not be a cartel for swimming pool luxury villas; 3. so-called harmonies managers with 20 percent corruption funds should be far removed from all such investments; 4. investments for the development of the track and the renewal of the vehicle park should be accompanied by a revival of the domestic production capacity. What we have further questions about, however, is the matter of wing lines that are vital for the Hungarian countryside. The future of regional sidelines, representing 40 percent of the total network of 7700 kilometres, does not seem to be so rosy. I ask the honourable responder, how do we understand the concept of the national transport strategy that defined the main lines at 6,000 kilometres and? Is that what I'm saying? the length of competitive sidelines to be preserved. What about the remaining 1,700 kilometers? What is the amount of money devoted to renovating the 3,000 kilometers of sidelines? How many kilometers of these will be renewed in 2015? How long will the sub-sectorial division of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, called railway simplification, continue? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[19.40]]
u2014-12-01-232	Thank you very much. The answer is given by Secretary of State László Tasó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-233	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Congressman, At first, I would like to thank you for your question, although there were some unfriendly elements in it, but regardless, I understand. It is clear that he wanted to express and express his concern for the future of the Hungarian railway. I also thank you for the opportunity to respond because it is possible to confirm that the Hungarian Government is committed to the issue of Hungarian rail development. So so far, it has been obvious, I think, in recent years, that we have been focusing on rail development in recent years and in future plans, as far as our options are concerned. But let me draw your attention to the fact that from 2010 onwards, after the 800-mile extension network closed before 2010, more precisely in 2008, we have been able to restore a 385-mile section of these closed networks, and we are now looking at the possibility of having to do it elsewhere, whether it is technically justified or necessary. It should be added that in the coming years there may be more than HUF 1200 billion to be spent on rail development, but we must also immediately add that they generally support, let us say, only parts of the trans-European transport network by 90%. So this is a fact and it is true that we need to adapt to the sources of the budget, and when we need to touch the side networks, we can only move and turn here for the first time, but we are still trying to get EU funds to help with this work. But it is not necessary to talk about the fact that if you look at the Hungarian Gazette published last Wednesday, there is the 16 240th page of the 1696 Government Decree, in which it is clearly drawn and written that we will develop the railways of South Hungary, East Hungary, North Hungary among others, and I think that we will improve competitiveness both at once and everywhere. So thank you very much for your question, we have indeed managed to say that we are in favour of the Hungarian railway. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-234	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions. We will now continue our work in debate. Dear Parliament, The discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the further development of the National Environmental Information System follows. In the absence of a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, the proposal was not discussed by the Legislative Committee. The submission was made in T/1965. Number 2 is available to all of them on the network. Report by the Committee on Sustainable Development as a designated committee on a detailed discussion T/1965/5. was given to them. I'll ask if any of the authors would like to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh wishes to speak. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total time frame of 10 minutes for speaking in the debate and presenting any closing words. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-01-235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not gonna live with the 10 minutes. Three amendments were tabled to the bill, all tabled by President Sallai R. Benedek, Chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development. Neither the committee nor the rapporteur supported these amendments. The first proposal was to include data generated by research activities using public funds in the national environment and information system. I would like to emphasise here that the development of OKIR was for a specific purpose, with the help of a European Union proposal, which does not include all kinds of development and research data in general. Of course, the monitoring results of the so-called biotical data processing data collected by public tenders and coordinated research projects by FM are included in the nature conservation information system. Research documentation on changes in wildlife, population dynamics and health check of protected natural areas is currently not limited. The second proposal was for everyone to have a right [[Coming into the room to Sallai R. Benedek:]] ? I'm gonna tell you? access to data of general interest free of charge. I would like to note here that this right, i.e. public interest data, can be understood by everyone, on the one hand, by the 1995 LIII on the general rules for protecting the environment. It is also included in law, but the procedure for obtaining data of general interest does not belong to this law, but to the 2011 CXII. in law, the provisions relating to costs are governed by this so-called information law. This, by the way, states that for the production of a copy, the public body may set up reimbursements. I think that is understandable, because, of course, other costs are involved in making 2-3 pages of copies or if you need a forklift for the data set. The third proposal concerns the Environmental Impact Assessment Procedure, which was also not supported by either the majority of the committee or the author, since the detailed rules in this regard are not contained in the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment, but in the relevant Government Decree. It describes the options for the publication of the environmental impact assessment by electronic means, so it should also be published today, which is done on the official website of the supervisory board. However, it is also regulated that it is necessary to provide access to printed copies, and this can also be done to the notary of the location of the investment. Usually, if the decision is taken, the decision to close the impact assessment procedure, then the entire text of the municipalities will be published publicly, in practice on their website. To sum up, the rapporteur did not support any of the amendments and the majority of the Committee on Sustainable Development did the same. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-236	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate you will have about five minutes to say the closing word. Dear Parliament, The Committee on Sustainable Development did not wish to present a rapporteur, and the minority opinion expressed in the Committee is presented by our fellow Member, Mr Benedek, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
u2014-12-01-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I have been instructed that, in accordance with the meaning of the house rules, I can only literally say the same thing as that expressed at the committee meeting, so I would like to read out with your permission that I should not be against the house rules. The main objective of the transformation of the national environmental information system is to eliminate the current, predominantly paper-based data transmissions and to provide them electronically in the future. According to Article 21 of the Fundamental Law, Hungary recognises and enforces everyone's right to a healthy environment, with which this bill is not, in our opinion, fully in line. The need for access to environmental information and the extension of its possibilities is a welcome direction, which the LMP is also pleased with, so it is again a piece of legislation with which our party can fully agree, but, in terms of its means, it disputes the effectiveness and feasibility of its implementation. With the aim of providing an IT solution to enable environmental users and interested parties to access relevant environmental information, the LMP fully agrees, of course, because this is one of the basic infrastructure conditions for enforcing the fundamental right to a healthy environment. [[19.50]] However, this information system, in its present form, does not meet the basic requirements for use. At the same time, we still do not see any assurance that the range of public data will be much more extensive in the future than before. The availability of data on protected areas or water is incomplete, and the continuous transformation of the official system is questionable due to the continuity of the data series and the incomparability of the data. Is it possible that Politics supports an environmental information system that would include the entire forest landscape database? currently forestry plant plans are considered to be a significant service secret and are not fully accessible to land users? and could be organised, since it is all information available to public authorities and not accessible to citizens and civilians. So the data controllers are under the info law? Is that what the Secretary of State said? do not see the availability of this information insured. Possibly Other Politics wants to ensure that environmental information that is generated from public sources and is not available at the moment will all become available in the future. We see a contradiction in the fact that, while the government is supposed to have a strong interest in accessing environmental information, we have to enforce these expectations in every case, whether it is Paks or any other development. We have recently gained a great deal of experience in this regard. The practice clearly indicates that when the trees of Kossuth Square were exterminated, the public groups concerned received the relevant administrative decision weeks after the increase in the legal force of the tree cutting permit and the felling of the trees, so that they could not exercise the right of appeal. There is no intention to set up decisions now. Thus, the decisions made by the public authority in its provision will not be known after that, nor will citizens have access to them. Therefore, they must regularly refer the government and the authority to the court in order to obtain information. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-238	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. First, I would like to address the written representative, Mrs Anita Heringes, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-01-239	Thank you for the floor. As is known, the primary task of the national environmental information system is to collect, process, support the register and provide the relevant users with the necessary information and make them fully public. From this point of view, it is to be welcomed that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. Taking into account the sustainability and environmental aspects of the 20th century, the proposal establishes the electronic basis for the provision of information to environmental users, i.e. replacing the current, predominantly paper-based reporting with the customer-gate reporting system. At the same time, we trust that this is not the last step, and that the simplification of the environmental specialist systems that make up all the systems will follow this phase, because in many cases the problem is due to the complexity of the creative systems. We particularly welcome the implementation of the proposal of the wish of professional organisations, i.e. the legal institution of professional consultation with the newly established Environmental Authority. We support the proposal because of simplification, the transition to electronic administration and the establishment of an institution for professional consultation. At the same time, it is indicated that we agree with this type of thinking and that we are taking absolute action against all government intentions that we do not need to take seriously the protection of our environment. We will also be more papa than the Pope on this issue, because the protection of our natural environment is also a priority for us as opposed to the government. We cannot ask ourselves the question raised at the Ministry of Agriculture's stock meeting, namely that there are economic interests that are more important than that. Thank you.
u2014-12-01-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that a two-minute speech is not possible, but it is possible to make a proper speech by pressing a button. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I have just said the official opinion of the minority, which I have also expressed in the committee, and now very briefly with my own experience and opinion, let me add to this. Technically, the government is a XXI. It would take the course of the 100th century by allowing online tools to access the backgrounds of each official case, impact assessments, Natura 2000 impact assessments and decisions, thereby enabling all landscape users, land users and environmental users who work on a daily basis to learn about them. There would be a way for them to be able to take part in Community decisions in a case which is unfavourable, possibly environmentally harmful, and which is detrimental to the interests of neighbours and users of land. This system we're talking about is a partially functioning system. This was done earlier, although it doesn't work. First, it was spent 1 billion forints on public money, then another 2 billion, and to date, this is not a transparent and operational system. There are now virtually tender opportunities for redevelopment, which, in our opinion, does not guarantee that this is now a useful and good system. We see the intention of the government to use IT tools in many ways, but in many cases these efforts can only be fulfilled if there are efforts to implement international obligations. We have had the opportunity to exchange ideas earlier in the general debate on the obligations to implement the Aarhus Convention, and I have also said that as long as it is not possible to see the entire process consistently during an environmental and nature conservation authorisation procedure, we cannot talk about insight. As long as environmental information is limited to the tasks and powers of the Green Authority, and only this responsibility is retained by the legislation and does not include information related to other landscape use, to which I have already referred in the minority opinion? such as forestry land use or even general land use? Until then, it won't be complete. This system could be operational if we were fully adapted to ensure that all citizens have access to all needs. CHAPTER XXI It is only possible to build democracy in the first century if we strive to involve the community in our decisions, and the only way to do so is to ensure that all information is available to the public and to the relevant landscape users, land users and environmental users. For all these reasons, did we want to expand all these frameworks? Agreeing with the government's direction, but not being sufficient and inefficient? So, in agreement with the goals, in agreement with the government's efforts, we would have liked to have a much more detailed, complete and complete regulation if regulation had been adopted, if we had already touched it. To this end, I tabled the amendments, which were unfortunately rejected by the Committee. I hope that in the next period, in the near future, it will be possible to expand access to environmental information if not with this instrument, but by other means. At the same time, let me say, as a man who comes from the green movement with a past of 20 years, and I spent a lot of lawsuits to access environmental information, then I came to the political sector, and my career began with the fact that I could not access the environmental impact assessments of Paks in the same way, and in the same way I could only have access to it through litigation, that the applicability of these rules was not suitable for access to environmental information. If the legislator? and I think that the Hungarian Government meant the fundamental rights enshrined in the Fundamental Law to a healthy environment? it maintains this and means it seriously, to do so, we need to create more and wider opportunities for society, and all the information that comes from public money must be made available. This is the view that we made the amendments and asked the government to accept them, which, unfortunately, was not welcome. Nevertheless, we are obviously pleased that this direction has been established, although it could have been better and more effective. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-242	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members if there is still a speaker. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed and I will give the chair to Vice-President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-12-01-243	I was following what happened on the screen. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt V. Németh.
u2014-12-01-244	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the agenda: there is now a debate on the Commission report, in which I would not repeat the arguments that we have already put forward on the rejection of Mr Sallai R. Benedek's proposals, but only a few amendments. [[20.00]] I think it is important to say that this development is complete. There aren't two billion and two billion. The last two billion were years ago, and we don't take any responsibility for that. A new environment information system is now under way from 1 January, where, of course, we had to take stock of what the development might be. Thus, in cases that were not cost-effective, for example, we did not develop separate surfaces for car breakers, because there is so little data on paper that did not require this. However, as I said in the introductions, we want to extend it to a number of research areas. For example, processed monitoring results collected by public tenders and coordinated research projects will be included in the system. It gives me the opportunity to repeat again, as has been said in the general debate, that supervisory decisions will be made public, so they will be added to the system. And so I am given the opportunity to comment on the thoughts of Anita Heringes at the Ministry's private staff meeting, because it is better to speak these thoughts in person than to be heard metaphorically. Well, I'm going to do this job, or I'm going to do it with the greatest humility in the scientific world; in the widest cooperation with civil society organisations, of course, taking into account the inability that civil society organisations are used to express. We could listen to their expectations from morning to night, we could be ashamed of ourselves from morning to night, and, most likely, if they were in our place, they would make the same decisions. Nevertheless, it is necessary to cooperate with green organisations, because of my rurality, with a particular sensitivity to nature, but? Here comes a big but? the rationality of the technical intellectuals. The reason I wish to say this is because we must not be more pope than the Pope means nothing less than that we do not need to complete European Union legislation. There is no need to enforce unwritten regulations, for example in Natura 2000 areas. The rules of procedure which are regulated by EU legislation and transposed into Hungarian law must be respected. And if we do, no one uses nature protection as a bogeyman. These were my words. And there's no reason for me to back out of that position. I hope you understand, too, that these are not necessarily unfulfilled, but not necessarily ideas that put nature and environmental protection in the background. I will then ask my fellow Members to support the bill amending certain laws in the context of the further development of the national environmental information system. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-245	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amending act. The submission was made in T/1706. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed discussion T/1706/8. and the report by the Committee on Sustainable Development as a committee on the subject of the debate on the subject of a detailed debate on T/1706/9. was given to them. Summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1706/11. and the summary report is T/1706/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, The debate may be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 27 November 2014, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1993 XLVIII on mining. Act CXXIX of 2007 on the protection of agricultural land. T/1706. Bill No. 1. The aim of the proposal is to improve the economic and social position of the mining and energy industries based on it in the light of current and expected technical, environmental and economic trends, and to do so in a way that rational and sustainable management of state-owned mineral resources serves the common interests of both society and the economy and the state. During the committee meeting, a decision was taken on the proposal for an amendment to the Economic Commission, which was already proposed by the Committee for the sake of uniform application of the law. Our committee supported this motion with 25 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. In addition to the resolution on the amendment proposal, the Legislative Committee also expressed its intention to make further technical amendments. This amendment was supported by 25 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. The Committee supported the summarised amendment and the summary report with 25 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-247	Thank you, Congressman. I'm gonna ask you if there's anyone who wants to give you a minority opinion. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I'm going to ask if any of the authors would like to speak now. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much. Then it is time for the written speakers to come. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2014-12-01-248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In writing, the application was necessary to convey the minority opinion, only because I could not have said it in three minutes, and according to the rules of the house, I cannot deviate from what was set out in the committee, so I have the opportunity to deviate. I would therefore like to present part of the minority opinion. What we thought was particularly worrying and particularly problematic is the dissemination of two technologies. One of them is clearly the first-level and primary authority procedure of the mining authority in the shale gas extraction permit procedure. Obviously, there was a precedent in Hungary for the green authority's stopping of shale gas research. In the specific case, a Canadian company was involved, and the company that has worked for shale gas research in Hungary had to stop the research after the territorially competent environmental authority forbade the use of hydraulic fracturing technology. The Lower Tisza Environmental, Nature and Water Inspectorate argued that the injected water contains 2% of toxic, allergenic, mutagenic, carcinogenic, environmental harmful substances, such as biocidal substances. In our view, one of the reasons for the amendment of the legislation was to take the lead in such critical environmental authority positions in the main proceedings and, therefore, to transfer them to the mining authority. This is not acceptable, since it is a technology that has no decades of experience, has no decades of history, and the obligations of the sixth and seventh environmental programmes of the European Union concerning prevention and the precautionary principle would apply to Hungary; this is clearly about the fact that if there is no scientific evidence of a lack of negative impact, a negative impact should be assumed in the authorisation. [[20.10]] At the moment, we are fully concerned about this, and the environmental inspectorate will only be involved as a administrative authority, which is very difficult for us to accept. The recent amendment to the Mining Act involves the division of authority licensing powers by strengthening the influence of the mining authority at the expense of a more critical green authority with shale gas. The regulatory process behind the amendment of the law is not exactly seen, it is not possible to know how the amendment will affect the rights and powers of the environmental authority, the authorisation of shale gas drilling. At the same time, the way the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is expanded leaves no doubt that different economic lobbyings are more important to the government than environmental considerations, and this gives us the concern that, in the current political situation, the elimination of the green authority as a basic authority is of concern from an environmental security point of view. Basically, our committee is the house rule 44. It examined the extent to which the legislation is contrary to the Fundamental Law and, in our opinion, risks to the right to health and a healthy environment under the Fundamental Law. The other technology, which caused us to have concerns, is legislation 27 and 28. The text of the amendment, which I submitted, should have been taken out and discussed with regard to fracturing, in the light of the following justification: before giving way to the development of CO2 capture and storage in Hungary by research, it would be necessary to assess, in a professional and social debate, whether it is necessary to commit to this development for the population and industry, in part taking resources away from an economic shift based on energy-efficient clean energy. If the research permits are issued, then the production permit is not expected to be blocked by the mining authority. Overall, all these technologies pose environmental risks, have a very high energy demand, and are not at all technologies in which international experience would confirm that they should be allowed without further delay. In particular, in the case of carbon capture and storage, where appropriate, it is now apparent that this would run up to 2020-30, and that the migration obligations to a low-emission economy should be implemented by the time the EU's obligations are met, so by the time this is started, it will be considered a technology to be discarded. We would have asked for these aspects to be excluded from the legislation and for the Green Authority to act as a basic authority; unfortunately, this was not supported by the committee, my amendments were rejected, so unfortunately, our party will not be able to support the vote in favour of this legislation. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-249	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz, Fidesz.
u2014-12-01-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the previous debate on the legislative proposal before us, it was a pleasure for me that all the factions were clearly concerned about the future of domestic mining, together worried about the fact that the work on mineral resources, including coal mining, had been found alive and burningly in the last cycle. In its previous cycle, this government has set the goal of evaluating, revaluing and exploiting domestic mineral assets as soon as possible, while also taking care of environmental sustainability and the existing legislation. This amendment is linked to this, as it regulates the reduction of the administrative burden on mining, creating legislative coherence that was not in the existing legislation, helping to establish rules on extraction in areas other than mining companies, narrowing down and reducing the shortcomings of the authorisation process, and helping to introduce mineral extraction regulations into the Mining Act, which have so far been out of the scope of the law. I believe that this law is important for us to be able to make use of domestic mining and domestic mineral assets in the future in accordance with the way the interests of the national economy require it. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács, MSZP.
u2014-12-01-252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I was happy to hear what the people before me said that we were worried together. I am also pleased to hear that the Legislative Committee has set itself the objective of redefining the social and economic situation of mining and that it should once again be a very important place for this sector in the national economy and that there is a common social and economic interest. I am pleased to hear this at least in this debate, because it does not appear in the law. This law is, after all, a form without content, which is not fit to re-invigorate and dynamic the heavy industry in Hungary with GDP growth and job creation, whose culture, culture and history are still ahead of us, and not far from being able to remember them. I'm glad to hear that, but it would be good if it were reflected in the intention of the legislator. The legislator, I believe, has done a good industrial work, because the professional, sectoral advocacy organisations have gathered all his comments and put them in the law. I believe that this has overcome technical obstacles and administrative obstacles of a lesser or greater nature, and that, if I have understood my fellow Member Horváth correctly, that this may even be consolidated? Which is actually good, because it's the only law we've ever had in the '93s that we've been absolving and absolving, but we haven't been able to modify it in a single structure yet? , then it can be even easier, but it's still just the shape. It's still just the form, it's still not about how it gets extracted, how production starts, who will produce, who will produce, where we will sell what we produce from underground. We said at the time in the debate what is more necessary or necessary for this. There is a need for stable and predictable, transparent economic and legal conditions; proactive, publicly-beneficiated and supported R &amp; D activities; the development of simplified and secure mine opening, official licensing; clear, fast, equally valid and economically feasible environmental standards; the development and launch of mining training; and the development of conditions for regional mining clusters. This is what does not come back from this, and I believe that during the campaign, especially for us who live in mining areas, we have heard a lot about the content in this. Was there such a government decision, including Baranya, in which the government believed that the Hungarian mineral wealth should be assessed, that it should be proposed to extract it, to repel the legal environment and to transform the legal environment? This is partly, I think, quite well this time, because professional organisations have also been very helpful to the government? and that training should be launched. But we have the experience behind us, and now I'm going to quote our Speaker, that unfortunately our illusions are now quite severed by our experience. We can see that they're starting a little bit of a campaign, right in the finale of the municipal campaign. Twelve heavy machinery managers will be trained in the town of Komló, not all of them will be heavy machinery operators, but there will be one of them who will also be a maintenance worker; they will not be able to go down to a underground mine. And now, when we put faith in him? What did the Legislative Committee say? That we will give back the economic and social role of this kind of heavy industry and this type of profession, we will close the last Hungarian underground coal mine in Márkushegy in about 30 days. Here, let me reflect for a moment on what the Secretary of State said in the debate. He told me, as an argument, when I brought up what happens to places where there is a monoculture built on a large industry, and all kinds of service industry, satellite companies around the mine, provided jobs for the inhabitants of the city, you told me that Russian girl is not Komlo. That's right, it's not even his name, it's a completely different name. If they are further ahead in terms of industrial restructuring, but believe me, we are far ahead in terms of experience. [[20.20]] In 1999 and 2000, I think that we hop people listened to these arguments in the same way: will it be all right? That's what they told us. We'll be able to solve everything, industrial restructuring, selling the mine assets, retraining the miners, or retraining them, and giving them a decent living. Now, looking back 14 to 15 years after that, I think that Russian girl can still be a Komlo. You still have the opportunity to change that. I do not think it is a good argument, as Mr Secretary of State said to me in the debate, that it is not possible to support certain undertakings, such as mining companies, in a competitive manner that is not in line with EU competition rules. That's two reasons why you're limping in my opinion. One is that the mining company is a public undertaking almost everywhere in Europe. There are several of them in this state, in Hungary as well, where the state interferes with the competition. At a time when concessions have been banned for two years, when mining concessions can barely be issued, and they are not really successful, I think that it distorts competition in itself; or when it comes to other concessions that the state is going into, or the retail trade, or we were discussing last week, it does not disturb the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government a little bit by doing so in terms of competition neutrality. Why here, where 300 people have 30 days to plan their next life quite simply, and how will they be then, think about it? I think, Mr Secretary, there is still a possibility, until 15 or 16, I do not know when the budget is planned to be adopted, let this appear in a row and push it out. Don't put the Lionies in this position, because believe me, in 15 years' time, if we think back, it might be valid that, yes, Russian girl, too, unfortunately, became like Komlo. But if we do believe in it, then let us fill it with content, let us start the training of miners, let us start the training of miners, and let us present this profession and the arguments we have mentioned in five points, either in this legislation, or also in any other means of legal management that will help us, and believe that it is in our interest that this profession, mining and its presence in the labour market and its ability to generate GDP will also appear in Hungary. This law half-promotes this; it has its form, the content has to be added. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-253	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman István Józsa; he has a little more than a minute.
u2014-12-01-254	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with the idea that my fellow cook started. So this is a framework that needs to be filled with content, and here from the content side I would like to focus on boosting domestic natural gas mining, because the traditional structure still has 74 billion cubic meters of natural gas theoretical stock, and this does not include non-conventional extraction. Non-conventional fracturing technology, such as what would be needed in or around the Mako trench, will receive special emphasis, naturally with proper authorisation, in light of the announcement that President Putin made this afternoon in Turkey that the South Stream pipeline will not be built. So domestic natural gas extraction will be of greater importance, which I would like to draw to the attention of the Secretary of State in the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-255	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment. Congressman László Varju, independent!
u2014-12-01-256	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, With the responsibility and the experience of working for a significant part of my life at a mining company, and not only following it for ten years, but as a person involved in this work, I also have the experience which, I think, in any case, tells me that yes, it is of great importance that the weight of such an industry is properly handled in a country. What I have seen in recent years is that, as a result of the downsizing after the regime change, this important industry has ceased in a way that makes it very, very difficult to restart. In recent years, you have seen some signs of action being taken, but the bill that has now been tabled here, the conditions for this, I think that you can only support and help to a very, very small extent, whether it is natural gas or whether it is actions in the field of uranium mining, in which there are quite a lot of people who think that this should be created. I think that there is a great responsibility for the fact that if a draft law remains only in this form, it does not provide for the possibility that it can indeed be an important player or an important element of the economy. It is therefore very difficult to support this in this form, and unfortunately my amendment could not be accepted technically, so this is the only way to accept it accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-01-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members have not applied for a speech, and I therefore close the debate and give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradszki, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2014-12-01-258	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In fact, the vast majority of this debate continued to explain the argumentary system in the general debate, and we were not actually talking about it? except for Congressman Sallai R. Benedict's comment? , the amendments discussed by the Legislative Committee, which were also discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs and discussed by the Committee on Sustainable Development, and on the basis of the majority position expressed during the discussions, the TAB's summary report and the debate on this is being made; rather, what was not in the Mining Law adopted in 1993 and subsequently extended several times was amended more correctly. At the same time, this law had no other content than that of mining companies, the conditions of mining, the granting of mining rights, the regulation of mining sites, the compensations related to them, and the order of the work of the authority. It has never been part of this law to address economic policy issues relating to mining. If my fellow socialists have missed this content, they have had 12 years, they have been in government for 12 years, and they have been actively involved in the mine closure for the first four years, and there must have been reasons for that, I think it is a pity to argue here. But for the next eight years, no straw has been moved to talk about mine opening, which has been initiated by the Fidesz Christian Democratic Government over the past four years, and has been included in the public address, the subject of common thinking, and I hope that this will continue. There are quite a few of us here who believe that we really want to maintain mining culture, mining as an economic force, as a profession contributing to economic development, and to ensure the resuscitation of mining, specifically coal mining. To this end, however, a framework needs to be provided, and these frameworks, which were also discussed in the general debate by several opposition representatives, can be sufficiently technical in this bill. It makes the procedural issues clear, it also clarifies the difficulties of interpreting the rights that have arisen in practice so far, and, therefore, in the preparation, thanks to the involvement of professional organisations, I think and in your view, this has been said in the general debate, it is very professional; it regulates the issues of compensation relating to mine openings, mine cultivation, and it is forward-looking. [[20.30]] Turning to the two specific amendments? that my fellow Member Sallai has presented and presented to this House? I have to tell you that I'm sure that this government intention is probably somewhere on the right track. Is one side specifically - namely, non-conventional natural gas production? He says that this should not be done, and this is a terrible threat to the sustainability of the human environment. The other side, the socialist party side? Do I think it's the right thing to do? claims that in view of the direction of our energy strategy, that we need to be independent of dependence, we need to find the forms and means by which we can mine our non-conventional natural gas reserves, and that we can use this for the benefit of our country, the Hungarian people, and thus ensure the security of our energy supply. I believe that this direction is correct and that this is facilitated by the proposed legislation. Should I add that in the debate before the Committee on Sustainable Development? Did my colleague Sallai forget to mention it? I told you then, I tried to explain what professional backgrounds are, which are the conditions, the environmental and water protection conditions that will allow the use of such technology in mining and mining. I also stressed that, when the detailed rules will be drawn up in the implementing regulation and brought to the government, we will take very much into account the recommendation of the European Commission, the content of which, in our view, the adaptation of this recommendation, can ensure that environmental risks do not arise and can be pursued without it. In parentheses, I note that this kind of technology is known in the world. It's done in many places without any pressure or damage to the environment. In Hungary, it was already known in the 1960s, and we have not been aware that the technology has been used since then? which was a scattered and exceptional phenomenon? any lasting environmental damage or pollution. Of course, this does not excuse us from bringing this non-conventional natural gas extraction into the field with the most consistent and strict underlying regulations possible, so that we can ensure not only the extraction of natural gas, but also the protection of the environment. Secondly, with regard to CO2 storage, I have to say that when the law was amended, I think in 2012, and we adapted the conditions for CO2 storage to the Mining Act, this was an EU requirement, a European Union legislative compliance had to be implemented by the Hungarian Parliament. Many of us then said in the debate that we really do not enjoy this compulsion. Many of us were of the opinion that it was unsafe and that it was not certain that this EU regulation was directed towards sustainable development, but that was our obligation. The second step we are now taking is to clearly separate the rules on CO2 storage in the concept of geological research, so that it is not possible, by chance, to initiate a procedure in which geological research on CO2 storage can be smuggled under the law. I believe that this is precisely the separation and separation within the geological research concept, and the procedural issues associated with it ensure that it cannot be uncontrolled under other geological research objectives, under the cover of it, to carry out this activity necessary for the storage of CO2. In this respect, I believe that the legislation will strengthen and strengthen the possibility of creating conditions for CO2 storage. Returning to the shale gas research and the fracturing process: it has always been common for mining stations and mining technical authorities to be the licensing authority. They were sort of in control of these decisions. We are only confirming this trend, and by allowing environmental and water authorities as administrations to participate in this process, we are also making clear the procedural order, and we are trying to remove legal uncertainty so that the two authorities do not take competitive first-rate decisions, because it is not good for investments, it is not good for mine openings, and it is not good for the goals that we all agree with, by the way, that the extraction of domestic energy sources should be promoted. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] On this basis, I can say that in view of the support made in the general debate, I ask that the bill also be supported by its votes when it is to be voted on. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-259	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place in the course of tomorrow's decisions. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain health and health insurance laws until closure. The submission was made in T/2123. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Welfare Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Sombor, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-01-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At this late hour, in my opinion, we must exchange ideas about an important package of laws. Thank you so much for coming with me. [[Lajos Korózs: There are not many of us anymore.]] For those who have followed the changes in health care and related legislation in recent years, it is almost customary for a comprehensive health law, called salad law, to be brought before Parliament from time to time. This is no different in the case of the bill submitted to Parliament today. The primary reason for this is that healthcare is a complex, diverse system where changes are usually made simultaneously in several sub-areas, which is accompanied by simultaneous amendments to a number of laws. First of all, I would like to point out that, thanks to the work of the previous cycle, there are results in a number of areas on which we can build in the next period. Important decisions have been made in recent years. Let us just think of the creation of a united public responsibility, the multiple wage increases for health workers, or the measures that Parliament has taken to protect non-smokers or to reduce unhealthy food. The foundations therefore exist, and the concept of the Semmelweis plan has also set out the right direction, and I consider it very important to change the way in which the public health approach has become the focus. [[20.40]] The objectives have not changed fundamentally: they are healthier, healthier citizens, a secure, equal access care system, which must be functioning, sustainable and of the highest possible quality. Work has been going on in our sector over the last few months. As a result, the concept adopted by the government was born: it summarized the work to be done in the coming period, the elements of which need to be reflected in legislation. The first amendments will appear already, in this package of laws and related regulations, and later in next year's legislation. I believe that with these legislation a new phase of health recovery will begin, even if the current package of laws does not contain radical changes; that is not the aim: instead of drastic, unexpected steps, we need conscious, planned, step-by-step work. One of the most important tasks is the reorganization of basic health care, which should form the basis of our health care system? not only because of his name, but also because of his real name. A separate law will be drawn up in March on the basis of the Government's decision, which will then be negotiated. In this new law, the aim will not only be to redefine and strengthen the system of general medical, paediatric and district dentistry, but also public health programmes, screening programmes, prevention programmes, their institutional system, strengthening our vaccination system, and improving and redesigning the conditions of the protective service. At present, we must also continue to transform the health institution system, because a more rational, flexible and thus more efficient system can really help the functioning of health care. In the context of the amendments, the system of pharmaceutical safety and specialist training is further strengthened, but I think that the most important message will, however, be a further strengthening of the public health approach. Our priority is to ensure that health protection, responsible, health-conscious thinking are present in every decision, every change, and that it has an increasingly important role in our everyday life. I am convinced that this is the real future of health, and this is also the key to a healthy, successful and human society. Ladies and gentlemen, Then allow the individual health and health insurance T/2123. I should also explain the details of the bill No 1. I have talked about basic care, which is an area where important and forward-looking steps have been taken in recent years, yet it is clear that we need to move on, because the system is being stressed by serious problems. In addition to the practice change programme, the funding of the funds and the funding of the districts, we know that there is still work to be done in this area: the solution to the situation of unfulfilled GP practices and the replacement of the ageing GPs. Our most important goal is to make young doctors attracted not only financially, but also professionally, to the profession of general health care. As I said, given the high importance of this topic, will we be establishing a separate basic supply law by March next year, which will not only increase efficiency? is the goal of getting as many patients in the districts as possible to receive definitive therapy? We also want to improve the prestige and funding of the basic supply. As regards basic supply, there are proposals for a number of eligible measures, mainly from the profession, which we already want to regulate in this law because of the intention of a rapid change. These are decisive measures to protect the right of the general practitioner. By amending the Act on Self-Professional Medical Activity, the municipality must seek the opinion of the licensing public administration before concluding with a doctor wishing to acquire the right to practice. If disputes were raised at the time of conclusion of the contract, the amendment of the current legislation will also allow that healthcare body to assist in resolving the dispute. This is aimed at improving the protection of the general medical staff. Here it is worth mentioning that the current legislative environment allows local authorities to unilaterally prevent a change of practice, thereby losing their value. It is crucially harmful for older, retired general practitioners who wish to leave practice. If a municipality does not wish to acquire the right to practice and to conclude a contract with the doctor, it must declare this, but there has been unlimited time to do so. Some municipalities played the game that they did not respond to the call, so they ran out of time, could not sell the practice to the general practitioner, and after a certain period of time the local government had free ownership of the right to practice. We would also like to change this by providing a 45-day deadline; therefore, if there is no reply, the principle of the agreement of silence is that the municipality has agreed to the contract. In the same way, the deadline for contracting has been missing so far, which has now been set at 90 days; in the event that the municipality has taken the time to conclude the contract, the buyer has also withdrawn from the practice. An important change is that, in practice today, a doctor who acquired his right to practice by virtue of the law does not necessarily have the right to practice, but the authority which issued the licence confirms it with an official certificate. From now on, subjects' right of practice, together with the records of healthcare providers, may be certified by an official certificate. In addition, we reduce the processing difficulties associated with the registration of permanently unfilled practices. In parallel with the current law, the Government decree provides support for the operation of practices with territorial supply obligations. At present, in the proposal of the Finance Act for 2015 an additional HUF 10 billion is available for this purpose. If the budget law is adopted, this will be an extra 130 thousand forints per district per month for the general practitioners next year. We want to increase the so-called fixed fee in general medical funding by this amount, which may primarily cover overhead costs and utility services. This money will be paid to any adult, mixed and domestic pediatric practice. By 2016, the government has a similar development plan, and we will be able to spend another 10 billion forints for this purpose. Here the goal will be to contribute to the salaries of assistants and district nurses working in practice. The government's aim is to ensure that the current funding amount in GP practices, from which GPs currently have to bear significant costs, can fully represent the income of the GP thanks to government support, thereby creating a stable, predictable income and valuable practice law for the government and, in our hope, Parliament's goal in the coming period. [[20.50]] Medicine is a very important area of our health system. In the area of pharmaceutical policy, serious steps have been taken over the past four years to create a more economically rational, professionally safer system, while the cost of medicines for patients has not only increased but also decreased. There are also changes in this legislation that represent an important step forward in specific areas of medicines. We are creating the possibility that websites offering false or illegal medicines will be unavailable. The pharmaceutical authority can thus act more effectively against unlicensed, so-called miracle drugs offered on the Internet, most of which pose a risk to our health, thereby preventing patients from being misled by products from uncertain sources. This does not seem to be a very important provision, but believe me, my fellow Members, that it is an extremely important tool for patients and, in fact, for their own health, because there is an uncontrollable amount of such products coming through the Internet that we have not been able to control until now. There is a serious threat to society from so-called designer drugs, which we have heard about several times in the past, related problems, even in the context of unfortunate deaths. Both the government and Parliament have already taken appropriate measures to reduce the spread of designer drugs. In this case, psychotropic substances are included in the Annex to the Act on medicinal products for human use. This list is now adding another 39 psychoactive substances, allowing for strict criminal prosecution of these substances in cases of abuse. There is also a government decree on this issue, in which we are trying to find the opportunity for the government to react as quickly and flexibly as possible to the emergence of designer drugs, as they are practically putting on the market every day or every hour with a small change of formulas. I'll ask for your help in this, too. This is an extremely important issue, since one of the most serious or serious risks of the drug problem is the design drug issue. With regard to the supply of medicinal products, we recommend a number of amendments that improve the conditions for the supply of medicinal products to the general public. For example, the change is to set a time limit for the relocation of a branch drugstore, or to make it possible for applicants meeting the same conditions to consider who is willing to take up longer opening hours at the establishment of a pharmacy. Emergency care is an important issue. The task of the National Rescue Service will be re-regulated in three important areas: rescue, on-call care and patient transport. Our aim is to further strengthen the security of patient care, which can be achieved by increasing the focus of competences, by increasing coordination and efficiency. The emergency services will be responsible for taking part in emergency care outside hospitals, managing, supervising the implementation of the emergency order and managing on-call care organised outside the hospital in a national and uniform manner. At present, this is happening in a very mixed way in the country, with many, many problems. We also clearly define the role of emergency services in the field of patient transport, the management of which has been transferred to the emergency services under a previous legislation. Patient transport is proposed to be coordinated and supervised by the emergency services in such a way as to immediately notify the medical administration of the irregularities encountered in these cases. This will eliminate many annoying and hurtful anomalies affecting citizens. It may be of minor importance, but it concerns a very important task of the rescue service: the fee for the event insurance activity can currently only be applied for on the basis of a case-by-case contract, we need to change that, and we are empowered by law to provide for uniform regulation. We also propose amendments to the legislation on the financial benefits of health care, which has already been published, but will only enter into force from 2015 onwards, and should therefore be brought into line with the current legal environment. As part of the medium-term government programme for reducing entrepreneurial administrative costs, a simple state will have a number of tasks affecting the cash benefits of health insurance. This means the implementation of a task set out in the 2013 Government Decision. As a result, the following changes will enter into force from 1 January 2015 if they are accepted in this form by Parliament. In determining the amount of the cash benefits of health insurance and the amount of sickness benefit, the income declared for the purposes of determining the personal income tax advance shall be taken into account in the insurance relationship on the date of entitlement to benefits. The distinction between regular and non-regular income will be eliminated and the period to be taken into account for calculating the amount of cash benefits will be changed. The amendments shall apply in the case of entitlement to benefits starting after 31 December 2014 and the amount of benefits applied for and established so far shall not be altered by the new calculation rule. By changing these procedural rules, we want to reduce the administrative burden for employers, as the employer no longer needs to fill in additional data sheets, the accounting is done on the basis of the monthly tax return to the NAV, so the employer only has to conduct administrative activities in one direction. In time, some of the income closer to income is replaced by cash benefits by health insurance, as the progress of time, the rise in the minimum wage, wage increases agreements between employers and workers, as well as progress in the workplace, in many cases also results in increases in salaries. At present, if the insured person has, for example, advanced at the beginning of the year and at the same time increased his salary, he will still receive cash benefits on the basis of income data in the previous calendar year. As a result of the changes, the calculation period will be closer in time, for example if the insured person is entitled to sick leave from 3 September 2015, the period between 1 January 2015 and 30 June 2015 will be the calculation basis for 180 days' income, provided that the insured person has continuously worked. Under the current rules, the increased salary established during the advance would not form part of the supply fund. The distinction between regular and non-regular income will be eliminated. From January 2015, non-regular incomes, such as bonuses, bonuses, other end-of-year contributions, and the amount of baby-care and childcare premiums, should be taken into account in the calculation of the benefit fund, not in proportion to the period for which it was paid, thus giving greater weight to the calculation of the benefit fund. When calculating the daily basis for benefits, the number of non-regular incomes will usually be lower, so a better solution is expected. [[21.00]] Other important changes to cash benefits are that, from 1 January 2015, these legislations should already be in line with the existing successful Gyed extra rules, as well as other related legislation, we had to review the legislation already announced but not yet in force. Some of the changes that should be highlighted are: women with a reduced working capacity who are subject to financial health insurance contributions may also be entitled to a childcare fee as a result of the amendment. In order to ensure legal consistency with the relevant provisions of the Child Protection and Social Management Act, it is necessary to amend the Health Insurance Act, so that children's care premiums and childcare premiums can also be eligible for family guardians. As you have heard, pregnancy and baby-bed benefits are changed to baby - care fees. And there is also a sad amendment, which, however, eliminates the former disadvantage, since in the case of a parent who had a child who was entitled to pay the baby care fee and is deceased, the parent does not immediately become unfulfilled with the amendment, since, in accordance with the Labour Code, the baby care fee will continue to be paid for the remaining period of maternity leave. Ladies and gentlemen, When we talk about health, it is very important that we also talk about workers in the sector, and we also face problems with human resources. In order to appreciate healthcare workers, we need to create decent financial and working conditions for them and to reduce the shortage of doctors and workers in our country. Sectoral wage increases in recent years, the residency scholarship programmes, have all been leading steps towards this, and we must not forget about replacements and training. In the legislative package there is an amendment proposal that already provides the legal basis for a new government decree on residency training, which aims to make it available centrally, from central sources and to all doctors in Hungary, to make Markusovszky or similar residency grants available to all doctors in Hungary. In this way, we are trying to help them stay at home, by not reducing their wages after the exam is passed, which is what we want to achieve in the coming period. This means developing the first part of the doctor's life model conditions and starting the process. There will be general elections next year for the public bodies of professional order in the healthcare sector, the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the Pharmacy Chamber and the Hungarian Health Professional Works Chamber. The chambers asked for clarification of the electoral rules so that there would not be a case in which the continuous operation and functioning of the chambers could be compromised. It has to be seen that the previous regulation was a little too strict. The legislative package also provides for very important principles, as Hungary has voted in favour of the solidarity-based and compulsory social security system in healthcare on several occasions. This must work in the spirit of equal access and justice. Therefore, the process that has become worrying in the Hungarian health system and has created an unclear state and private health mix has been decided by the government to separate the two forms of care from the perspective of space, time, organisation and funding. It is an important principle that no distinction can be made between insured and insured for financial reasons. In order to ensure the separation of public and private services, we must state in the Health Insurance Act that a healthcare provider with a financing contract cannot charge the insured person a fee for a health service that can be used for compulsory health insurance under the Health Insurance Fund. Of course, this prohibition does not apply to cases where the insured person requests and uses so-called amenities services or cases where the patient is still required to contribute to the costs of care. This is the installation of the brace. While it is not possible to deviate from what is stated in the referral during inpatient care, this does not mean in the future that the insured person can only be referred to a provider who is territorially obliged to provide care. During the referral, the patient may continue to indicate the need to heal in another hospital or another provider, which the institution may refuse only in particular cases, but it is an important change compared to the previous legislation that the patient's payment obligation cannot therefore be incurred, so that no money can be paid for this extra-territorial care. An important element of the organisation of healthcare is the sectoral institutional system. Some amendments to the law already indicate to what extent and how the government intends to transform the background institution system. This currently concerns the Institute for Quality and Organisational Development in Pharmacy and Health, the GYEMSZI, whose successor will be the State Health Supply Centre. This institution will take over public health institutions and related assets [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] exercise maintenance and ownership rights. In addition, the National Institute of Pharmacy is once again independent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say the rest in the second half of the debate, and I have reported on the major changes. I would like us to have a meaningful professional dialogue, because health is a common concern and responsibility for all of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Ildikó Bene, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, to him and to the other lead speakers in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/2123 ahead. by opening and amending a number of laws, it proposes the following objectives. Is it changing and simplifying at several points? Like the Secretary of State said? and make the area of cash benefits more flexible, and the aim is to reduce administrative burdens. Government Decree No 1056/2013 on the implementation of certain tasks concerning the cash benefits of health insurance regulates the tasks to be carried out, but we can say that there is no difference or change in the concept, but the Code of Work and the law will be transferred to this bill. [[21.10]] From 1 January 2015, are health insurance benefits in cash? which means the child care fee, the sickness allowance, and the baby care fee? , and in the case of an insurance relationship on the starting day of entitlement to benefits, the amount of the accident sickness allowance shall be taken into account for the purposes of determining the income declared for the purposes of determining the personal income tax advance. This is indeed a reduction in the administrative burden, as the Health Insurance Fund will count on the data declared to the National Tax Authority, thus eliminating the multiple reporting obligation. However, in order for this system to work well, it is essential that employers comply with the declarations on time. In the case of data submitted to the tax authority, self-revision is also possible, so the amount of benefits should be re-evaluated in accordance with the amendment of the related data, and the law also regulates the exact time frame for implementation. It is also important to incorporate the amendment into the Ebtv. so that the claimant does not remain without care even if the amount of the benefit cannot be determined, because no declaration of his income has been submitted. In this case, an advance may be fixed for him. The change in the statutory part of compulsory health insurance is also adapted to life that, on the basis of medical documentation, if justified, the inspector-general can justify the incapacity to work for 30 days. This legal proposal is also made by life, as in many cases after a several-day holiday hospital treatment, or if the patient is unable to show up after a treatment, the torture that comes before a medical committee can be simplified by this law. It is important to remove the distinction between regular and non-regular income. The Ebtv. also introduces the concept of rehabilitation medicine already used in professional thermology, which is also an important step. In order to ensure the separation of public and private services, it is necessary to state in the Health Insurance Act that a health service provider with a financing contract cannot charge the insured person a fee for a health service which may be used under the compulsory health insurance scheme under the Health Insurance Fund. That means it's practically the opportunity that the Ebtv has. have you previously ensured that a partial reimbursement fee may be requested from the patient, but is it important to emphasise it? What the Secretary of State told you? This does not mean that the patient can receive care only in the regionally competent hospital or outpatient care. This has already worked, as it can request the care of other institutions and the institution cannot refuse it unless the care of patients outside the territory would jeopardise the care of patients in its territory. In addition to the above, the part of the bill on cash benefits provides that the name of the pregnancy/child-bed allowance will be a baby-care fee in the future. Is it an important element of this salad law proposal to clarify and emphasize the tasks of the rescue service, and is that also very important? which is also supported by work and everyday internship? That the concept of need-based rescue and competence-based care is published in this law, which is very important, since it doesn't matter whether an ambulance goes or only the on-call service is required in the care of a patient, and it doesn't matter how quickly the patient gets to an institution where the care can be provided in a special way. After all, it may not be best for the nearest hospital to treat a patient with a stroke or a heart attack, and the emergency services can decide on the spot, based on their own decision and the patient's examination, which is the nearest hospital to receive adequate treatment. The amendment to the 2000 law on self-medical activities proposes that the municipality should seek the opinion of the administrative body authorising the right of practice before concluding a contract with a doctor wishing to acquire the right to practice, and that the amendment also seeks to enable the administrative bodies empowered to provide assistance in resolving disputes arising from the conclusion of a contract for the provision of tasks between the municipality and the general practitioner in deciding on the issues identified by the parties. This measure will help to improve the protection of the general practitioner at the time of contract. The Regulation envisages amendments to ensure the supply of specialist medical supplies, as it will provide the basis for centrally organised training of specialists from central budgetary sources in order to ensure the future targeted planning of human resources sharing in the system as from 1 July 2015. It is important to add new provisions to the pharmaceutical law. What the Secretary of State has said cannot be emphasized enough, because unfortunately today the internet is the site for the distribution of counterfeit medicinal products, possibly from illegal sources, and unauthorized traders want to influence or damage consumers who wish to choose a simpler solution to their problems and do not go away with their illness or their problems to the doctor. In order to combat the effectiveness of trafficking in illegal counterfeit medicines, it is also necessary to supplement the pharmaceutical law in order to act quickly and effectively against potential counterfeiters and to ensure that the demand for medicines made available on the Internet from uncertain sources can be reduced. I consider it very important to make an amendment allowing for administrative service exemption for medicinal products that acquire beneficiary status. This means that the special treatment of patients with certain very rare diseases will be assured in both the hospital and home environments, and I can say that in a sense the treatment of diseases that are not common in medical practice, but are extremely important in the lives of patients, is regulated by the law and is simplified and reassured. The bill represents a structural change in GYESZI. As a successor to GYEMSZI, the State Health Service Centre will act as a maintenance and/or property practitioner for public healthcare providers and public assets used for health care. The rationalisation of the operation of background institutions, their flexible, day-to-day functioning requires this transformation and, on the basis of experience, efforts should be made to ensure close, rapid and regular contacts with institutions and to identify decision-making competences to be taken on the ground. Dear House, The bill makes a change in order to ensure the continued functioning of the health chambers, but intends to amend the concept of data controller entitled to handle health and related personal data, in accordance with the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information. The draft contains clarifications on certain legislation relating to disease registers, the central implant register and the data retention of the health insurance body. In order to fulfil the obligation of protectionive cervix screening and reporting, it is necessary to grant partial rights to the protection women involved in the prevention work. Based on the experience of recent years, the adverse effects of extreme climate conditions on health should be considered, and measures should be taken in the medium to long term to ensure effective protection. The bill before us presents simplification in many areas by opening up a number of laws, seeking solutions to the problems that arise in everyday practice. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us, together with their opinions and proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-263	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-12-01-264	Thank you very much. Dear House, So late at night I try to make it shorter, I probably won't take 15 minutes. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that they have voted in favour of solidarity-based social security, and I am very pleased about that. I don't know if when the budget debate started last week or the week before, and I spoke, it was right here, Mr Secretary, but I mentioned then that I know exactly that transforming large supply systems is not an easy task. Each government should endeavour to transfer this area as far as possible in a better state than it has taken over. [[21.20]] And as you pointed out, Secretary of State, in the spring we can expect other adjustments to the basic supply to be made to this House, I assure you, Mr State Secretary, that you can count on constructive cooperation, because, yes, health is exactly the social subsystem, in addition to education, I believe, which greatly affects quality of life in many ways. Of course, I always remember that the pension system is my heart, but this is not the case. In particular, I try to deal with the cash benefits of social security for a few unclaimed sentences. At the end of my opinion, I will make some comments on which, when you discuss them later, Mr Secretary of State, I will thank you very much. The changes, as you mentioned, often mean technical changes, but this is not always clear, or at least it has not always been clear to me. As you modify several parameters of sickness, pregnancy and child-bed care, this is quite clear, and as my fellow Member Bene Ildikó referred to it, a government decree is usually referred to in the proposal. In this context, the measures relating to cash benefits that I would like to deal with will be implemented. In the way in which the measure is calculated, the changes are affected by clarifications, as you have explained; on the basis of the justification, in order to ensure that legislation to reduce the administrative obligations of entrepreneurs is in line with the extra rules of the law. Technically, they're recoding the existing rules here. The method of calculation also changes. In the case of future cash benefits, account must be taken of the income declared for the purposes of determining the personal income tax advance on the starting date of entitlement. That's quite clear. According to the justification, it means simplification, as, here I quote, the amount of benefits should be calculated from the monthly reporting data from the national tax authority. In the future, the period of calculation of the sickness allowance on which the benefits are based will be changed by determining the income of 180 days prior to the 3 months before entitlement. And if there is no 180 days of income, but there are so many days of insurance, it is calculated on the basis of 120 days' income; if there is no 120 days, then on the basis of actual income. If the holder does not have a continuous insurance period of 180 days, the minimum wage shall be used to calculate the amount of benefit if the income is below it, but on the basis of its level. If you do not have an income of at least 30 days because you have received cash benefits for at least 180 days, the calendar daily amount of the benefit to be determined shall be determined taking into account the basis of the last benefit. This may be applied if the basis for the last benefit has been established solely on the basis of the income earned by the employer on the date of entitlement. The extent of the care is determined by the accuracy of the child's child's benefit, the baby's baby's benefit, which is otherwise transferred to the baby's care fee, as you mentioned, and the method of calculation of the childcare fee, in accordance with the new rules for the calculation of sick money. This means that, on the basis of their amount, it will be compared to the calendar daily basis in the future, not to the average earnings of the day, as it is today. The rules for calculating the tuition are clarified where the insured person has no actual income. According to the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, it is necessary, in the interest of the insured, to provide that, in respect of children born before 1 January 2015, the amount of the child-bearing allowance or childcare allowance fixed after 31 December 2014 should not be lower than that which would have been subject to the rules in force on 14 July 2013. In accordance with the rules in force, if the amount of cash benefits cannot be determined within the general administrative period, an advance shall be fixed for the claimant. This will be done in the future if the amount of the benefit cannot be determined because the declaration of the insured person's income has not been submitted to establish the tax advance. It is also renewed that a substantive decision on cash benefits must be taken no later than one year after the order for an advance on the basis of the available data. Does the amendment require the payment of an advance pension during the period of incapacity for work to be terminated by order if the insured person is no longer entitled to sick leave? It's clear. In the case of the disabled insured person, the check-up doctor, Bene Ildikó, has already referred to this, can confirm the incapacity for work for 30 days if this is justified. I'd like to move on to the accident benefit. The rules on the use of an accident benefit are also clarified and supplemented as, following a restructuring of the care system for the disabled, the title of the payment has changed from disability benefit to old-age pension. According to the justification, and here I quote:. Without the amendment, the rightholder would receive a two-time discount for the damage to health suffered in a factory accident, on the one hand, an increased level of care and, on the other hand, an accident benefit. The amendment proposes to end this. It is only here, my fellow Members, that pension rights are bought by man. So there's no discount here. Secondly, disability or accident disability is an insurance risk. You don't plan on doing that, that happens. That is why I think that there is no justification here, or at least this statement of justification, that you are using two forms of benefits, and that would be some kind of benefit, I disapprove. Continued, in accordance with the Child Protection Act, it will be amended that the child-care guardian will have the right to use the child-care guardian and the right to use the child. In the future, there will be no longer a benefit for those who receive remuneration for works protected by copyright or a personal income tax-free fee. However, the reasons for this are as follows: Since the new rules on calculation do not distinguish between regular and non-regular income declared to the national tax authority, the loss of earnings will not be possible. In addition, in the future, the right holder will no longer be entitled to a remuneration under copyright protection. In the future, mothers who are insured under rehabilitation benefits and disability benefits will be entitled to cash health insurance contributions. It is specifically regulated as to the date from which the child will no longer receive a child benefit if the child dies. That's what you're referring to, Secretary of State. Yeah, it's a sad thing, and I don't want to do that anymore. However, all benefits are affected if the data at the tax authority changes, the amount of benefits should also be re-evaluated as a result of the changes in the data. During the re-evaluation of the amount of benefit, as I quote, within 30 days of being aware of the change, but not later than 18 months after the end of the period of entitlement to the benefit, the paying agency may amend or return its previous decision. Some of the things I have mentioned, Mr Secretary of State; I would like to make my comments. For me, but maybe I'm just being oblivious, it doesn't show the effect of changing the method of calculation which determines when income and how benefits should be taken into account. It is unclear why it is necessary to count down 180 days in the calculation of income for cash benefits from 3 months prior to entitlement. It is equally questionable, at least for me, what it will mean, that a benefit will be determined on the basis of monthly income data through the tax authority. It is also a question of how this will affect the amount of benefits. If you will keep your summary when the law is adopted, and you will discuss it or clarify it, Mr Secretary of State, I thank you. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: As far as possible, the new system concerns benefits determined on the basis of the tax return. If, within one year of the establishment of the benefit, the data relating to the period on which the benefit is based are modified with the tax authority, the OEP may amend or withdraw the amount of benefit for up to one and a half years. This is a serious violation, in my view, of the principle of legal certainty, as there are a number of cases where income returns are subsequently changed, and this may be without its own fault. So it is possible that the client does not know something, not about legislation, but he did not make a mistake, yet it is found subsequently that his declaration has changed beyond his own fault. Therefore, I think that this must be clarified. [[21.30]] My next point is interesting to me, and it is not understandable that both the law and the law will cease to be selective with the remuneration for the work under copyright protection, and in the future you will not be entitled to these benefits, who will receive such benefits. The exception to tax-free fees will also cease, which is valid only for the child under the age of one year, and I think that this may be worth considering; these are the two points in Articles 24 and 28. Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. I have minor suggestions or things that I would like to be clarified. In essence, the clarification of the accident benefit means that a former pensioner who has become a disabled pensioner or another disabled pension cannot receive an accident benefit, and it follows to me that a distinction is made between old-age pensioners according to how someone became disabled. In addition, they put it a little cynically that otherwise the rightholder would receive a double discount for the damage to health suffered in a work accident; I referred to this earlier, and I claimed that this was an insurance risk and not a planned thing. In the calculation of benefits, when a person does not have 30 days' income, it is necessary to establish the benefit on the basis of his previous benefits, it is not understandable to me why this option is limited in the event that that former benefit is exclusively determined from the income received by the last employer; this is Article 32. Furthermore, the need to calculate the benefit provided for children born before 2015 after 2015, according to the rules in force on 14 July 2013, I think it proves that the government is aware that the amendment at that time reduced the amount of benefits that could be granted. Furthermore, that rule has lived so far, now as if it had passed, would result in a further extension and will continue to apply only to those born before 2015, but it will also apply if the supply is determined after 2014; this is Article 45. §. I'm nearing the end of my time. I believe that the provisions concerning cash benefits contain amendments which affect the rules on which benefits are based, and thus affect the extent of them, and if they affect the extent of that, I would once again like to ask the Secretary of State to mention in his summary the things that I have raised. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-01-265	Thank you, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Lukács, Mr Jobbik.
u2014-12-01-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, They really understood last week's message, it seems, during the health debate on smoking, because now we can also welcome the health politicians of Fidesz here in Parliament's horseshoe. Does this show it, by the way? And then, of course, I'm not going to deviate from the subject, and I'm going to talk about the bill in the keynote speaker, but I can't stop talking about it? Does this show that the health contribution imposed on tobacco businesses was more related to a tax policy bill than to health, because then they would have been at least here by the Secretary of State, or could the Fidesz health representatives have been here, as they are now? You're right, aren't you? here are all those affected by this issue, because the subject is quite important. There is a dual feeling within the Jobbikon, and I myself struggle with a dual feeling, because salad laws are never the best way to prepare for major changes, or at all, to make some amendments to the law, but, overall, in terms of legislation, it is understandable that the adopted position, which the Secretary of State has also said, is that the changes in life in the last year, or changes in the profession in various fields, must be brought into line here now, and, finally, if this is the actual purpose of the salad law, then it may be acceptable in this, but otherwise it must always be avoided such legislation. Perhaps one of the protests or exclamation marks is that it is a law, and so does this bill, when it opens more authorizations and more doors, in the form of government decrees or ministerial decrees or in other forms for regulation, they always include that it is a little bit more difficult to look into, or a little bit slower to hear about legislative changes that are practically falling through the open door, sneaking into health regulations in this case. It is of particular interest that we are preparing for a change of structure once again, so when you open the back door to a change of structure, or so to say, the door, if any, at the level of a government decree, but also at the level of law in March, it is necessary to speak with caution because we all know that whatever changes we make in health care, its exit is much longer. The past years, or the previous cycles, have proved that, more than any change of structure, the organization itself has always had the energy to accept and understand itself, often the energy to consolidate officials, rather than what would actually be our goal by transforming health care, so perhaps such an exclamation mark can be put here as well. The other one that's like this? the authorisation of government decrees and the opening up of such so-called legislative places and new legal roads? The question of professional consultation raises a problem, as it is still very difficult to conduct a professional consultation in a credible way, or there is little time available, but I think that even when this bill was drafted, there may have been less time, and there could have been a great many professional organisations involved in professional consultation, where appropriate, pharmaceutical dealers, medical chambers or chambers of commerce, if we had looked at it, or the general doctors, the rescue service, so a wide range of professional consultations should have been carried out. I hope that this has been done by the State Secretary for Health, and this has been done, because these can be used to filter out those change demands? And maybe that's how the government acted, by the way? which are absolutely in need of change. Which, in essence, is important because it affects more than one area? I thought I'd tell you the things that are important to Jobbik, and on the one hand, a sign to the government that you're on the right path or the wrong way? So, the laws that this salad law concerns, I would like to put them in order, and I would like to say our opinions and our insights. The first is the Act on Health Administration and Official Activity, where we can discover the expansion of the responsibilities of health bodies immediately at the beginning, or the signs of a completely new institution or a new approach emerge, such as the climate-health task, which the government will normally install very well, because it may have taken the field, and this is a long-standing position that climate-health tasks should be specifically and with emphasis; perhaps in 2004, held by the WHO in Budapest? Has he been back for five years? The objectives set out in the conference may now be reflected in it. But is this the new one? And by the way, is it also welcome? developing rules for the control of cosmetic products or regulating medicinal water, for example. This may not have been said before, but it is a very interesting example and opens up a very interesting legal regulation. Here I feel, perhaps, again, that a money-oriented rule has been built on bathing water? For example, natural bathing areas? Will the government levy a supervisory fee of 80,000 forints on the free beach in this case? Let's call it an operator. Obviously, this may be justified by carrying out supervisory tasks, but I'm actually looking at another opportunity to earn income behind it. It shows this, and this is supported by the intention that perhaps the main purpose of the explanatory statement was to establish a fine and a basis for official control, so it also reflected a financial perspective somewhere. It is also very important to impose on-call rules for the tasks of health management bodies, including an on-call rule on pharmacist duty. In any case, these new institutional changes or institutional cases and refinements are welcome and eligible. The other is the amendment to the Act on the Management and Protection of Health and related Personal Data. [[21.40]] Is it also right here that, in connection with public health screenings, the government allows data processing, and the government gives permission to process data that is? And by the way, has this come up today, and I'm sorry to advertise my own speech here? in cancer cases, it is particularly important, and the bill presented specifically by the government also provides for the possibility of data processing in this area, as well as in protective screenings and screening tests, but also in cancer patients within the framework of the national cancer register. There may be a cautious exclamation mark here, too, that in the case of data processing, although you do have the right to information self-determination, and this regulation is completely consistent with what we apply, but you always have to be careful about registering health data. But I think that perhaps here the legislative objective of preventing cancers and public health data management is greater than the aim of data protection, because it is a much more prominent area. We know, and it was said in the answer to the oral question that Hungary has a lot to learn in this area, and it needs a lot of development, so this is also to be welcomed. The other amendment to the Health Act is also good, after all a technical detail that the definition of cells, organs and tissues has finally been developed and reached a common denominator. Here, too, we are concerned about the transfer of environmental health and health tasks that we have already discussed. The other thing is, let's finally settle the rules for free choice of GPs, how to make a legal statement, and here I followed the change with a lawyer's eye. There was indeed a need to clean up how this declaration of law could otherwise be made, and here, for example, the rules of representation and the way in which the rules are drawn up, the law gives another authority. It is extremely important and chapters and passes related to emergency services have also been discussed. We all support them, and we can also welcome them. Is it also important, on the one hand, to provide rescue services at national level,? coordination, but also surveillance and coordination of patient transport. It is also very important that medical services will also be part of the National Rescue Service system, obviously those that are not related to inpatient care. These are all goals that will contribute to making the rescue more efficient, and they may be able to detect the communication errors that we heard last week that one patient, in addition to the help of the other residents, may have waited an hour and a half for the emergency services to arrive and provide care. That's where we need to be. I know, by the way, that's not all, so there's a lot of changes to be made here, and there's a lot more to say. Perhaps it could be said, and that is what we have been talking to our fellow Members about, that many times in such a salad law, one feels that one can deliver its modifiers in such a way that he can come up with more salad...? We would like to put in a number of pieces of legislation and more of the pieces that have been taken out as improvements. But then it is likely that we will get thousands of pages of legislation at the end, which would be that with the amendments, but we need to draw the line in this, too. It should also be supported that it allows for the identification of heat and cold waves, as well as the necessary information and alarms in the solar season, to reach a level that is harmful to health. These were, by the way, within the framework of the SAO, but even more effective, even more precise action is needed. It is very important, and Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned the inclusion of new psychoactive substances on the so-called A-list, and we really need to keep up with that, and we really do have to keep up with them, and on the one hand, we are not missing out on medicine or on the other hand, but on the other hand, we are missing out on the last feedback, on the courts and on the police. After all, by the time these new psychoactive substances and their abuse reach a police phase, there will be more. It is therefore legitimate that we should finally have an effective system, even on the basis of a government decree, which keeps pace and can always include them in the category to be punished, since action against it is extremely important. To the extent that the so-called practice law on self-medical activity is concerned, it is also an excellent rule to introduce the 45-day deadline. The Secretary of State spoke about the abuses that were typically committed by the local authorities to the detriment of the general public. Indeed, the conduct that many local authorities have exercised was not fair, so the 45-day statement deadline or otherwise the silent consent rule in this case will be absolutely clear, and perhaps it will really help to make it easier for practitioners to switch hands, and otherwise it will be much easier for them to attract new doctors into general medical care. After all, this is our primary goal, both to fill those permanently unfilled practices and to keep the functioning of the cool practices in such a way that, by the way, it is completely fair to the doctors and doctors who wish to leave. Therefore, in this case, the rejection of the rule which did not contain any previous time limits was a positive and accelerated provision. This is also eligible. The conditions for carrying out health activities, the rules governing them as of 1 June 2015; there will be a debate here in a very clear way on the form in which it can be carried out. By the way, the fact that those in the first vocational training, general medical training, will have a public service relationship may be an acceptable picture. Hopefully, it will be possible for the government to join this, and I do not know what level of career model managed by the government, but otherwise, a career model that the opposition is very much expecting and very much urged and wanted to integrate as soon as possible, because if we pass, let us also say "bet," so in this case, if we really think that we want to see them in the service of civil servants, or think about them in this system, then it is very easy to associate a truly effective career model with this. And then we would not only be thinking of doctors, but also of other medical staff. Managing time will also have to be seen, and then I will jump a little bit, and perhaps I will also continue with other comments, that perhaps in this case, if you can do this, we will see a more transparent and easier, predictable specialist training, of course, the career model will be needed. It is also very important, and there may be challenges in this, making data inaccessible, selling online, it can be said to be an obstacle to the interns of highly harmful, uncontrolled articles that are harmful to health. It is very important and has been pushing for a very long time, and it has also worked in other areas, so it worked in the procurement of other articles. But let's put a exclamation mark here that it doesn't always work to make the state's idea of inaccessible. It is enough to think about the sports betting system, where they have also tried to block access for the sake of the state monopoly, but there is always a way to find the technology or the people who yearn for it. So I strongly suggest that we keep up with this rule and the further development of regulation with the development of technology, and that the fine of HUF 100 and HUF 500 thousand on communications providers may not fall where they should. And then, if you'll excuse me, I'm gonna finish my lead speakers here, and, of course, I'm gonna supplement them with what the visions are, and I'm gonna tell you what the merits of the bill are, and maybe even the points on which we're proposing to change. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-267	Thank you, Congressman Luke. I now give the floor to István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-12-01-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is a proposal, a salad law before the parliament, which gives a relatively accurate diagnosis of the state of health in Hungary, and then, after the correct diagnosis, would completely mistreat it. We can only hope that the patient will eventually survive. The basic problem is that hospitals do not come out of public funding from the National Health Insurance Fund. There wouldn't be enough doctors, O.R.s and equipment if there wasn't a source, money for tests and treatments. This is why months of waiting lists are developing, and that is why the more wealthy turn to private providers and private clinics. This is the root of the problem, and until we do something about it, we can only cosmeticize the critical condition. In response to the situation, starved hospitals allow private service providers to use unused technical equipment and premises to generate revenue from paying patients. One of the readings of the situation is, therefore, that in the same hospital, the same medical devices may be simultaneously ordered by the public and private authorities. [[21.50]] It is right to annoy anyone who believes that he can expect proper care from the state after a medical contribution. The current salad law shows that the governing parties can see and perceive the problem. Unfortunately, it also shows that they don't know how to solve it. They'll get to the point where a private operator can't operate in a public institution. They would even order that they not receive public money at all from private healthcare providers. So they completely separate public and private health in terms of both space and funding, in case people in the hospital, in the clinic, do not notice how much faster and more comfortable their patients can handle their affairs. But it also shows that they don't know what to do with the hospital's operational problems, the daily lack of money. So far, they have been able to obtain at least some extra income, since they could rent rooms and equipment. Fidesz would take this opportunity away from hospitals, and it doesn't look like there's anything to replace the money that's been lost. In the end, it is worse for those who choose public services and services. In particular, waiting lists go further in the field of diagnostics, hospitals will still have no money for improvements and everyday oiled operations. It would be a good solution for the benefit of patients, but it would require more work, care, and especially money, than a pen stroke to drive private providers out of hospitals. Until this is given, so until the government simply provides enough resources to run hospitals, it is extremely irresponsible to take this step. Are you prepared for the consequences of this salad law? Are they prepared to throw more and more life belts to public institutions on the brink of bankruptcy soon? That there will be an even greater difference in the quality of care available to the rich and the poor? The fact that overall, Fidesz' lost health policy is causing a significant deterioration in health indicators? Of course, the salad law doesn't end here, there are other problems the government party's plans tell us. We're putting new designer drugs on the no-fly list, that's a good move, but you're very late. Addictologists cry back in the '90s when it was possible to know what drug a drug patient was using and what to do to save lives and heal. However, this situation is in the past. Newer and newer substances, concoctions, spread for half a year, and then disappear from the market to replace them with more poisons. What's the consequence? The fact that legislation and healing are necessarily behind the real processes. The pursuit of drug users can no longer lead to meaningful results. Prevention, prevention, demand reduction and information can make real progress and quality rehabilitation of drug patients is important. You don't hear about that either. I do not wish to comment at this time on the termination of GYEMSZI and the establishment of the State Health Care Center, as they hardly allow anything to know about them, apart from mere facts. The tax on spas is incomprehensible and harmful. We are also not convinced whether the SAO has the necessary capacity for building and public health control tests, which this law assigns to them. Of course, there are positive changes here, all of which are small compared to what I started. You're taking away a small amount of hospital revenue by chasing out private operators without giving anything to the institutions in return. It is clear that you can see precisely the problem posed by the parallel functioning of public and private health. It also shows that they do not have a real solution to this situation. This will exacerbate the prospects for sick people and health care. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-269	Thank you very much. The Christian Democratic People's Party has indicated that it does not wish to make a keynote speaker. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Szabó, the first independent Member, in a 15-minute timeframe.
u2014-12-01-270	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It is indeed late, but it is undoubtedly important to have this legislative change package lying before us. After all, as the Secretary of State has said, it is in all our interests to have a well-functioning health care system in the country with sufficient efficiency, and, in accordance with the request of the Member, we have essentially prepared this speech to highlight the points in which we believe there is a small problem, and if we are to stop it, we could create an acceptable legislative change package on our part. On the one hand, the law on the processing and protection of health and related personal data would be amended in Article 13. §2 of the Directive, according to which, in the future, the screening health service provider shall forward the personal and screening health data of the people involved in the screening test and the time of the screening test to the medical administration. For us, the question is really only about what will happen to the data. After all, the results of the screening tests should land at the home doctor of the insured person, as it makes sense to prevent further unnecessary tests and to include abnormal results in the care of the patient. The health insurance body, OEP, should be able to identify the insured family doctor and transmit the screening data in Hungarian, so the screening data should be transferred to the public administration or health insurance body, which would then be able to forward it to the general practitioner, or, in the event of another solution, the public administration body should request the information of the general practitioner involved in the screening from the OEP within eight days, and would then be able to transmit the data to the general practitioner. On the other hand, the results of the screening should be recorded in the patient file of the insured physician, as this is the only way to take the necessary professional steps, diagnostic and therapeutic steps, care and so on. This would make sense for screening tests, and the results of screening tests could be incorporated into patient-related curative prevention activities. The law on compulsory health insurance benefits would be amended by the proposal 17. Article 2 of the Act on Healthcare Service Providers, Chapter I, would be supplemented by the fact that no reimbursement fee can be requested from the insured person for the service used by the Health Insurance Fund. Mr Secretary of State said that this activity would be separated in time and space. The real question for us here is how a healthcare provider with a financing contract can sell its free capacity which is otherwise available but which is not covered by the financing contract. The question to us is: is it good to have these expensive diagnostic equipment or therapeutic tools left unused? Employees, i.e. those working in the health care sector, will, of course, take part in a private health institution instead of dividing the activity within the institution itself in space and time, so that the hospital could actually generate its own income. Why is it a problem if their own, let's add, would mostly provide revenue to their heavily underfunded institution while they would earn additional income themselves? I'll tell you the truth, we'd be on that party, that we really need to regulate this thing, and we shouldn't ban it so characterfully. We fear that if this proposal is adopted in its present form, we will simply direct patients who are impatient because there is a long waiting list, but otherwise they are able to pay for the service. In addition, we fear that well-trained health professionals may migrate from public health institutions. This may be particularly interesting for those working in health institutions in medium and larger cities, where these parallel private institutions may appear. Moreover, the private sector will certainly respond to demand growth by expansion and will simply be able to pay higher wages to health professionals. [[22.00]] The result of the whole intervention is that we fear that the state institutions will actually become more indebted and their shortage of professionals will increase. You want me to mention an absolute positive? have several fellow Members mentioned this? , the amendment to the Health Act would be subject to Article 54. §, which clearly defines the role of the National Rescue Service in the operation of medical services. In this, we absolutely agree, it is a regulation that was about time, and this is interfering with the problem in the right place. The amendment to the Health Act would be the 63rd Amendment to the proposal. §8 of the Act would be supplemented by a provision under which healthcare providers are obliged to cooperate in order to prevent health crises. Is this a question of how it works, how it's regulated? for example, spatial, temporal limitations of secondment, exceptions, exemptions, remuneration, reimbursement of costs? when and in what form it will take place; here we feel a little incomplete regulation. An amendment to the Act on Self-Professional Medical Activity would be referred to as Article 68. §, according to which the municipalities must declare within 45 days if they do not wish to conclude a contract for the provision of tasks with a doctor wishing to acquire the right of practice. That was what the Secretary of State said that there has been unlimited time to do so. Nevertheless, we would be on the side of making the deadline for regulation even shorter. We have consulted domestic doctors on this matter, we would propose a 30-day deadline, which would allow us to limit even more the possible time of incapacity; because strengthening the basic supply is really very important, so that we could improve this even more slightly. The same paragraph would also regulate that, if the municipality does not make a statement, it should be considered that the municipality intends to conclude this contract of service and that it should be concluded within 90 days. Also for similar reasons as I mentioned earlier, we would suggest a 60-day deadline here. The amendment to the Act on Self-Professional Medical Activity would also constitute an amendment to Article 69. § 2 which states that, at the time of the conclusion of the contract for the provision of the service, the authorising medical administration shall assist in resolving any disputes arising. In our view, it's kind of blurry. If it is indeed intended to strengthen public responsibility in relation to basic health care, then the public health administration should exercise legal oversight in the given situation, take a decision in Hungarian, and then the decision can be appealed according to the rules of the administrative procedures, so that this would be resolved with satisfaction. The amendment to the Law on Professional Chambers in Health would, inter alia, constitute an amendment to Article 86. §, several of my fellow Members have mentioned this, by the way. More specifically, the 86th floor. According to § 3, regional organisations and national bodies would be legal persons, regional organisations and national bodies would not be registered by the court. This part was obviously entered into the salad law because the Hungarian Medical Chamber had forgotten to register itself and its national organs more than ten years ago, so in many of the ongoing and final cases, the legal capacity of the Medical Chamber could not be demonstrated, including in a lawsuit against more than 20,000 medical chamber members. In these lawsuits, the Hungarian Medical Chamber was represented by a law firm otherwise contracted to it for decades, which received millions of HUF extra income, and, moreover, it was not legally legal to its client. The operation of chambers would also be affected by the proposal 87. §2 of the Act, which provides for the rules of the Chamber elections. Here, my fellow Members have mentioned that it is important to loosen up a bit on the rules because of the ability to function. On the one hand, the first round of chamber elections would be valid according to the new proposal if more than 25 percent of the qualified chamber members voted, while, in the event of ineffectiveness or invalidity, the second round does not provide for a threshold of validity, i.e. the number of members cast the vote will not be taken into account, however it will be valid. In fact, in our opinion, the main element of the previous Chamber elections was that less than 4 percent of the current Chamber leadership and delegates were elected. We think that this amendment will actually only degrade professional chambers, create a chamber of low legitimacy, maintain them more precisely, or make them even less legitimacy. Perhaps we should encourage them to take part in the elections in some way; this is obviously very difficult to achieve, and we agree on that. An amendment to the law on the development of the health care system would be amended by Article 106. §. According to this, the State Health Services Centre exercises ownership rights and obligations over the state-owned property, as many of my fellow Members have said here. In fact, what we think of this is that, in itself, the debt of hospitals will be transferred to the newly formed public supply centre instead of GYEMSZI, which will remain the same and will be re-produced in the same way. We believe that this is rather a substitute act in this sense, so the fundamental problem is not solved by transferring these rights to a state centre, the financing problems should be resolved. These were our most important comments and proposals, and we will also present amendments to them. We think that if they can support these points, we can support the entire bill. Thank you for listening.
u2014-12-01-271	Thank you very much. Other speeches will follow; a preliminary speaker will be Ms Molnár Ágnes, Member Fidesz.
u2014-12-01-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think that we can all agree with the clear objectives that the Secretary of State has said in his exposé. It is important to note that the Semmelweis plan has been completed to renew health care. This must continue to be our guiding programme, and on the basis of the comments that have been made, I believe that my fellow Members, as well as my fellow Members, are holding the Semmelweis plan as a guide for a programme for the transformation and renewal of health care. As a result, it will lead to a sustainable, efficient and equal access healthcare, and this will be a public health system. Since 2010, significant funding has been made for the healthcare system: we have spent 20 percent more on curative and preventive care since 2010. We also welcome the declaration by the Secretary of State that the health care system should be transformed with a public health approach and that we would like to further strengthen the sector accordingly. All kinds of preliminary steps have been taken over the past four years, and the foundations have been laid. We have taken very important public health measures: reducing smoking, introducing a public health product tax in order to filter out health-damaging products or limiting trans fatty acids. These may still be inexplicable, important steps for you, but in terms of the future and our common future, these have been inevitable measures; unfortunately, these have only been taken in the past four years. T/2123 for individual health and health insurance. This approach is already seen in many elements of the legislative proposal No.1, so it is very important that, in this salad law, the proposals are clearly visible in order to lay the foundations for further renewal on the basis of clear objectives. [[22.10]] I would like to focus on three areas. One of the most important things is, perhaps, the strengthening of basic supply for the restructuring of the supply system. It's a key question, not just because it's in his name that it's basic. If basic care, which is much more extensive than the general medical system, is strengthened, and continues to be treated as a priority in previous years, we can build a more respected system from a professional and financial point of view. Significant steps have been taken in this area over the past four years. If we look at the 2015 budget plan, the financing of the basic supply continued to be strengthened, and there will be 30 percent more money for the basic supply in 2015 compared to 2010. The Secretary of State also indicated that we are not only talking about 2015 in strengthening the basic supply, but that it will continue in 2016. In 2015, the draft budget has an additional HUF 10 billion in resources to strengthen the general medical system, which will give around HUF 130 thousand in extra money to each practice at monthly level, and we will continue this confirmation and funding confirmation in 2016. In the current bill, several provisions have already been included in the amendments, which specifically protect the general medical system and protect the law of practice. According to the amendment of the Act on Self-Professional Medical Activities, the municipality will have to seek the opinion of the public health administration which has authorised the right to practice in the future before concluding with a doctor wishing to acquire the right to practice. This amendment can allow the medical administration authorised to authorise the right of practice to assist in resolving disputes arising from the conclusion of a contract between the municipality and the general practitioner. All of these provisions provide better protection when a general physician is contracted. Ladies and gentlemen, If we can strengthen basic care, we can reduce the burden of our hospitals and our clinics, and that is that it will be better for the patients, the doctors, and it will be better for the budget, because we can ensure the recovery of patients towards cheaper care. As a result of the government's drug policy over the past four years, the supply of medicines has now become more economically rational, professionally safer and ethically sensitive than in 2010. The provisions of the current bill on pharmaceuticals provide important new detailed rules to combat counterfeit medicines and so-called designer drugs. Effective action against designer drugs has been prioritised by the government already in the 2010-14 cycle, as there has been a rapid increase in their spread, and therefore, in April 2012 the Government issued legislation on activities with drugs, psychotropic substances and new psychoactive substances and on listing and amending lists of these substances. Design drugs should be considered as strict as possible because of the high social risk they represent. To this end, 39 new psychoactive substances have been added to the list of psychotropic substances under the pharmaceutical law. Public health risks can be minimized by the strict control of new psychoactive substances with proven health and social problems. Unfortunately, products referred to as counterfeit medicines are often tried to be distributed illegally on the Internet. This is misleading and putting uninformed consumers in serious danger in the absence of a medical and pharmacist's check, so I consider it important to amend that, in some cases, electronic data can be temporarily rendered inaccessible and, as a result, we can act effectively against counterfeiters and public confidence in the pharmaceutical and pharmaceutical administrations will be strengthened as a result. Dear House, Perhaps the most important component of the functioning of our healthcare system is the sacrifice of our doctors and nurses working in the system. We therefore need to create conditions for them to reduce migration, that is to say, the migrant worker's job, and to set the same goal for our future doctors and health workers. In addition to improving wage conditions and other working conditions, one of the tools for this is the renewal and further development of the specialist training system. The bill establishes the legal basis for the system of professional training, which is centrally organised and provided from central budgetary resources, and for the management of the budgetary resources of specialist training, in order to ensure the supply of specialist medical supplies and the planning of future human resources distribution from 1 July 2015. The related administrative tasks will be carried out in the future by the Health Authorisation and Administration Office. This amendment is important, as a result of which support for specialist training can be provided to employers by the shortest route. My dear fellow Members, over the past four years, as a result of the government's decisions, the construction of a career model in health has started, and we have started the career model. On two occasions, we launched wage increases in health care and launched support for specialist candidates in specialist training. In this support scheme, scholarships such as the Markusovszky Scholarship were introduced, which is HUF 100,000 net, the Károly Than Scholar Scholarship for pharmacists with a HUF 100,000 net supplement, the Méhes Scholarship for candidates in paediatric care, and the introduction of the Aurél Gábor Scholarship for candidates in emergency care. In addition, we have designated missing professions. In order to support the skills gap, scholarships will also be paid to candidates who choose these professions. By changing these laws, it is extremely important to shorten the payment of these grants to the employer so that they can get to our specialist candidates as soon as possible. The 2015 budget, by the way, is also important to note that it supports and ensures the continuation of these funds. [[22.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, So this new bill is a very important link to the work done to renew health care, and that is why I ask everyone to support the adoption of the law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-01-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP.
u2014-12-01-274	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, touched on the most important nodes on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, in line with the draft law, and I will therefore not repeat them. As such, I will give you three thoughts in two or three minutes. One is that I would like to confirm the part of what has now been said in the last speech, which, in line with the basic services, obviously concerns the strengthening of those, including in the preventive way, which could mean the timely replacement of hospital benefits. So I think it's a process worth sacrificing to, and it's worth confirming. But this is said not only by the leaders and representatives of Fidesz, but also by us, and I believe that many people are among the walls of Parliament. The other part of the story is that when Mrs Ágnes Molnár talks about the withdrawal of funds over the last few years, I feel a little strange, because wherever I go within the framework of health institutions, I hear that there is a withdrawal of funds everywhere. But even if there is no withdrawal, let's just say that the story is zero, even if it was a 10-20% withdrawal, would I still like to say that in the last four years? Only in the last four years? It was 18 percent inflation that marked practically these four years. So in that sense, even if there had been 20 percent involvement, it wouldn't have happened? Putting it in a subpoena? Nothing like that. One word, like a hundred, is therefore not worth talking about. Unfortunately, in my conviction and experience, there has been much more withdrawal from health care than from resources. It is not random that the waiting lists are increasing in duration, and apparently there are no decreases in volume, but accumulations and duplications. Technically, these are not positive results in the last few years, but rather negative results, and they would be useful in making significant changes. And maybe there's a little bit of a picnic comment, and it's also about me seeing that you're virtually self-sufficient, and I'm telling you in the sense that the patient who goes into health centers, the care centers, takes the little bag with him, takes the ointment tit, takes the medicine, the painkillers, things. Not yet, so whoever has to lie in there might get the bed and the sheets, the clean sheets. I think this is not a good trend either, this is not a good trend, and we should also make changes. Now, if that's the case, and that's where the health care goes, forgive me, but then you can't talk about fundraising, obviously it's only a withdrawal, because if you can't provide those services to the same standard as you knew before, years ago, it's not about inclusion, it's about withdrawal. The other part, which I would like to briefly mention, is what Mr Secretary of State said in his introductory exposé, the system of wages. I am sure that you can see clearly and clearly the change in the earnings of people in the lower income range, in particular, over the last few years. You know, as an example, what the net income of a minimum wager in 2010 was, if not, I'll help you: 60 200 forints he put in his pocket. That was his net. You also know how much the minimum wage is now, you know, what you put in your pocket, so it's not what you put on the posters, how the minimum wage increases, but what you put in your pocket is 66 483 forints. You also know that if you recalculate these two incomes to each other, with 18 percent inflation, calculated only in the last four years, then this is worth 5 thousand less than in 2010. So far, I think we can follow the story. And if I can even conclude that you are aware that there are more than a million people in Hungary today who are earning income below the minimum living age, and you probably also know that the social sector and the health sector are involved in this, then you will probably be able to come to the conclusion about a logical reasoning, which I am finding, too, that unfortunately, because the 60 200 and the minimum living at that time was 77 thousand, it also had a difference of 17 thousand forints, but the 66,000 and today 88,000 have a difference of 22,000, which is 5 thousand more than that which was 4 years ago, 5 years ago. This in itself means and involves, unfortunately, increasing the value of the wage earned by those in the lower income range, as well as the content, quantity and value of their earnings, as the difference is also increasing, for example, in relation to the minimum wage and the minimum wage. In this, unfortunately, is the health care staff in the sector? I'm not talking about doctors, of course. significantly affected. Is there, therefore, work to be done in this respect, so that it does not happen that the kind of migration we are talking about here? And I'm not talking about migrating doctors, I'm talking about the support staff? This should not be strengthened or raised to a level that combines Hungarian health care with a level of risk that is actually coupled with incapacity and not care. I just wanted to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that, in my view, beyond what my colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, and other Members, have said, what attention the story requires in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-01-275	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member Jobbik.
u2014-12-01-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to talk about children's fees, discounts, benefits. Do we agree with the government's efforts, and I think that the government, the government and Parliament are paying off their debts for several years or even two decades, whether they rename such benefits or different forms of supply, and the pejorative? for me, and it looks like it's pejorative for the ruling parties, too? He's replacing words. Thus, we no longer talk about pregnancy and child support, and we do not talk about aid, but we are talking about baby care and we are talking about a prize. Or, in parallel, I could mention the introduction of prenatal care instead of old prenatal care. Here, too, I think that the elimination of the word "pregnant" can be considered a positive process, because if we want to change the current demographic situation, then we do have to change these concepts, because in my opinion, the concepts can also put order in the heads. So a pregnancy, a child's waiting, is much easier for a parent to undertake than a pregnancy, and I also think, speaking to the ladies involved in this, that no woman considers this blessed condition and the period of child's waiting to be a burden. However, I also have some concerns about the changes that others have already mentioned in their speeches, such as the expansion of the scope of exclusion, the elimination of royalties and the elimination of income not subject to income tax from those who could benefit from these benefits. The other one, which we have already contested before, is to maximise the amount of child fees mentioned in the proposal. [[22.30]] I believe that this can lead to negative processes, because if we maximize these benefits by 70 percent of the twice the minimum wage, then we encourage parents, mothers with above-average income or a better income, to resume working and working again before the expiry date. Whether it is my own studies or my own experience, I can say that I believe that for the healthy development of a child's personality, healthy socialization processes, I believe that a parent should be able to provide full care until at least three years of age to stay at home with his child, but if we maximize the amount of the child's child, then we will achieve that before the age of one year, parents, mothers who belong to a higher income category, are unable to accept the loss of income, and if they cannot maintain their established standard of living from 70 percent of the twice the minimum wage, this will encourage them to get to work faster, and thus their children will lose the opportunity to spend the time they need for their healthy development at home with their mothers. In several cases, the law mentions the issue of praxis law. Although it does not appear in this bill, I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to an anomaly in the law of practice, which I, as a social professional, have received as a signal from my own profession, and that is that institutions providing long-term housing require the use of a full-time doctor in these institutions, such as a nursing home or a nursing institution. The head of the institution struggles with the fact that a doctor does not really want to pay his own salary as a public servant, so these special cases would require the introduction of a special practice right to make it attractive for practitioners to either work as an institutional doctor or not have to carry out an overloaded condition of working as an institutional doctor, but they take a practice alongside him or their second job, because we know very well that such large numbers of institutions can provide a full-time doctor with such a burden, especially if we take into account the special tasks of an institutional doctor in such institutions, so we cannot expect them to continue working elsewhere in addition to their physical power, because it can actually be said that income from the public employment pay table is not enough for them. The other change due to the coherence issues, the issue of medical aids, the question of free or preferential medical aid provided by the public health care provider, is a question of free repair. Under the current legislation, this anomaly also occurs, and I think that the amendment introduced due to the problem of coherence should also pay attention to the problem that although, in general, the improvement of these instruments is free of charge within the period of delivery, in most cases the companies that make the free repair charge are charged. So from now on, the freeness of this service is questionable. I think that if this is already in place, then this issue should be clarified, because in many cases even the payment of the HUF 5 000 withdrawal fee may be difficult for a disabled person whose daily livelihood still requires a higher amount than that of a healthy or sound partner. I believe that these amendments are still necessary. And if we look at the system in a complex way and look at these problems globally, I think that without these additions the amendments are worth less, and therefore they are absolutely necessary. These problems are worth considering. We will also make use of amendments to this, and I would ask you to reconsider and support them if you consider them worthy. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-277	Thank you very much. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. Yes, I give the floor to Congressman Luke.
u2014-12-01-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd pick up where we left off. Point 106 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 2 has been affected by many of us, which means the State Healthcare Services Centre which has entered instead of GYEMSZI. As I read the bill, the only thing I've noticed is the mystery of the reform of the institutional system. Then, of course, did I realize that this was later legislation? Like I said? it will open up space and possibly give an opportunity to provide other legislation in March. So it looks like we're gonna have to wait until next spring for a full remodel. But one thing is certain, and I would like to state that beyond the transformation? And the hospital debt was affected here? additional money is needed, because any such transformation is doomed to death if we do not add enough money. So debt consolidation is just one step. The other, which is also interesting and may be a cause for discussion or consideration, is that the restructuring has also brought up news that hospitals have already begun to build on each other's positions, so a movement has started in the background in which either they promise each other, or they want to take their own position in the transforming structure, and a speculation has started in the field of hospitals. This can be driven by the fear that everyone is afraid of their own competence and their own capacity, and they are afraid that they may be acting as they were during the Semmelweis plan that hospitals were forced to give up certain benefits. I would like to draw the attention of the profession to these developments in the background, as the State Secretariat has much greater insight into such needs or preliminary inquiries, perhaps some kind of groping. This will also be an important part of paying attention to the structure already in place and not giving in to the level of care that we have already had. I have also pointed out this earlier today in the debate programme before the sitting day that, unfortunately, the energy of all such structural shifts and tasks often goes to the system itself to change itself and the positive effect that a real change in the health care sector will occur, always somehow disappears. So almost all the money, time and strength will always go to the organizational transformation and focus on itself instead of focusing on the care system. Moreover, several people have already expressed this criticism about previous restructurings and restructurings. About the board of health? I think it is important to say this - : the Medical Chamber has so many parallels with the Bar Chamber, of which I used to be a member, and I am a member now, but because of the conflict of interest, I cannot exercise my profession, that the problem there for a very long time was that the election of chamber officials required a certain threshold of participation at the first meeting, which had to be jumped, but of course it did not succeed, and then the next one, regardless of the presence, in a relatively low proportion? As my fellow Member said, is that how it happens? A very small percentage will then exercise this opportunity. Will the creation of this rule put in place what, unfortunately, has also been introduced in the Bar Association, that very few participants are involved? And that's not the problem of the state and not the government, but the problem of the profession? It will be a very small number of companies that will actually qualify for a decision in the chambers. The gate of the chambers should be opened much wider. The main thing to notice here is that the persons involved in the Chambers are becoming more and more distant from their own officials, chamber public life and chamber opportunities. Of course, in addition to the creation of permitable rules, it is necessary to work on the publication in chamber legislation of those who encourage chamber members to participate in their own affairs, as this is also their interest and advocacy organisation. So what you can't just treat as a power tool is who becomes an official and who doesn't become an official. The criticism in this direction is that there must also be an incentive role on the other side. Of course, the government can't have much say in this, because the Chamber has its own autonomy to organise them itself. But better-meaning criticism can be formulated. [[22.40]] And what I have written down to my fellow Member is simply the question of legitimacy in court, whether the Chamber itself or the Chamber's regional organisations have legal personality. Well, in this case, the Chambers legislation provided for that to be provided. It's just the new Ptk. He said the registration was missing because this was previously...? That is my position anyway, but there may still be court negotiations in this case. My view is that, in the past, you did not have to have this registration, because you fulfilled the legal criteria, your legal personality was defined by the law, but I understand that this is a need to comply with a new Ptk. But perhaps Mr Secretary of State will be able to answer them now, later or perhaps in writing. Then turning to what, in conclusion, is either the criticism, merit or the negative perception of the bill: I consider it out of the question that Fidesz fellow Members feel that they have the full authority in the field of health to really put something on the table by the government and the health government. I urge you to seize this opportunity when both left-wing parties and Jobbik, but any political force constantly assures you of support and progress. Try to communicate this in a way that now is the opportunity, apart from minor disputes, to have a step forward, there is a pressure on the government, where appropriate, that can now be used with the consent of the parties. And even if you have the authority to do so, why don't you have the authority, then put the intention behind it. And let's actually take a much bigger step forward. Because the last four and a half years have been more about finding a way to health care, and the really important decisions may have been delayed, or there has been no will for money yet. So I wanted to say that, in any case, that they should now take this mandate, which is now also reflected in the salad law. I believe that if normal and viable proposals come in the spring, there may be a mandate to live with, in addition to telling and hearing criticism. However, I have already mentioned your merits, but I will just say that to support the tightening up of psychoactive substances, the transmission of public health information on cancer diseases, climate health tasks have long been waiting for you, and more effective rescue is also very important anyway. And it is especially important that the health government has finally voted in public and private splits. I mean, I've always said that in two-speed health care, it seems like he voted for one-speed and public health after all. This was, by the way, the Jobbik's position to the end, and we have always urged the government to stand up for it. We're glad you stood up, by the way. However, it is negative that, in my view, they are opening up space for nationalisation of pharmaceutical wholesale. We feel a bit stealthy, and we see a change in the rules as such, that it also opens room for Fidesz with a rather good appetite for all kinds of wholesale trade. I told you about the impenetrable thing. There is a need to consider what can really be done effectively and not only with a small amount of legislative space to prevent and prevent illegal or harmful commercial activity. By the way, I think we will have amendments to this. The other was the mandate of the restructuring and restructuring of Bianko. It would have been very good to get to know that concept in advance, or to get to know it completely, in detail, the concept that the State Secretary holds in this, or what the direction is. Well, for now, it's just conferences or press releases. We may know more now, but it would have been nice to know the concept more deeply, and then perhaps we could have made more criticisms. So, overall, I can say that, of course, Jobbik will also take advantage of the opportunity to make amendments to the bill. I think that all of these will be positive, or will be directed towards the great whole goal. I really wish that they would seize the authority that is rarely given to the government, that in such an important area, when it really needs to be done, then there is a consensus in the direction, in intensity. I wish you would heed those words. So, overall, our criticisms will, of course, be known as Jobbik's position. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-279	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek.
u2014-12-01-280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Doctor, Forgive me for not being a politician, but there are few of us in the faction, so we have to take a stand as a matter of necessity. In the draft legislation, I would like to draw attention to three points of concern. Most of it is clarification, and let me say that those which are forward-looking are not mentioned now, since I am not obliged to praise them as opposition politicians. It is clear, therefore, that a number of points can be agreed with the amendments, which are forward-looking in a number of points. However, there are a few stages of the draft that bring about fundamental changes in some areas. I will not confuse the general debate with a detailed debate, but I want to name the parts concerned specifically in order to make it understandable. The first part is 17. §., Chapter I of the Health Insurance Act, the subtitle of health services is the following 9/B. Section 2 would be added: the health service provider with a financing contract is entitled to a fee from the health service provided under this Act under the health insurance scheme, including Article 23 (3). A partial reimbursement fee within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be required. In essence, as I understand it, it means that the institution financed by OEP cannot provide the same service for a fee. I do not know how this works in practice, but if there is an unnecessary operating room or a diagnostic capacity, then in addition to the performance volume limit, the institution cannot sell this bypassing the OEP waiting list. This may mean that, in part, the private company in OEP funded healthcare does not provide a paying service, so it de facto removes them from OEP funding. If this is achieved, then in the field of diagnostics there are a number of radiological enterprises, laboratories...? limited public capacities can lead to very long waiting lists. Here, our experts have seen a fundamental concept problem, namely that the current health management aims to fully separate public and private services. In other words, the patient is still not insured, but the institution to which the OEP pays every month all the money, from which there is a need to provide care for the patients in the region, but is also able to provide nothing. Institutions should not have any extra income from this, i.e. they are worse financially, and patients who are willing to pay for it cannot obtain a well-functioning care at a given time. In our opinion, this could be well considered and politically tried to start differently if the government does not provide the patient, it does not deal with the patient, but only by cutting off the cost of public funding and forcing patients into the private sector. This could be a big risk in diagnostics. Several sections essentially continue the same points, the patient in any way? Could it have been for a detailed fee so far? do not deviate from the referral order. So the situation we have just described can take place. Part Three, 118. In its section on the identification, designation and protection of critical systems and installations, the 2012 CLXVI. The Annex to the Act would be amended. This means selling pharmaceuticals, which in Hungarian, if we understand correctly, wants to nationalise wholesalers. Again, this could be a reason to think, because it could be a conceptual mistake, that it could be subject to state control and that the rules of competition should be removed from everything, and that maintaining a monopoly for the government might not be the luckiest way to go. However, we have seen this in many areas, but this should certainly be a matter of reflection. To sum up the impressions of these points and some other modified sections, a much greater state control and much more stringent cost control are achieved by bringing patients into the private sector, destroying some operators. So these were the points in which we would follow a different direction in his impressions. I would like to say two more things to the Secretary of State, if I may abuse your patience a little more. One was that it was the government and its predecessor, the second Orbán Cabinet, that created the legal background for giving birth outside the institution of professional assistance. Despite all this, nothing has happened to date regarding the practical implementation of this. Not only did the training of midwives not start in Hungary, but the working conditions of practicing midwives have also been made impossible, and there are many examples in Western Europe that funding from the state-funded care system can be made available without further delay in childbirth outside the institute, so that there is a source of professional assistance. At the moment, we see no government effort to do so, although the spirit of the legislation, which was adopted by the second Orbán Cabinet, should provide the basis for the establishment of a system of non-professional birth in Hungary. [[22.50]] In this case, we would be happy if the legislation were to make a practical commitment, such as the initial steps to create the house of birth and the reference network, and it would be possible for specialists with great experience, obstetrics and gynecology practice to choose a background for out-of-institutional professional assistance, rather than being persecuted members of the medical community. The inclusion of everything in the legislation would be a fundamental issue, and it would be very, very important that adequate social security funding is also available for this. Last but not least, I would like to point out to the Honourable Secretary of State that I am experiencing it on a number of points? I'm a countryman, you know? That a citizen of Túrkeve has a lower value in many respects than a capital city, in terms of health care, this is felt many times. The hospital of many neighbouring settlements has suffered a great deal of austerity over the last decade, and the system of health care and medical care is increasingly concentrated in the county seat. I have tabled a number of budgetary amendments that would help finance rural specialist benefits, which would help small settlements to provide specialist care, but a good part of them are still circulating in the system, which did not come to my own committee, and I have not seen its application. We would be pleased if they not only dealt with improving health at a legislative level, but also created a financial background for this and used substantial resources in the country's budget to improve the quality of services and not only the legislative framework but also the financial background for these efforts that the government has set out. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary and thank you very much, Mr. President. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2014-12-01-281	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were made, and the general debate is closed. I'll give the floor to the author. Secretary of State Gábor Zombor.
u2014-12-01-282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the specific professional contributions and the professional debate. I believe that, in this cooperation, in this climate, we can jointly take on and pursue matters in relation to health that are important to all of us. I have written down and, in fact, consider all proposals as appropriate. Perhaps I would refer the voice of Congressman Ikotity to the less professional, but he is his troubles, and Baja may be my dearest city, so I would not be particularly responsive to him right now. On the way back, some of the points that have appeared in most of the speeches are: it is a matter of private supply and public supply. If you read the current legislation a little bit, my fellow Members, you will see that the previous health insurance law has given virtually full authorisation for the development of so-called mixed or paid care in hospitals. In fact, it was possible to charge and collect a fee for everything. Even so? And I'm asking you to believe me because I know the system? a fraction of the hospital's operating costs have come from these other services which have now been so-called "feared." These are the rates I can give you: 18-20 billion forints per year, maximum 60-80 million forints per year. So the authorisation of the entire previous health insurance law has, by the way, taken the matter into the direction of gratuity money. Hospitals didn't take this option at all. I think that, as a basic principle, a line should be drawn that, for the benefit of insured persons, it is possible to ask for extra money or not. It is worth mentioning the example that if someone has paid the contribution for 40 years, then when they reach the age of 70, and the diseases come, they cannot pay extra money for the care, so they are included in the normal course of the system; or someone who, let's say, has not paid for social security in his life, suppose that they were logged in on a minimum wage and, say, paid a monthly contract fee of HUF 6340 for 6 months, and then uses it because they can put HUF 200,000 into the system and buy their own extra opportunity, the possibility of a previous recovery. This is the contradiction that the system cannot resolve, and that is why it is worth drawing the line. The second question is whether the institutions are able to provide other benefits, mainly to pay benefits, at the expense of their free capacity. In the case of an institution with a waiting list, it is difficult to talk about free capacity. So this fundamental contradiction is also worth resolving. I do not want to waste time with this, I do quite a lot of work on this issue, and I also see the possibility that the fears that are said here will not be real at a later stage, and doctors and institutions will also have the opportunity to supplement their income. This would be worth discussing at a committee meeting, at an extended meeting or even here, because it is a long-term professional issue. Perhaps even so much about chambers that all three chambers asked for this amendment, because they felt they could not go through with their own electoral process. That is why we tried to help them in this regard, since 50 percent plus 1 seemed a little excessive. I would like to thank Mr Sebestyén Csító for the proposal on the special right to practice with regard to large institutions. Maybe we should talk about how to do this, because it's got a fantasy. There is also a request not only to have the status of a full-time doctor, but also to be able to perform specialist care, so they can also conclude a contract for professional care at the boarding facility. It is a very big problem that there are many types of social housing in hospitals, which, in many cases, could also be provided in the institutions. Since my fellow socialists are not here, I will say what I would like to say at another time. [[Nándor Gúr, standing from the notary's seat: I'm here!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I've got tube vision. I'd like to say that the waiting lists are down. It is very important that they are at all registered because they were not previously registered. [[23.00]] We didn't know what was going on. There are very interesting differences between hospitals. One has the same waiting list and the other doesn't. It's not just about the money. By the way, hospitals are now receiving a waiting list reduction additional source in the order of HUF 1 billion; they have already received it. I think it's gonna be nice and manageable. About the wages. 79 billion HUF wage increases have been added to the system, and I think that if this can be continued at this rate, it will be a solution in the longer term. It is certain that discrimination causes tension between non-healthy people, i.e. non-patient bed workers and technical and other servers, so this is a task to be solved in the coming period. The question of withdrawal and withdrawal is an old basic argument as to what happened in the system, because, let's say, if I look at the drug support system, what it is: if medicines are cheaper, it is quite difficult to talk about withdrawal in the system. I would like to thank you very much for the support of the comments on the main directions, on the basic supply, on the possibilities of keeping young specialists at home, as this is of great importance in the coming period, that the European trend, which, by the way, represents a continuous orientation from east to west, from west to north, and from the north to overseas, is not only Hungary struggling with this problem, but everyone? There's only one person who can make it easier to replace it because he has the power to absorb it himself. In Hungary, since when did Hungarian doctors in Transylvania and Transcarpathia practically run out? Or thank God they went back to Transylvania? This makes it more difficult to do so, which is why we need to take every opportunity to keep young people at home and make them attractive to care here. It is not simple, it is not a day or two and it is a matter to be done, but with their support and support from Parliament, I think we can move forward on this issue. We are looking forward to the amendments, and I will also offer you a personal consultation in any way, because these are important issues for which we would like as many good proposals as possible to be included in the law. Once again, thank you very much for the professional debate. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-01-283	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Gábor Zombor. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Representative László Varju applied for a speech after today's agenda:. Is the state a better owner? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2014-12-01-284	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Over the past few years, motorists have benefited from the decline in energy prices, and consequently, petrol has become cheaper, but there are still people in the country who benefit from it. In recent times, we have learned from many places, but most recently from a Swiss newspaper that he has built an offshore web and cooperates with the company MOL Energy Trading, MET, who can rely on the benefits of this. The point is that they buy cheaper than the price of Russian gas on the international market, and all of this is sold in Hungary. So, the difference in the price of the gas received comes down to one of those companies? At this company you mentioned? the ownership of which is significantly unknown. This unknown also means and stems from the fact that there are several offshore companies in this circle, so there are a number of questions: the government's pursuit of not doing business with companies with such backgrounds, while a state-owned company does the opposite. In fact, this is done in such a way that this could have happened at all, not only from the price, but from the fact that the Minister responsible for the Government has given permission to use the pipe network on which the transport takes place. Using these two? the possibility of the price and the use of the pipe? made it possible to produce HUF 50 billion in a year. During this one year, however, István Garancsi, who is among the Hungarian owners, has appeared in addition to the unknown owners in the past period; he is known as the owner of the Videoton football club. But he is also involved in other businesses, and in this sense he is also a beneficiary, for example, of stadium construction. But since then? perhaps as a result of this favorable business opportunity? It also becomes a power plant owner, because the one hundred-halombatta power plant, previously used by former owners, let's just say that it could have been used only under limited conditions, now it seems that it can be purchased, perhaps from this result. It is therefore appropriate to ask a number of questions which, in this case or in such circumstances, I think can be formulated. Since it can be justified that MVM is losing billions of forints a year because of the involvement of the intermediate trader, and therefore, instead of essentially the result of the state, will it be passed on to a private company, so that the Hungarian budget and Hungarian citizens will lose the option of buying less than the price level of Russian gas? Is this for 2015 anyway? I mean, shouldn't that be a mistake? This could result in another HUF 50 billion result, while MVM will be eliminated, while in the budget law submitted this year MVM will have to receive a state aid of HUF 50 billion. It seems that here, through the offshore knights, the Hungarian state offers new opportunities to enjoy the results and opportunities of all the things that otherwise arise in the economy. I think that it is therefore appropriate for the government to answer the questions asked to the Prime Minister. I'm looking forward to this in the near future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-01-285	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. The speaker after the next agenda is Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik:, Somogyország eliminates itself, or the population disaster of Somogy county is VII.
u2014-12-01-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Respecting the Hungarian eclipse in Somogy County a century ago, local politicians and public figures, Bálint Arany, Reformed teacher of Rinyaújlak, Count Aladár Széchenyi or Dezső Varga, Reformed minister of Darány, must be told that there is no chance of avoiding demographic catastrophe without a radical turn in the population. [[23.10]] The problem of ageing, the closely linked population depletion and the issue of ethnic restructuring, which follows directly from this, will also determine the fate of our communities. Therefore, in view of the available data of the 2011 census, we believe it is absolutely justified to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the current situation of our counties, cities and villages and of the projected population vision for two to four decades, taking into account the current trends. Knowledge of the dynamics of these processes would be essential due to the planning of the future, territorial development, specific features and tasks related thereto, such as the planning of the strategy to be developed to address the situation of education or unemployment. Without revealing a true ethnic picture of education, labour and social tasks, genuine confrontation and constructive solution to the relevant problems cannot be successful. I am not one of you, if you think that giving birth at a young age and giving birth to a great deal of poverty with the courageous statement of cultural right and value, a few years ago the words of the Roma expert István Forgács, who drew a liberal fatva, an angry excommunication on his head, but who truly thinks his sincere sentences, can also be a support. Let's see what he said in the issue of the Hungarian Nation on 19 April 2014, in his article "People from Far away": "But is there anything amazing?" said István Forgács? We don't have any real data on them, so it's really hard to start. We would need a very thorough background knowledge and a repository to say, for example, that there are 60-70 settlements in Borsod now where there should be immediate intervention, because the local school system and the social care system will soon be unable to cope with their tasks. You should know how many schoolchildren will be in the village in 3 years, how much can we provide further training in the larger settlements nearby. in Somogy or in the other counties of South Transdanubia this may be different? Do the politicians authorized to lead know exactly how many municipalities in these counties should be involved immediately? Unfortunately, no. It is true that the regions of North-East Hungary, which often seem to be explosive, are far away, but it is no harm to be accused of racism again, but I am only angry at you by the Gypsy expert on the attitude of József Attila, not against you, and would you remind me once again that the Jobbik? Is there anything to be said for the slander we've been subjected to? He approaches the problem with such sincere words, but also with humane constructivism. What did István Forgács say? We're having a calm time, but let's just say we're in luck. At any time the tension may increase, there will be those who are interested in inciteing hunger riots... and my fellow Members, there will be no doubt that our good friends trained in Syria will play this card when it comes to it. Restoring demographic balance must be seen as the most secure investment invested in the future of society. To address the deep socio-economic crisis, which has developed and deepened before our eyes, we must first face the very devastating facts, because diagnosis and effective therapy cannot be established without it. Ladies and gentlemen, For the seventh time in my series of speeches after the agenda, I have dealt with the population agonies of the most rarely inhabited county in Hungary. With a geographical, historical outlook, I was trying to support the very important issue that was discussed here. In the light of statistical figures, new questions arise, such as what kind of economic and social system it is that produces such disappointing series of data, but it will be about this on another occasion. Thank you for your patience, your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-01-287	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik, applied for a speech with the title Kisalföld, as a possible new tourist destination. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-01-288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In this late hour, I asked for the opportunity to speak after the agenda because I wanted to share a vision with you. I would like to include you in the situation of my smaller country, the Kisaland, and in particular, I would like to discuss the issues of tourism. We all know that tourism is much less than an instrument for economic recovery in Hungary and in Kisalföld, and that it has a much smaller role than in other European states with similar talents or even worse abilities, and there are many sets of data available for this. This is why it is important to draw attention here to the fact that, indeed, there are several areas of our country, several areas that can compete with our fellow Western European competitors, with proper thinking and appropriate development opportunities. If we are talking about tourist destinations, then perhaps all of us will be among the first to jump into the Tuscan countryside or, if we turn to Hungary, the region of Lake Balaton, but also show positive signs of Budapest or Tisza Lake and the areas connected to it, but even the South Great Plain has an attraction that it can exploit, and with proper thinking and development it can be a serious vision. However, I am saddened to find that my narrower country, the Kisaland, is significantly behind in this. Although Győr and Sopron produce an increase in tourism in a better year, a comprehensive vision, a vision that would be needed to combine the benefits and to use them in a sustainable way to improve the quality of life of local people, we are very far from it. However, the Szigetköz can be found in this narrow area, among other things, if I may mention some of the important advantages or opportunities that we all think about, when we are talking about Szigetköz, fishing tourism could be highlighted here, but even a small segment such as the old art of the gold wash, which many would like to know to this day. The kayak-kenu opportunities and opportunities in ecotourism could also be linked to the Szigetköz. The Rábaköz is also a large geographical unit of my county, where the promotion of folk fruitry, folk traditions and the food industry based on local food could give an extra boost to this destination. Hanság is also nearby, here too the natural values, forestry, which may need to be put more emphasis on and channeled into a unified picture. Lake Fertő: I would also like to highlight the traditions of nadification, the bird world, the possibility of fishing and, of course, not the industrial size of fishing, but the presentation of a kind of culture-preserving folk fishing. But here's the sailing opportunity, cycling around the lake, here you can flash a cross-border opportunity. Bakony is also located nearby, hiking, horse racing programs, wall climbing, hunting, a lot of programs that are all, I think, to color the rise of one of these units and provide an opportunity for everyone to find their entertainment within this area. If we move to the cities, Győr must be highlighted as the county seat. Here, the downtown itself shows a great value, the festivals and the zoo may even be the attractions that I have to highlight, which are already running well today. In the case of Sopron, we all remember wine for the first time, and here the city itself and the viewers, which is worth mentioning, there are many forms of active rest in the region. In Mosonmagyaróvár, Futura is worth highlighting, or even the model exhibition, which is already world famous. In Csorna the thermal, which is noteworthy, but there are several other development options, as well as in Kapuvár the local products and perhaps the legends of Hany Istók could benefit from more. I could say the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd, Nagycenken the Széchenyi Castle, but the shooters, stakes and intestinal regions all have the important local specialty to form a valuable part of such a destination. And what does that take? In addition to civic professionalism and public engagements, I think it would be very important for politicians to define the vision of this region, not against each other, in their own political interests, but to achieve these goals by bringing together a common dream. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[23.20]]
u2014-12-01-289	Thank you, Mr Hungarian Congressman. Post-Monday post with the title of Vácsó Sebestyén Jobbikós, Member of the European Parliament, "The Fatal Step After Millions." You have the floor.
u2014-12-01-290	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In Hungary, a large part of the people, if they hear a beautiful Gyimes folk song starting on a road, in the adaptation of the Muzsikás ensemble, they don't think of the landscape unit, but of three great films, "The One Million Steps in Hungary" and "The One Million Steps in Hungary" and "The Wheels and Steps" documentary about nature. The dreamer of these and the creator of the first two parts was Pál Rockenbauer, who recently had his anniversary: on November 26, 1987, during a lone tour, he self-handedly ended his life at the foot of Mount Naszály. There are still unclear questions about the cause of his death, and we can hear from many sources that he was also ill, so he struggled with depression, there are also personal problems, but one of the main problems was that although he was an expert in his own nature film and documentary genre, here in Hungary, within the circumstances of Magyar Television, he was very often impossible and could only create the two, unforgettable and very valuable, even two of his programmes at that time. Born in 1933 in Budapest, he obtained a degree in geography biology at ELTE, worked at the Hungarian Television since 1956, mainly in creating and creating documentary films on natural topics, and then, of course, managed them. Very few people in Hungary know that they have made such documentary films abroad on many occasions, and very few are aware that the international profession, the natural film industry and the natural documentary industry have expressed great appreciation for them and have seen these documentary films made abroad with great appreciation. But in Hungary we know it primarily because of the films mentioned above, which he made in the early and late 1980s. Another million steps in Hungary in 1986, unfortunately the presentation of this was not worth it. We learned a lot from these films, I could say that my generation too, and fortunately, thanks to the constant repetitions, many generations grew up on this. Through this, a lot of people began to show interest in nature, and let us not forget that apart from the introduction of natural values and wildlife, in these programs they constantly took care to present historical monuments, as well as built monuments. And let us not forget that, if I may mention my own hobbies, ethnography, ethnography, with a lot of information, were made at the very last moment, either by an episode or a scene in which he presented his own craft or the ethnographic values of his own residence, and by doing so he did an irreplaceable saving of value in this area. I believe that he is one of those people with this initiative and with the introduction of the previously unknown genre, by creating these special programmes, he has listed himself among those people who, as educators of the people, in the noble sense of the word, are called teachers of the people and teachers of the people. It preserved a lot of value, transmitted a lot of value, drew people's attention to a lot of value, and has opened up many young people's interest in either natural values or the aforementioned values. That's why, even around the anniversary of his birth, around January 14th, even? as in this case? At the time of the anniversary of his death, around November 26th, we do have to bow our heads to him. By the way, his colleagues did this, because in 1978 he participated in the creation of the Natura Editorial Office within Magyar Television, which was responsible for creating and creating natural films and documentary films, and therefore, on the 70th anniversary of the birth of his late colleagues, a memorial plaque was inaugurated in his former residence, which was intended to commemorate him. That is why I urge everyone to remember him and bow to his memory near the anniversary of his death and birth. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2014-12-01-291	Thank you very much, Congressman Cutter Sebestyén. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. What about the two language schools? Mr István Ikotity, Member of the LMP, asked to speak after the agenda. You have the floor.
u2014-12-01-292	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, The May Other in Politics is very concerned about the transformation of the education system. During the last government cycle, a number of knowledge reduction measures have been taken, the age limit for compulsory education has been reduced, vocational training time has been reduced, the teaching of public knowledge has been reduced, the new national basic curriculum looking into the past has been introduced, and the doors of higher education have been narrower. In parallel to the missed steps, HUF 250 billion was withdrawn from the operation and maintenance of the education system. It seems that the past, as the negative trends towards the East continue to continue after the elections. Several times they scared the foundation schools, and next year's budget proposal gave them the creeps again. With a detailed examination of the salad law on which the budget is based, the danger is unfortunately still not over. In the future, even less guarantees will ensure that they receive the same amount of funds to pay teachers' wages as other schools. They're planning to reduce the number of high school seats. It has also been found that, unlike the original promises, teachers do not receive automatic wage increases either. After the spring elections, the LMP feels that the creation of a work-based society created by Viktor Orbán has given new impetus. From the education system, all elements that would lead to an increase in knowledge differing from nationalised, centralised logic, which represents a different quality. The indications are clear. Now it looks like they're targeting the two language schools. It's not the first time this has happened, they've been trying to evacuate them two years ago, we remember it well. At that time, the draft regulation envisaged the prohibition of the teaching of mathematics and history in the target language of objects. Now, what we're talking about would really make these innovative workshops impossible. Due to the characteristics of the language foundation class, it is not possible to meet the new condition that at least 80 percent of the students enrolled for the academic year will stay to graduate at the same institution at the time of the start of the course. Furthermore, despite the above-average language skills of these students, 90 percent of them may not be able to pass the language exam or a higher level of graduation. Not because he doesn't know, but because he doesn't want to, for example, because of the calculation of admission scores. Or maybe the best ones don't graduate from home anymore, but they graduate from one of the foreign institutions. The above-mentioned administrative requirements set out quantitative criteria for which the two language schools cannot meet. It's not because they're bad, or the students here wouldn't do well enough. On the contrary, they're doing too well. In particular, they perform well because it is not true for these types of institutions that only the children of the elite are received, and often the opposite is true. Dear House, According to the LMP, the criteria for two language schools are unfulfilled and may lead to the termination of such institutions in the short term. If the government really wants to regulate the training in two language high schools, then instead of quantitative, set qualitative criteria. It would be even better for them not only to think about administrative tightening, but also in meaningful education policy steps and in increasing resources. But no matter what the government does, I want you to check with the actors in the area, especially those involved. We have seen many times that decisions are made over everyone's head. It is unacceptable that the two language schools could only be informed of their new operating conditions from the relevant government decree. However, in the present case, the LMP is trying to approach the problem in good faith. Let us hope that they did not purposely aim to make these institutions impossible, perhaps they were just not thoughtful enough. They did not see that the imposition of new conditions for graduation would be unfulfilled for these institutions. [[23.30]] Maybe someone or someone at the Ministry made a mistake. Mistakes may occur, but they can be corrected in time. It is not too late now, it is possible to change the provisions that seriously put two schools at a disadvantage. It's a question of whether they'll do it. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-12-01-293	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr Sallai Benedek, Mr LMP, will be able to make a statement after the agenda:. It doesn't matter who keeps the flock.
u2014-12-01-294	Thank you very much, Mr. President. And it doesn't matter. I'm not interested in education policy, and it's an accident that I'm going to talk a little bit about education policy. Now, in the course of last week, Hungary's training, called a relatively strange one, was completed. At the University of Debrecen, the University of Kaposvár and the University of Szeged, this training started in September in the form of a 3-month training course for shepherds. The amazing thing about this topic is that the Hungarian government has set the restoration of Hungarian livestock farming from the resources of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, it intends to allocate substantial resources to increase the proportion of livestock farms with high employment needs, and to create extensive grazing methods throughout the Hungarian countryside, but at the same time we need to see our traditional professions disappear. The local knowledge that once defined their daily lives disappears from local communities. Pastoral tradition disappears, the skills of goulashes, shepherds, and gymnastics disappear, and now we don't even know that we're going to call in some help from Szeklerland because there's no help left. The aim of keeping animals is not to have the appropriate training material. I tell you frankly that in one part of my speech, I wanted to talk about the knowledge society, because I had a very, very hard time fighting it, and I considered it very, very hurtful when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, to the needs of the knowledge society, that Hungary needs a work-based society, not people in white coats and glasses who do not promote work. It has been a very, very hurtful thought by the Prime Minister, and I have been planning on speaking for this once since, for this reason, to point out the true way of a knowledge-based society. Because this training, which has now been completed, is an example of how a work-based society can be achieved by providing expertise and, whatever profession it is, creating a background for, as far as possible, access to all the modern knowledge backgrounds that those working in it need in the course of today. The sheep training at the relevant universities obviously did not take place at the Faculty of Msc or Bsc of the Bologna Process, but a certificate could be obtained by sheep farmers or farmers who plan to keep sheep in the future in order to get to know at all the modern feeding; they could learn about the nature-friendly farming methods in Natura 2000 areas; they would be given an account of how online obligations related to ear numbers and animal registration can be met in today's world's terribly complicated animal farming system. They had knowledge of how to apply for various animal-related subsidies, and obviously they had access to traditional animal-keeping knowledge, animal health, inseminator activities. It follows that this kind of training, which provides practical knowledge, encourages theoretical knowledge and relies on real needs, could be the future of a knowledge-based society that Hungary should take substantial steps to build instead of taking funds out of this area. The direction of adult education that gives us the opportunity to regain the knowledge of traditional professions that create the roots of the Hungarian countryside; that is still available in order to get to know the professional background of these traditional professions. There are not only old shepherds who can teach, but they are ethnographic descriptions, people who have described all the pranks of these professions, and this has practically not been included in modern-day vocational training or vocational secondary school training. There is no professional shepherding training in Hungary, just as there is no animal training that would give you sufficient knowledge to manage on your own. We don't train entrepreneurs. We do not train people to be self-employed and therefore not only have the right to such training, but also to be disseminated and supported in an extraordinary way. The Hungarian media and commercial radio programmes have been playing a lot of fun during this training, when it started to raise shepherding training to university level. We are over the first tour, and now, practically, except for Kaposvár, the courses have been completed in both places, with very, very effective, good practice. I would therefore like to thank the three higher education institutions that have taken up the walls of Parliament and the Hungarian Sheep and Goat Association, who have set the goal of bringing these traditional knowledge and modern skills together to the keepers of animals. I wanted to thank you for this speech. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-01-295	Thank you, Congressman Sallai. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the Parliament meeting at 9:00 a.m. I wish you a restful good night. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 23:36 p.m.]]
