u2014-06-06-0	Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Dear Parliament, On 17 April 1934, László Almássy, the Speaker of the House, held the meeting as follows: " Dear House of Representatives, I present to the House the invitation of the Count István Tisza Memorial Committee, which invites the House to its unveiling ceremony to be held on the 22nd of the month of Count István Tisza's memorial statue. In the name of the House, I will personally place the wreath on the statue, which 16 years after its martyrdom the great son of the nation was graced. I would ask Members of Parliament to present as many as possible at the Memorial Statue's unveiling ceremony. " Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to invite all Members of the Parliament, all members of the government to take an oath today and all our compatriots to the inauguration of the rebuilt statue of the Tisza, which will take place, not on the day of the previous plans, but on Monday at 10 a.m. on 9 June, due to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's urgent visit to Ukraine. Dear House, In a tragically difficult time, the former Speaker and Prime Minister István Tisza's life was wiped out by the same barbaric rage and hatred that ultimately sought to wipe out the past, which also destroyed his statue, indicating the coming of another dark age. The restoration of the statue is not only a gesture of grace, but also an expression of - in opposition to any kind of extreme current that wanted to make us rootless and want to make us in this world - we Hungarians today do not want to wipe out the past, but we want to regain our right of self-determination over our own history, claiming to be our own, to understand it, to learn from it, to gain real self-knowledge and moderate self-esteem for the future generations. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the agreement reached in the House Committee, speeches before the agenda will not take place today. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The House Committee has put forward its proposal on the agenda. Dear House, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, It's time for the ministers to take their vows. Allow me to extend my compliments to President János Áder , Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause.) , President Paul Schmitt (Applause) , Former Prime Minister Péter Boross (Applause.) , Attorney General Péter Polt (Applause) and Mr.József Kászon-Kövendi, bishop of the Hungarian Church of Unitarian Church in Hungary. (Applause. ) I welcome representatives of Hungarian communities abroad, members of the diplomatic body, Hungarian Members of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of the National Assembly, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press, and everyone who is monitoring today. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the candidates for ministers have been heard by the relevant parliamentary committees, supported by their appointment. According to Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, ministers are appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister. President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of ministers to the President of the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2014-06-06-1	" To Mr. László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, pursuant to Article 9 (4) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Minister of Interior, Dr. Sándor Pintér, Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, Dr. Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, Dr. Csabat Hende, Minister of Defence, Dr. László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, Dr. Tibor Navracsics, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, Dr. Miklós Seszták, Minister of National Development, and János Lázár Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office with effect of 6 June 2014. Budapest, 5 June 2014 Sincerely: János Áder, President of Hungary. " [[11.20]]
u2014-06-06-2	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the ministers' presentation. I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to introduce the members of his government. [[Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will take the speaker's stand.]]
u2014-06-06-3	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable President of the Republic. Mr. President Schmitt! Prime Minister Lords! Our World and Church Overlords! We are here today on the occasion of the establishment of the tenth government following the restoration of our national independence and freedom. I respectfully report to the Members of Parliament that, in accordance with the constitutional order, after my election, I have asked the members of the future government. They were heard and supported by the competent committees of the Parliament. This established a solid legislative framework for the work of ministers. The members of the government took over their appointment papers from the President of the Republic today. So they are ready to take their vows as ministers before you. Mr President, I can form a government for the third time from the confidence of the Hungarian electorate myself, and in addition, in the last quarter of a century, I have been able to monitor the work of all governments closely, and I have been able to derive useful moral and practical experience from their operation. With due moderation, but without false modesty, I say that 24 years of experience already gives us the opportunity to shape the tenth government of free Hungary on the basis of matured criteria, with clear goals and clear expectations. My starting point was that the Hungarian electorate chose unity for the second time and gave exceptionally great authority to the same political trend. The government of Hungary must therefore lead a united and strong nation on the path on which it started four years ago. According to the public will expressed on 6 April, the country must maintain a strong and decisive direction in the previous cycle. Our goal is for the government that is now being formed to be an EPP government and to be governed by the EPP. This is more than compliance with the rules of democracy. EPP government is based on the classic idea of Lincoln: " The people, the people, for the people. " So, on the basis of the authority given to us by the people, we want to govern with the people, in the interests of the people. Dear House, This perception rejects eliteism. In response, this policy is considered populism by the elites. These are well-known dance moves. We know that in building a fair and competitive Hungary, we need - indefinitely we need - outstanding skulls, prestigious professionals. We know that we need to incorporate a lot of knowledge and experience into the system of government work. We also know that Hungary needs courageous and innovative ideas. However, outstanding capacity, high school and recognised expertise alone do not provide a legal basis for participation in government power, nor does it provide a legal basis for participation in government work, i.e. it does not provide a legal basis for leading the country. We need elites, but no elitist government. The government must do its work on the basis of popular authority, for national purposes and on the basis of people. This is the essence of popular policy and popular governance. Dear House, It follows from what has been said that the two-thirds mandate confirms that the government must always serve the three-thirds in every situation. You know my understanding that the winner is not right, but his task. The greater the authority, the greater the task and responsibility. The greater the responsibility, the greater the humility of the whole country. [[11.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Moreover, for the first time in a long time, we can say that this government represents the entire Hungarian nation, because it was also empowered not only by Hungarian people living in the motherland, but also in the Carpathian Basin and beyond. Therefore, we can expect all members of the government - and I ask you, Members of Parliament, to take on this historic responsibility, i.e. anything and anyone to stand up for the Hungarians, to stand up for the entire Hungarian nation. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarians voted for the middle forces with an overwhelming majority. They did this not only in the parliamentary elections, but also in the European Parliament elections. Therefore, today's governing forces can rightly be called the European centre. In the middle's name, if necessary, we will definitely take action against all extremes, whether they come from the right or from the left. In my opinion, the majority has the right to defend themselves against extremes and, at the same time, the obligation to protect minorities at the same time. I therefore ask the members of the government to act consistently and with sufficient force against all extremist and dangerous policies. Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that it is a weak and immoral government that is idly watching conscientiously acting, the law-abiding people doing wrong, while the unscrupulous, the Pharisees, and the outlaws do good and take advantage. With caution, common sense, respect for personal dignity, but also the government must play a role in shaping the moral quality of the public states in the country. We all want to live in a country where people recognize each other's work and merit, and even where people encourage and encourage one another; where they do not allow pettyness, narrow-mindedness and pettyness to pull back their more capable, more accomplished and more willing fellows. In other words, we want a Hungary in which the appreciation of work and performance and the culture of respect prevail. I ask you, the members of the future government, to always be more stringent in this regard than against others. We've been rushing our heads for years now about the magnitude and speed of the changes that are taking place in the world. These years lead us to a new era of history. It's natural that trees don't always show the forest. And if someone, us, Members, and especially the government, is in the midst of changes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these changes will be faster over the next four years. This will also be the case in the fields of technology, science and world politics. Fear of change and hope for change are also present. Some countries are more afraid. Studying their competitiveness may not be without a reason. And there are countries who are hoping, who are seriously looking forward to changing the world. Some people do this for a good reason. Hungary seems to be one of them. I am convinced that, thanks to the efforts and performance of Hungarian people in recent years, Hungary is facing a new and hopeful era. We are no longer looking at the crisis and at the back of other countries. Mr President, Ladies and Gentlemen, The past four years were a time of great and courageous thought. Instead of capitalism, it is a work-based economy, rather than fragmentation, citizenship and national reunification, instead of a liberal political system, a national political system, instead of value-freeness, the right to reinstate Christian culture, instead of liberal morality, an unconditional respect for human dignity. Dear House, For this reason, the four years ahead will no longer be a time of great thought, but an era of great deeds. The structure of the future's thinking is solid and even constitutional. Now action will be needed, brave and ambitious action and opportunity. Ladies and Gentlemen, Everything I have said means that the work of the members of the current government will be more difficult than that of the previous government. The bar is higher. And trying tasks require heavy-duty and high-tenacity people. We now need members of the government to bear the weight and responsibility placed on their shoulders by the Hungarian electorate, who are humbly approaching their task and sticking to our common goals. Dear House, I asked Mihály Varga to continue the work and serve the Hungarian people as the Minister of National Economy of the EPP government. We expect him to build a work-based economy and, as a result, to have full employment. I also ask that the European Central Bank prepare the Hungarian economy for the consequences of yesterday's historic decisions. We wish the Minister good luck with his work. [[Michael Varga stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Tibor Navracsics will take care of foreign affairs and foreign affairs. Dear House, We want a line guide that will make all major foreign powers interested in the success of Hungarians. We expect you to develop a system of contacts so that all major players in world politics are interested in increasing Hungary's strength, weight and influence. I know that the development of such a foreign and foreign policy strategy requires a feat. That's why we asked you. I wish the Minister good luck with this task. [[Dr. Tibor Navracsics stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Mr László Trócsányi, former Ambassador of Hungary to Paris, will lead the newly created judicial wallet. As the Minister of Justice of the People's Party Government, we expect him to defend Hungary's constitutional identity in the international space and to contribute to the restoration of public confidence in our judicial system. Welcome to the government, Minister. [[Dr. László Trocsányi stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Mr President, I asked Mr Sándor Pintér, as Minister of the Interior of the EPP government, to continue with unbroken determination the work he started in 1998. We expect you to ensure the safety of everyday life as the main guardian of public order. [[Foreman Novak: In two weeks!]] Please be tough, unbending and just. Ensure that the rights of criminals are never prevented by law-abiding citizens and victims. We ask you to do everything you can to ensure that no one in Hungary has to be afraid. I wish you much strength and good health for your work. [[Dr. Sándor Pintér stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Congressman Miklós Seszták will undertake to run the Ministry of National Development. As you know, this Ministry is a fighting place; it is a popular target of attention and attacks. This is where a substantial part of the state's wealth is guarded, where transport, energy supply and information communication are developed. We ask you to preserve and increase national wealth, help reindustrialise the country and help build a new economy. We expect you to prove that the state can be a good farmer and that it is able to keep Hungarian resources within the Hungarian economy. Welcome to the government. [[Dr. Miklós Seszták stands up. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A rare applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] I have asked Mr Zoltán Balog to continue the enormous work he has done in recent years as Minister of Human Resources. We expect you, Minister, to direct all possibilities and energies concentrated in your ministry in a way that will ultimately strengthen the Hungarian families. [[11.40]] We expect you to have the policy to stop and reverse painful population processes. This is the modern form of national rescue. For the sake of all of us, we wish you many and swift success. [[Zoltán Balog stands up. Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] I asked our fellow Member Sándor Fazekas to continue his efforts to preserve the Hungarian land in recent years. We expect you, Minister, to find a way for Hungarian farmers to cultivate the Hungarian land. In the previous cycle, we decided on a centuries-old Hungarian fate issue: who should own the Hungarian land? Eighty percent small and medium estate, 20 percent large estate. That's the decision we've made, and that's what the land law serves. I ask you, Minister, also to adapt the agricultural and rural support system to this verdikt we have taken. We wish the Minister good work. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas stands up. Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] I asked Mr Csaba Hende to continue his work as Minister of Defence in 2010. The current world force shift has serious military and military consequences. Every day, the pressure from NATO is increasing to increase our military spending. We expect nothing less from you, Minister, than to find the location of the Hungarian Defence and Defence Forces in the 21st century. International cooperation systems in the 21st century. Please do not lower the success that the Hungarian soldiers have achieved in fulfilling our allied obligations in recent years. I wish you much strength and good health for your work. [[Dr. Csaba Hende stands up. Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Mr President, Dear House, In 1998 and 2010, when our previous two governments were formed, I tried to combine the government's work with different methods, working schedules and tools, to coordinate the activities of ministers and their ministries. I did not feel that any of the solutions could or should not be changed. We are trying to combine the experiences of eight years of government work in the form of the Prime Minister's Office to be established. Even effective and effective ministers and ministries do not automatically bring together good government and good government performance, which requires coherence, coordination, order and courageous initiatives. That is why I asked our fellow Member, János Lázár, to be a minister - young men in battle, old men in council! [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Prime Minister's Office is the government's nerve center. The frequency and strength of attacks against the government will prove to me his successful work, and even now it is. We'd be suspicious if the attacks were to subside. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] Moreover, everyone knows that lead and iron were actually intended for the Prime Minister to lead the Prime Minister's office. We have no reason to be surprised or resentful, because we know that this political life in Hungary has become a natural order. It's hard, but it's a good job, Minister. I'm sure you'll enjoy it on the one hand. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] On the other hand, he will end up for the good of the country. The right to do so is to gain recognition and respect as mayor, faction leader and then secretary of state. I wish you every success in your hard work. [[John Lazarus stands up. Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP. Death to the pheasants!]] Zsolt Semjén is standing before you as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister without a wallet. One of the keys to the success of the Fidesz-Christian Democrat People's Party Party Party is that the Christian democracy represented by the Christian Democratic People's Party is the anchor that keeps the government's ship in safe waters in terms of philosophy, world view and values. Congratulations on the successful national policy of the past four years, and thank you for letting me work with you again. I wish you the best of luck. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén stands up. Applause from the pro-government benches. It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, being a minister is both a mission, a profession and a job. The implementation of good governance depends on whether all members of the government understand that the Hungarian government is both a power and a responsibility. patriotism, humility, and service - this should be the guiding principle of all government members. There's nothing else. We can't have another compass. In moral terms, the members of the current Hungarian governments swear on these three principles: patriotism, humility and service. Remember, a lot of people are asked to be trusted. Soli Deo gloria - God alone has the glory. [[A long applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-06-06-4	Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 16 (8) of the Fundamental Law, I declare that, with the appointment of ministers, the Government of Hungary was established. Dear House, Now it's time for the solemn oath of the members of the government. Please stand up as usual. [[The people present will stand up. The fanfares speak, the commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the presidential pulpit, and from the centre of the Chamber requests permission from the President to import historic and national flags, who grants permission. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit. The commander of the decorative guard will take his place before the pulpit.]] Dear House, Now, I invite notary Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the Ministerial oath.
u2014-06-06-5	I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-06-06-6	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and my members of the government, to wish you effective work and good luck, good health. Dear Parliament, Now I'm going to ask the members of the government to sign the oath papers. [[11.50]] Dear House, To conclude the festive moments, please sing our national prayer together. [[The people in this room will stand up and sing the Anthem together. The fanfares speak, the commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at the sound of the fanfares. The people present will sit down. The ministers welcome the congratulations of Viktor Orbán, Antal Rogán, Lajos Kósa, Dr. János Latorcai, Péter Harrach, Dr. András Schiffer, János Volner and József Tobias.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the solemn part of our session. We will now take a five-minute break before speaking after the agenda. Thank you. (Sunning: 11.54 - 12.00) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák)
u2014-06-06-7	Dear Parliament, We now have an after-the-meet speech. Today's post - agenda address was put forward by Mr President Novak: " Trianon is only a celebration for Fidesz. " You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2014-06-06-8	Dear Parliament, " Hungarian is the one who is hurting Trianon, " says the perhaps best - known quote about the greatest tragedy in Hungary. And anyone who thinks this nation definition is exclusional may blame Gyula Illyés for this quote. Unfortunately, many consider these sincere words to be exclusional, since today we can see that Trianon does not hurt some of our fellow citizens, even on a holiday; not only for some of our fellow citizens, but also for the governing forces, because since 2010 they have transformed the Trianon Memorial Day, a day of mourning, the greatest day of mourning in Hungary, and have tried to present it as a holiday in orange. Nowadays, the MTI news is about holidays, and even on a billboard, on the billboards of an advertising company linked to Lajos Simicska, we have seen a public invitation to celebrate the day of national union. Indeed, the word "feast " appears regularly as a kind of propaganda even on billboards, while it is actually the nation's greatest day of mourning. We have accepted that, let us say, at the hearing of candidates for ministers, they tend to paint the country orange or pink - at each request - and try to paint the major tragedies, the shadowy side of the country, but it is unacceptable that Trianon's unremediated wounds are still being presented as a sort of fidesz merit. It's not like that. In fact, let me recall the processes of the last twenty-four years, because on 4 June 1990 there was a plenary session, where the newly elected Speaker, György Szabad, asked for only one minute of silent standing from the Members, and the representatives of Fidesz withdrew from this commemoration in the last five minutes. This commemoration and awareness of the fact that in the last 24 years the processes have gone wrong in the Trianon issue, not only have they not been corrected, but we can see that the commemorations have not yet succeeded with dignity. On June 4th, 2000, there was not, but on June 5th, there was a general election ceremony here in the Parliament building, and we could see that there was not even a one-minute silent standing, so the Fidesz MEPs did not have to withdraw, thanks to the then Speaker of the House, János Áder. Ten years later, however, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary appeared, mainly thanks to national radicalism and civil society organisations, and thanks to several local governments who stood behind the dignified commemoration, not only the cheap fascisting and similar chauvinisting, but also the similar stigma towards those who considered it important to remember the greatest tragedy in Hungary, but there were hundreds and thousands of Trianon memorials throughout the country in the years before 2010. As a result, and thanks to the appearance of Jobbik in Parliament, my fellow Member Zoltán Balczó presented our proposal for Trianon Memorial Day on the day of the inaugural meeting. This, of course, was swept away as usual and could have been a fidesz initiative, as we suggested, but unfortunately this did not happen. Unfortunately, they made a holiday out of the greatest tragedy of the Hungarian community, while it is not possible to remember it with dignity, as there is no state museum in Trianon, for example. At Jobbik's suggestion, the Trianon Museum in Castle Palace will receive state support, but it is not a museum of state reserve or volume such as the House of Terror or the Petőfi Literature Museum, which can demonstrate the greatest tragedy of Hungary with sufficient modernity. Unfortunately, the state aid proposal for the Trianon Museum was withdrawn last year by László L. Simon, so the creation of a single State Trianon Museum continues. And if you want to celebrate, let me recommend to you some of the scenes of Hungarian history that might be a celebration, even in Trianon's question. Such is the glorious story of the Raggedy Guard, but such can be the story of Vienna's decisions. I think he deserves fireworks, and this would be the day for Hungarians to toast, not to sink to this level like Medgyessy-Năstase-coccint. I ask you to do everything you can to change this process, and we will do everything we can to heal Trianon's wounds, because then, but only then can we ask with a calm conscience that God will give us a better future. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-06-06-9	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of today's session. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 10 June 2014, at 13 a.m. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 12:6 p.m.]]
