u2014-09-15-0	Ladies and gentlemen, The first day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be notaries Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform this House of the death of our former fellow Members, Péter Kiss and István Szűcs. Péter Kiss was a founding member of the MSZP in 1989, a Member of Parliament from 1992. He obtained a mandate in the single mandate constituency at the parliamentary elections in 1994. Between 1994 and 1995, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Sports. In 1995 he was appointed Minister of Labour of the Horn Government. In 1998 he again received an individual mandate, and until 2000 he worked as the deputy leader of the party's faction. Between 1998 and 2000, he was the party's executive vice president. He won again in his individual district in 2002. In the Medgyessy Government, he was first Minister of Employment and Labour, then in 2003 he was appointed Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. In the first Gyurcsány government, he held his ministerial position, and in the second he was first Minister of Social Affairs and Labour, and in 2007 he returned to the Prime Minister's Office again. In 2009, he was appointed Minister of Social Policy Coordination for the Bavarian Government. In 2010, he got into Parliament on the national list of MSZP. Between 2010 and 2014, he was Vice-President of the Subcommittee on European Affairs. During the 2014 parliamentary elections, he once again obtained his individual mandate in the 11th constituency of Budapest. István Szűcs was among the founders of the MDF in 1987, and later became president of the organization of 100halombatta. From 1988 he worked as a member of the party's national electoral board and then as its managing director. In 1990 he entered the Parliament from a regional list, he was first secretary of the Parliament Economic Commission until the end of 1992, and then vice-president. He resigned from office on 31 December 1992. In 1993 he became Deputy State Secretary for Energy Affairs at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In 1994 he took over the middle cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary. I would ask my fellow Members to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán asked for a speech before the agenda today: "Hungary Autumn 2014." The Prime Minister has the floor.
u2014-09-15-1	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. We last met two and a half months ago. I asked to speak to you now, at the beginning of the new session, in accordance with our constitutional customs, to inform you of what the government has done in the past period and what are the most important tasks ahead of us. We're struggling with the disturbance of abundance. As you know, the summer break of legislation for the government is not an exemption from work, because life does not stop, and important things have happened in the environment of our country. It's been a busy couple of months. By the nature of the genre, allow me to put my words to the serious questions of the race. First of all, I need to inform you about the flood situation. This morning, I listened to the reports of the Head of Disaster Management and Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is politically responsible for the resolution of disasters. The situation is as follows. During 60 days, rains over 250 mm fell, floods, inland waters, groundwater appear at the same time, and the drainage system fails to carry the water. We defend in 14 counties, 129 settlements, 287 kilometers long. 285 were deported, 120 returned; no crime was committed, and their homes could be taken over intact. Thank you for your work with the police. To help the Croatians, we sent 200,000 sandbags; and I would also like to inform you that some of the settlements that were blocked by the water could only be accessed through Slovenia. We thank Slovenia for its generous cooperation. [[13.10]] At present, we have closed down six of our settlements, 52 roads in stages, 6,000 of them are defensive, 3,000 of them are volunteers; they are now working in these hours as well. Dear House, We all know water isn't a good joke. In spring 2013, the country had to cope with the biggest flood of Danube ever. We have learned that there is no flood that can't be avoided if the country joins together. I do not think that nature will put us on the same scale this year, but from tomorrow, the centre of gravity of the threat will be shifted to the rivers Mura and Drava, on both rivers we expect to peak above the highest level ever measured. In any case, we are prepared, and if necessary, Hungary will stand the ground. I thank General Bakondi, the workers of disaster management, the employees of the municipalities concerned and the volunteers involved in the defence for their work so far. Dear House, The government has studied the Curia's decision on foreign exchange creditors. Based on the Curia's decision, we've developed a long-awaited scenario for bank accountability. I would like to thank László Trócsányi Minister of Justice and his colleagues, who have prepared the bill and government decisions. Now that the case is coming to an end, it seems right to thank my fellow Member, Antal Rogán, the Fidesz Group leader, for all the help he has given the government. We took note of the efforts made by Fidesz and Christian Democrats to keep this issue on the face of political life and public interest and to keep the hope of a just solution alive in the deceived people. It seems to me that with the bill before you, we are finally putting order in the confused relationship between the banks and the people, which has resulted in subordination and even vulnerability. Independent courts have said what many millions of people have long thought, i.e. that banks have abused their dominant position. They acted unfairly because they changed the contracts unilaterally, at the expense of the people and for their benefit. Surely you have also noticed that banks do not deny the fact of unilateral and adverse treaty amendments to people. They claim two things: that what they did was not unfair, and that this practice had not previously been challenged by law enforcement. However, the Government has accepted the Curia's arguments and judgement that the unilateral amendment of the contract is incorrect and unfair and therefore constitutes unfair practice, provided that the unilateral amendment has not satisfied specific preconditions. The accountability law sets out the procedure and calculation method by which the truth can be restored and the principle of a fair trial can be enforced. Dear House, We're used to that kind of talk. We have lived for long and long years on the one hand and on the other, everything is relative, everyone has its own truth in the world. For decades, we have confused the precondition with the goal, and often mix the device with the desired result. Easily and quickly infiltrated and deep in our minds the idea that the goal was freedom, freedom itself, and once that is done, everything is there. However, the deep Western economic crisis that is continuing has made us realise that this is not the case. Freedom is important, and freedom is essential, but it is not a goal, it is a prerequisite. The goal is a peaceful and just life. And our lives, especially our public life, will only be fair if the aim of politics is to seek the common good, to designate the common good, and to end up serving the common good. And we can create a just life by giving everyone what they deserve and doing what they can. The accountability of the banks, my fellow Members, is precisely that. Although it is money and has serious economic consequences, it is the idea of justice, the requirement of fairness and the principle of fairness that is at the heart of it. The importance of our business is historic, the action we are about to do is unprecedented, and the horizon of our decision is high above our state borders. In Hungarian economic history, there is no example that justice, that is to say, the Curia, the legislation, that is, the representatives, and the executive authority, or the government, should completely screen a system of unfair financial maneuvers against people and have the banks accounted for. [[13.20]] It hasn't been so long before what we read in romantic or utopian novels has become a reality, that being dishonest is a bad business, but being fair is a good investment. I ask this House not to be afraid of Hungarian or international pressure. Please do not waver under the weight of historical opportunity and responsibility. And I ask you not to return to where we started four years ago, not to turn back to the age that brought the country to the brink of debt slavery and hundreds of thousands of families. So please support the government's bill. There's another battlefield outside the parliament. On this battlefield, the banks have now launched a counterattack. They used a petition to the Constitutional Court, and both the Curia's decision and the bill you know were challenged. It is also true that many judicial councils acted in the same way. The lower level judicial councils dispute the constitutional foundations of the Curia's decision. It's odd, it's unusual, but it's legal. The banks and the determining judges have the right to do so. In fact, we can only approve of this, because we are not simply trying to achieve justice, we are not simply trying to win, but we want to win in a state of law and democratic battle. In fact, we want to win a sporting victory, because we expect banks to close the era of unfair lending and the era of fair banks to come. If we want a fair banking system, we should only force it in a fair fight. If we win, dear House, every single bank will pay back every single one of those unfairly stolen forints to the people. 400 financial institutions have to account for it. We are talking about the interests and rights of one million 300,000 families. There is a great deal of work ahead of Hungary, because every contract will have to be counted again, but I am convinced that the work will not be in vain, that the time and energy invested will be recovered. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is certainly a good thing that we are right, and it is a good thing that we strike a spear with fair and equitable treatment. But do we have the power to make decisions and then to enforce them if necessary? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are strong enough to do this today. Four years ago, we were weak. We barely had the strength to stand on our own. We've been working for four years to regain our country's strength. Based on the experience of these four years, I can tell you one thing: if there is a cooperation, everything is possible. And if we work together, we'll be able to keep the banks accounted for. I therefore call for the support of all my fellow Members regardless of party standing. Getting ready to fight is reasonable and justified because I can see and hear Brussels' movements. We know the weight of international financial institutions, and we also know that banks are strong, courageous and cunning in themselves. Crafty as the bat in the parable: When the birds are taxed, the bats show their teeth when they are thrown out on mice and their wings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that we will continue to reduce the costs in line with our decisions at the beginning of this year. In the third phase of the reduction, the price of electricity will be reduced by an additional 5.7 percent from 1 September, and the price of district heating will decrease by an additional 3.3 percent from 1 October. We continue to maintain our position that Hungarian people and Hungarian families will be safe if they can pay the cost of everyday living and maintaining their homes without any difficulty; if not after the children are put to sleep, they will have to abandon their important plans with a burden on the kitchen table and hours to pay for the next month's rent. Yes, the reduction is like a drop in the sea, it's all in it, it's the concentrate of our entire policy. Its foundation is simple, it is about that no one can draw seven skins from Hungarians for basic services. Hungary finally managed to get to the point that what is important to the government is what is important to the people, that is, that Hungarian families pay the lowest costs. We are on our way to our destination, my dear House. About two years ago, we Hungarians paid the most for electricity, gas and district heating in Europe compared to our income. We are now talking about the greatest reduction in the price of these services in our country. In the debates on the reduction of costs, honourable Members, we have received answers to important questions. Some feared for the ability of the economy to carry a load, and some had doubts about the sustainability of lower prices. Today, however, it has also become clear that our series of measures not only reduces the burden on Hungarian families, but is also good for the country's economy. You can see that the so-called gross domestic product has not grown in Hungary in eight years as much as in the second quarter of 2014. The Hungarian economy grew by nearly 4 percent. In an international comparison, the Hungarian economy has produced the largest growth in the European Union in six months. We have also proven that the tax reduction policy is working, with the number of economically active workers at a peak of 20 years. And we have reversed the situation so far, the common carriage is being pushed and fewer people are sitting on it today. According to the July monthly data of the Member States of the European Union, the unemployment rate in Hungary has fallen to below 8 percent in the last year. We also know from the mid-year declarations that, thanks to the family tax system, nearly HUF 100 billion more remained in the pockets of families raising children during the first half of the year. Between April and June, investments increased by about five, which proves to all of us that the growth of the Hungarian economy is based on strong foundations. The domestic industry is at its three-year peak, with more than 12 percent increase in the sector in July this year. Today, Honourable House, our goal does not seem to be to have the highest contribution of industrial production to the whole of the national product in Hungary by the end of the cycle. In addition to national economic data, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been able to change two of the pressing and many distressing phenomena of everyday life. For decades, the general view was that the daily life experience was that, despite the more people had worked, the money had been taken away by the price increase, and what was left was taken by the banks with the interest rates on upturned loans. Today, we can say to the citizens of Hungary that the price increase has been curbed, the overhead has been cut back, and the hopeless debt can be released within a reasonable time, or at least we will make them bearable. Dear House, I would also like to inform you that we are going through a historic NATO summit, where we have taken decisions concerning Hungary's security. A few years ago, no one thought that weapons would be raging in our immediate neighborhood and killing human lives. We considered peace too self-evident. We have forgotten that maintaining peace means hard work and commitment. However, the crisis in Ukraine has now led our military alliance to action. [[13.30]] At the NATO summit, we have confirmed that any one of us is being attacked is as if we were all being attacked. We have confirmed that the protection of Warsaw, Vilnius or Budapest is at least as important as that of Berlin, London or Paris; a stronger military presence in Central Europe, more common Central European military exercises and fast-to-use NATO forces. Dear House, This means that we have created NATO shields on the eastern border of Central Europe, including on the eastern border of Hungary. To this end, we will increase our defence spending and devote more to the acquisition of modern weapons and training of our soldiers. We significantly strengthen and expand the papal airport as a base for strategic transport machines, and send Hungarian soldiers for military exercises in the Baltic States. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform this House that the Partnership Agreement with the European Union, which we signed last week with President Barroso, is opening a new era of relations between Hungary and the European Union. After hard negotiations, we agreed on the resources that could be used for the next seven years. The agreement serves Hungary's interests in its entirety. I thank Minister János Lázár and his colleagues for their great work. These resources are significant. But it's not a gift. In its order of greatness, it is equal to the amount that foreigners usually take out of the country in the form of dividends on profits. In other words, we can balance the national economy with EU support, which we have opened up to the European Union despite our underdevelopment. Dear House, Our goal in the negotiations was to invest 60% of the resources available to us directly in the Hungarian economy. Some make epic comments when Hungary accepts this money, because it is in debates and serious debates with the Union. I would like to remind you that conflicts are not worth taking on for themselves. Conflicts must be undertaken at the time and where the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people require this. And when our interests are served by agreement, then without hesitation, as we have done, we must agree. Dear House, With this agreement, the largest economic development programme after the change of regime will be launched in Hungary; more jobs, more security, valued and paid performance. Dear House, I would also like to inform you that the opening celebrations of the 2014/15 school year have taken place in all primary and secondary schools. Today we see some 1 million 300 thousand children and students starting the new school year. And let me put it this way, because it's good to say that everyone's starting school year is cheaper. The strength and improved performance of the country is indicated by the fact that each student received the textbooks at a better price than before this year, and 60 percent of the students received the textbook packages free of charge. At the same time, I also have to report how some crimes have occurred in recent weeks that have affected our children, which have rightly upset the whole country: violence and pedophile crimes. I see, fellow Members, that we need to act as soon as possible and that we need to apply the law more rigorously in order to protect our children. Strengthening child protection in all areas will be the priority of the year ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I can tell you that this year we have passed two elections that clearly show the will of Hungary's voters. Now we have a third, which is no less important than the last two. I report to this House that Hungary has prepared for the municipal elections in all settlements. I ask everyone to take part in the election and encourage their families and acquaintances to do so. Twice they've shown their strength and determination, it's time to do it a third time. Hungary is at the beginning of an emerging and emerging era, and it is already apparent that the country can do great things, but only if we take our own destiny and shape our future. Anyone who doesn't always stand up for what's right will never be right. So please go and take part in the election and stand by your opinions. Dear House, In recent years it has been proven that we Hungarians can make good decisions together, decisions that will bring us forward, which can make us successful, our family, our settlement, our country and our nation. In the hope of continuing the session, I wish you strength, health, patience and wise decisions. Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause in the pro-government factions.]]
u2014-09-15-2	Dear House, After the Prime Minister's speech was over 20 minutes, the House Committee held that the factions had 8-8 minutes to hold their own comments. First, Mr András Schiffer, leader of the Group, on the part of the LMP. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, If you are talking about unfair financial products in the near state of the currency crisis after four years, you should not only account for why the country is at least four years late, but we should also talk about the fact that there is currently a series of negotiations in the world between the European Union and the United States of America that aims to eliminate the possibility of eliminating unfair, toxic financial products once and for all. A series of negotiations are taking place between the United States and the European Union, which fundamentally jeopardises Hungary's interests in Eastern and Southern Europe. It endangers Hungary's GMO-free nature, endangers local food, endangers, where appropriate, the reduction of drug prices and endangers the elimination of toxic financial bubbles. Therefore, I think that on this issue, what the Hungarian strategy should be, we are talking about the formulation of a common national interest, the five parties should agree with the government on this issue. Where appropriate, if this convention comes before the Hungarian Parliament, a confirmatory referendum shall also be issued. Mr. Prime Minister, At a time when you are talking about whether the country is strong enough and whether politics should be about the pursuit of the common good, about a just life, it should also be remembered that the strength and independence of a country are greatly influenced by the fact that its citizens, workers, craftsmen, various local communities dare to speak up for their own interests, whether there are strong local communities, which should not be afraid of administrative retaliation. I would like to remind the Prime Minister that what has been a sham of social self-organization over the last few weeks goes beyond what some organisations consider to be a suspected or genuine irregularity. What we need to see is that the messages of the last few days come with a declaration of war to the brave Hungarian people who want to represent themselves, that everyone can slap their ankles if they want to take action against local or national authority for their own interests in jobs or elsewhere. Mr. Prime Minister, At a time when he is singing praises about the expansion of employment, it is perhaps also of no interest to consider that the increase in employment in Hungary does not involve a reduction in poverty. In fact, today, if Hungary is " doing well " in something within the European Union - strictly quoting - it is an increase in poverty. Poverty in the European Union has increased by 4 percent in recent years, by 14 percent in Hungary. Hungary is at the forefront today in terms of the proportion of people in severe material deprivation: 27 percent. In Greece, which has been on the verge of bankruptcy in recent years, 20 percent are living in severe material deprivation. And it's not for nothing, Prime Minister. [[13.40]] Employment is not expanding because of what you - Mr Secretary of State Czomba and you - promised in 2009 that real tax-paying jobs and real jobs will be created in the competitive sphere. If you look at the level of enterprises with more than five employees, there is no increase in employment. What happened was that social benefits were switched to public employment, one of the social payments was transferred to another type. Employment has not actually increased. And one more thing: Prime Minister, in a country where there is a continuous withdrawal of resources from the knowledge economy, we must say that the real question in Hungary today is whether Hungary will be a community-based society or a knowledge-based society. In a country where, compared to 2002-2003, when education spending accounted for 6 percent of GDP, the same goes below 4 percent today, it is necessary to face the fact that, until the Hungarian national economy can produce higher added value, Hungarian people's wages will not be able to increase in the long term. In Hungary, R &amp; D is 1 per cent of the GDP of R &amp; D. In the European Union it is 2 percent, in Scandinavia it is 4 percent. Prime Minister, the success stories you have spoken about in July or in other cases in recent weeks are about countries that have invested primarily in knowledge, intellectual capital, natural capital. Thus, it was possible to produce higher added value and not the industries XIX. They saw the pledge of ascension in the centuries, but in the fact that the educated heads of man would stay in that country and try to create world-famous products there. Hungary is not moving in this direction, and talented young people today see that they cannot develop their talents in Hungary, and that is why Hungary is threatened by the horror of a country without grandchildren. Mr. Prime Minister, When you talk about employment growth, you should also note that while you, for example, give Hankook, you and János Kóka's favourite multinational investor, 19 million forints for a job, or Apollo Tyres will be given 30 million forints for a job, while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will receive 2-3 million forints for a job. The issue is that they went against their 2009-10 promises, did not narrow the gap between the multinational sector and government suppliers, the close oligarchs of the current government and the domestic SME sector, this gap has expanded. Worthful employment growth in Hungary will be if the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector can grow. Today, the country is going in the opposite direction. You talked about strengthening family farms, compared with a 15-percent reduction in the proportion of family farms between 2010 and 2014; today, over 300 hectares, 25 per cent owns 84 per cent of the land. You enter into key strategic partnership agreements with large multinational companies, filling the pockets of multinationals with a lot of money. Compared to this, we have seen that in recent months, Jabil Circuit is firing 700 people, Tesco is firing 700 people, Microsoft 1800 people, and we can continue to list them. This employment policy, Prime Minister, is a failure. It has nothing to do with what your predecessors have done in Hungary. We have to choose: we want a assembly country or we want a renewable Hungary. A renewable Hungary is about investing in the knowledge economy, the development of natural and human capital, about finally strengthening the capacity to create domestic capital, the local economy. That way, people will have more money, so people will have a chance to stay in the homeland and try to fulfill their own talent. The direction in which you lead Hungary does not lead here. It leads to a person who feels talented watching how he can leave this country as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-4	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-5	Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Allow me, in the name of Jobbik, first of all, to wish people living in areas affected by flood protection, and those working there, good luck, much strength and gentler weather. Turning to the Accounting Act, Jobbik doesn't have to prove anything here, I think nothing: our party's position has always been clear, we've been on the side of the injured from the beginning, so it's not surprising if I can say that Jobbik will support the law before us. Our conscience is clear: we have no responsibility either for the development of the foreign currency credit crisis or for its length of time. Maybe there aren't too many people in this Parliament. But as opposition parties, of course, we have concerns, we have comments, including on timing, which I am sure Prime Minister will say has nothing to do with the election campaign, the proximity of elections, but no one will believe, and of course I will not believe it. The delay, since you have been in government since 2010, and what is now unfair, has been unfair in 2010, and you have had two thirds since 2010, has unfortunately caused human tragedies. Hundreds of thousands of people had to leave this country, including because of the foreign exchange credit crisis, and let us not tell them that, unfortunately, hundreds or even more have committed suicide, ended their own lives, also because of the foreign exchange credit crisis. I don't want to make a policy out of this right now, but I'm asking all of us to review our personal consciences in this context. And not only are there moral issues raised, but also economic policy issues, in terms of timing and, in particular, delays, because the fact that you have allowed the foreign exchange credit crisis to drag on for so long has had a very negative impact on the Hungarian economy, among other things, as this has not allowed a significant part of the population to participate in internal consumption in a meaningful way, thereby strengthening the most important mobile operator of the economy, internal consumption. We have concrete proposals, concerns about the legislation that is coming up, and we also have concrete questions, because many things are still in the dark. For example, one of these questions is whether a debtor can be ordered to repay in law. If he's overpaid, maybe it's not his right to decide with the money he's overpaid and what he's entitled to, what he's going to do or not? I think that this is something that the legislator should reconsider or reconsider. It is also a question of what happens to implementations, since there is a moratorium on eviction, but movable property is carried, there is a great deal of uncertainty about implementations, and there is a question of nullity here too, since at the beginning of the enforcement proceedings an illegal amount was turned towards debtors. The Curia has lost two lawlessnesss, but there is also the question of what about the other infringements that might arise in connection with foreign exchange lending. We are curious about these, for example, whether the government is planning to make a move. And here is the most important question, the question of forinting, Prime Minister, on which you and the Group leader, Antal Rogán, have said very vaguely. Although we have to tell you that the Hungarian Socialist Party has started an incredible rush here with the local elections approaching, he has also noticed that there is a foreign exchange credit crisis in Hungary, but I will tell you honestly, I can only compare it to Eric, the legendary Olympic rush of the eel, the calimping that the MSZP is now doing. The only difference between the two is that Eric the eel was at least touching what the MSZP was doing, but that's rather pathetic. But I don't want to comment on that anymore. But I'd like to get to the fact that there are lawsuits here. The question of the Constitutional Court, the foreign influence and the impact in Hungary was also mentioned in Prime Minister's speech. I think that in this situation it would be appropriate to clarify the position of each faction on this issue here and now. Where's who standing? Which side? Our position, as I said at the beginning, is clearly on the side of the injured. So we're facing the banks that keep trying to get out of the load, try to get out of the load, run away, find all kinds of loopholes. We are faced with internal political, foreign policy, media or even foreign pressure, which constantly tries to prove that the Hungarian economy does not really have an interest in resolving the foreign exchange credit crisis. It is also in your interest to boost the internal consumption I have already mentioned. But, and here I will appeal to Prime Minister, if the government is playing again to stall, tactics, perhaps negotiating with the Banking League in the background, to the detriment of the injured, we will also be facing the government if this comes to light. Well, so much for the settlement bill. I would like to turn to the NATO summit, which Prime Minister spoke of as a kind of success story. I think, however, that a significant part of Hungarian society, or at least me, is concerned about this NATO summit. To tell you the truth, I have not been reassured by the promise of NATO leaders that they will protect us if anything happens here. In fact, it seems to me that Hungary is particularly at the expense of getting more and more involved in this conflict, the war that is not our war. [[13.50]] The Prime Minister put it this way, and of course I understand the logic behind the sentences, that we will be hawks of protection, pigeons in the economy. I'm gonna make a little bit of a change, and I'd say we're gonna be hawks on the farm. Let's take all the chances. But in defence or at least in this conflict, let us be pigeons and seek peace and try to keep Hungary away from this conflict, even at the expense of our NATO membership. It was not mentioned in the Prime Minister's speech when he spoke about the tasks ahead of us in the autumn, the most serious problem, the emigration. In the short term, in the medium term and in the long term, the most serious tragedy for Hungary is that not only the previous socialist governments, but also under your governance, hundreds of thousands, especially young people, had to flee. With this, I think that the government should be much more closely concerned, and not deal with the fact that young people are fleeing Hungary simply because of an adventurous desire. In particular, let me mention the problem of the age group who is no longer able to flee abroad for various reasons outside of it, I am talking about the ladies and gentlemen over the age of 45-50 who also lose their jobs, but who cannot find another job, cannot go abroad, and the government's work so far has not been able to improve their situation. There was no mention in the Prime Minister's speech of taking action against civil society organisations. Although Mr. András Schiffer mentioned this, I would like to mention it, but from a very different perspective. It is possible to argue whether it was stylish, whether it was elegant to take action against Ökotárs, but I would rather say that the management of all civil society organisations should be transparent. But then, Prime Minister, who is passing through, let us also consider how the CF was able to campaign parties in an embarrassing way in the parliamentary campaign, flood the country with billboards, while, in principle, it is a civil society organisation. [[János Lázár: It was certainly not the Norwegians!]] And finally, after the municipal elections, Prime Minister, wherever I go, I hear two things from our candidates and sympathizers. I hear the local Fidesz leaders are threatening them. On the one hand, they threaten to shut down the faucets, if not Fidesz, but Jobbik, and on the other hand they threaten not only settlements, but also individuals, that they will lose their jobs if they support Jobbik or become Jobbik's candidates. Prime Minister, I ask you to make it clear here and now at this meeting that you do not support this, you will pursue this within your party. In the settlements where Jobbik will be in the position of city leaders, and when we come to government, because sooner or later this will happen, I promise you here and now, Prime Minister, that no one will be harmed because of their political and political affiliation. I'm asking you to promise us the same thing and stop all your colleagues who do not have fair competition. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] They're going after dishonest mafia methods. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-15-6	It is now up to the leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach.
u2014-09-15-7	Mr President, Dear House, The Prime Minister mentioned a number of issues, and among them, the accountability of the banks was most serious. I would like to comment on this, too, but first there is a sentence about flood protection, which is a natural disaster, and the only role that man can play is to protect, recognise and respect those who defend; but there is also a man-made disaster in Hungary, because this is also why the aforementioned banks should be accounted for. The reduction was also included in the Prime Minister's speech. I believe that this need is justified by the same situation, the same source of the situation as in the case of bank accountability, i.e. the release of a hunger for profit. It takes the same courage to take action against high-powered companies as it does with banks. As we thank the negotiators for the results, we must warn everyone that this is a preparation time, since Hungary must be more capable of self-development than it is now. Of course, we are all happy about the improvement in the situation of families and we consider it important to strengthen child protection. Economic growth is also good news. Now, if I may, I would like to turn to the question of bank settlement, which is a financial problem, but rather a social issue, as it also means providing housing. We know, of course, that it is not just foreign currency loans, and it is not just housing loans. I need to go back to the first civilian government's home support. This meant a loan with a subsidised interest rate, a tax reduction, but also a boost to housing. It was very popular, as it increased the number of annual constructions from 19 thousand to 28 thousand in a few years, and in 2001 the number of new permits was 48 thousand. Then came the Balliberal Government, which abolished this support, and the banks immediately entered into the created space, and their profit hunger was so great - which, I note, the then government did not try to reduce - that the promotion of foreign currency loans had begun. International experience shows that there is little foreign exchange demand in addition to fixed-rate long-term loans in national currency. So that original home-building support was also good in this respect. Here, in fact, two values, two thinking and, as a result, two political representations conflict. Not to say it, but in practice, socioliberal governments and political forces enforce the view that everything that suits our interests is free. We say, and this may be a philosophical issue, in which it is not worth going into detail, but we must note that our freedom must function within the limits of social justice and fairness. It seems that the presence of unfair profit was in line with this balliberal view, at least not bothered them. It would have been much easier to stop that process than to make it right, to stop it. The law to be negotiated, which is going before Parliament today, is a fair and courageous initiative. If we look at how the problem of foreign exchange loans has evolved and what stages of government action have been taken against it, then we have to start with the end-payment, as 170 thousand contracts have been cancelled and this has resulted in a 23,3% reduction in the foreign currency-based mortgage pool. We should mention the National Asset Manager, which took in 19 thousand real estate by the end of April this year, and this solved the problem of 80,000 people. The exchange rate barrier was the solution to 184 thousand contracts, at least partially. I believe that the law that comes before Parliament today reduces repayments by 25-30 percent, according to preliminary calculations. Its very important element, I would like to point out that it will put in place a moratorium on interest increases until 30 April 2016. The amount that debtors can expect is around HUF 1 billion, and as has already been said, it will help over 1 million 300 thousand families. I believe that this is not a party policy issue, but a question of the responsibility and courage of all Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this law and to help families in difficulty with foreign exchange loans and forint loans. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-09-15-8	Now it's time for Mr. József Tobias, leader of the group, on the part of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-9	Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear fellow Members, I listened with respect to the Prime Minister's report, and I was pleased to hear that the settlement of the situation of families in a currency trap was submitted in comparison to the several times promised dates. Let it be clear that no one else tells us what we think, we say it ourselves, and we say that on all matters that help different groups of society, we will support these decisions and welcome them from the heart. Especially if, in the end, soup has not become more expensive than meat, if the euro does not become higher than all that is visible today, which has been shown over the past four years, and if the transparency, prudentness and functionality of the financial system are ensured. I sincerely hope that the government will act very carefully, and while giving with one hand, as a result of its economic decisions, Hungary will not want to take it away with the other hand, as this has been the experience of Hungary over the past four years. Dear fellow Members, half of our countrymen living here today are in crisis. The government seems to ignore this, as if it had forgotten that today Hungary is not about Kossuth Square decorated with pretty square stones, not about building gigastadiones, but about Hungarians whose children lie down hungry every day, those who do not have a chance to change their situation in the short term. But let's look at the dry facts. Based on Eurostat data in Hungary, compared with the Visegrad countries, the proportion of those at risk of poverty or social exclusion continued to increase last year. In 2012, this figure increased to 32.4 percent, in 2013 to 33.5 percent. A similar OECD study shows that only in Hungary social expenditure and related social support elements of the working age population have decreased. This includes social assistance, unemployment benefits, minimum wage support. Today, the gross minimum wage in Hungary is HUF 101,500, but in fact in net terms it amounts to HUF 66,483, i.e. even this year's net minimum wage is far below last year's minimum wage per capita, which is more than HUF 87,000 in Hungary today. Ladies and gentlemen, The sad reality is that today more than 4 million people live in Hungary with less than 66 thousand forints. Let us add that inequalities in Hungary have been growing ever since 2010. While the other Visegrád countries continue to show a decline in this area, they are moving in the opposite direction. Slipping to the lower social layers is a daily experience of everyday life. Most of our children's chances are that the modern school approach required for the eruption, the XXI. PISA studies show that an educational system with increasingly deteriorating abilities has developed instead of a century's knowledge. Centralized education has made teachers official, ripped schools away from local communities, mixed the curriculum with central ideology and tried to force them through our children. Ladies and gentlemen, For all this, I accuse the government of misappropriating society. Prime Minister, this is not a legal category, this is a moral issue. In every village, every city I'm talking about, there's this everyday experience. They expect the government to provide them with protection, security and predictability. In order to be aware of the government's performance over the past four years and to see clearly how government practice worked, I propose that all parliamentary committees establish a subcommittee that can take the balance of governance between 2010 and 2014. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] We would like to make all the details transparent, but we are particularly curious about the situation of health care in crisis, which suffers from a rolling pile of debt and a shortage of professionals, and we would need the work of the Ministry of Human Resources to ensure that while it ran 500 million forints to the Fociacacademia in Felcsút, we could not afford how and how to alleviate the social crisis. However, studies should also cover public procurement, as the fate of the use of tender money is not known in the case of exceptions. I trust that my fellow Members agree with me that Hungarian citizens have the right to know what the money collected from them has been spent in the last four years and how the government has spent public money. I trust that, in the light of the legitimate demands of your constituents, you will vote in favour of this proposal, regardless of party standing. Prime Minister, it seems to me that you want to serve the common good by pursuing the poor, not poverty. They're not strengthening, they're intimidating civilians. They are not partners with society's supporters, but they are an enemy to human rights vigilantes. They don't want social peace, they want to fight with their citizens and the outside world. The Hungarian fate, my deep concern for Hungary, tells me that if this practice stays that way, it can also cause irreparable social damage. The figures could be given a long list, so allow me, figuratively, more plastically, to show this situation, which is in Hungary today, which the Prime Minister forgot to talk about in his starter. There's an ARC exhibition in the area of the Fifty-Six, a poster show. In this exhibition you can see a poster depicting a bus, tense-faced passengers sitting with scythes above, and the driver György Dózsa. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] I believe in democracy and democratic rule of law and culture. Your government practice shows that you're getting less and less. But what if, in his final despair, more and more people - God does not give them! -, our fellow countryman, do you think you'll give up democratic solutions, who will be able to handle it? Who will be able to remedy the social tensions you stimulate? You know, it's like, you can bend a system, but sometimes it breaks. The government has to think very, very much about not repeating historical examples that have occurred so many times in Hungarian history. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This is the responsibility of everyone in this House. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-15-10	The last of the groups will be Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, first of all, to thank everyone who is involved in flood protection, on behalf of the Fidesz Group, for having participated in the last few days. I am doing this separately in the name of my native village, a 300 small, enthusiastic village, where, on the basis of the work that has been done in recent days, I think we can be pleased and welcome to see that not only the large cities, the large settlements, but also the smallest remote settlements in Hungary can count on the immediate assistance of the government and disaster protection when there is a problem. Ladies and gentlemen, Undoubtedly, one of the most important topics of this short parliamentary session, which precedes municipal elections before we continue to work in October, is the accountability of banks. I am somewhat sorry that all my fellow Members are talking about this as if it were a matter of foreign exchange credentials, but it is not so, my fellow Members. If they had read the law carefully, or at least listened to what we were saying, they would have realized that this was not only about foreign exchange credentials, but also about forint credencers, because they have the truth, and justice must also be served. Ladies and gentlemen, I also resented it a little bit, and I am pleased that my fellow Member Tobias did not comment here in detail on the proposal from the MSZP this weekend, because I see that even he felt that it was strong here in the walls of this House, because indeed, many of us thought of it when we read on the weekend the proposal of the MSZP, that when they were on the government, they were acting like they were in the pockets of the banks. [[14.10]] Because we saw only proposals from them that were good for the banks: they allowed not only the spread of foreign exchange loans, but also - unfortunately on the government - unilateral treaty amendments and all that, the fine prints in the treaties, which unfortunately led to the fact that hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families had very serious problems after that. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have also been paying attention to the issue of foreign exchange lenders and the issue of forint-crediters. In 2010, my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, with the mandate of the Group, first presented a proposal which, by the way, was the first major help to foreign exchange lenders, such as the abolition of the unilateral amendment of the contract; then we stepped forward - and the following year with even more detailed rules - so that all loans with interest rates could no longer be made, but that we regulated how loans should be priced in Hungary, and we would like to continue this work forward with the establishment of a fair banking system. But I think that this also requires the accountability of the banks, because if they have acted unfairly against someone, then they really need justice. That is what this bill is about, and we are essentially asking for your support for it. Allow me to draw your attention here, my fellow Members, especially Mr Gábor Vona, to treat some of your experts very carefully, because the question you asked here earlier is whether it is possible to impose early repayments on those foreign exchange-credited customers who have a living contract, we have heard this question from the banks in the negotiations, and it also made sense on their side. 'Cause if the amount that the foreign exchange lenders are going to get back now is interpreted as early repayment, it will, of course, reduce his debt better, and otherwise, the client will be better off. If, on the other hand, we do not interpret it as prepayment, then the bank will be much better off, with nearly a hundred billion forints, Your Honour. So be careful with your advisors, because I'm sure they're already inside the banks. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] And as for the topics that have been said, honourable Members, I have observed them with a little bit of malaria, or I have felt that the remarks that you consider the civil sphere to be the sole depositary of truth are as if you were not living in this country. Let us recall, however, that there have been various cases here, such as the Child Cancer Foundation's case, let me remind you. Interestingly, at a time when, in the same way, doubts were raised, the authorities came forward, and somehow I felt, fellow Members, that you were not so sensitive. Now, however, they are very sensitive, and there are equally suspicions about which the authorities are doing their job, and overall I can tell you that the example of the Children's Cancer Foundation and the example of civil society organisations that do not otherwise have Hungarian money shows that in Hungary the law applies to everyone, and we will not allow Hungarian money to be stolen, nor will we allow Norwegian money to be stolen, my fellow Members, and I ask you to allow the authorities to do their job here. If anyone has a problem with the action of the authorities, then - Hungary is a rule of law - the right to appeal can be used and will be decided by the court. But I would protect everyone from giving the truth in advance to those who may be under official investigation because there is some kind of suspicion. I'm asking you not to stand next to them, but to measure with equal standards, as you used to measure with the Children's Cancer Foundation. Ladies and gentlemen, It was a very important matter here, I think, on the other hand, what is called poverty, poverty statistics. I would be very careful here for two reasons, honourable Members. On the one hand, I would like to draw your attention to the European Union statistics that the number of people living below the poverty threshold in Hungary is still below the EU average. It is below the EU average, and I think that in recent years the government has taken steps that have, by the way, helped to ensure that people who had previously been in a hopeless situation, who could only support their families, have been given work instead. Work, which, by the way, has been paid with more money and more income than previous life support, is practically double, fellow Members. Over 200,000 people work in public employment. I ask you to be aware that these people want to be able to say at home that they do not support their families, that they work, and that they obviously want to work not only in public employment, but that is the first step to return to the world of work. Do not underestimate these people, I would like to ask you, fellow Members, and do not underestimate public work. Ladies and gentlemen, What I would like to say is a little bit of a lesson to what has been said here and, by the way, to the preparations that are taking place in the country before the municipal elections. Now we can draw conclusions. On the one hand, let me say that I am very sad that the autumn session of Parliament should be started in the same way as the spring, that once again the immunity of a left-wing Member should be discussed at the request of the prosecutor. But I'm even sadder that if I look at the municipal candidates, what I see is that there are more people among your candidates who have previously been convicted, accused. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought you wanted to break up with the Hagyó era, to break up with the Hunvald era, but it seems from the candidates that this is not the case, honourable Members. It is one thing that, apparently, they are not very able to offer a programme on the basis of the comments made here, but I would ask you to at least try to break with the past, because if you do not do so, I am afraid that the citizens of Hungary will decide for the third time as they decided in April 2014 and May 2014. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-12	Dear House, I now give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in return.
u2014-09-15-13	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their attention and their views on the opening of the season Prime Minister's briefing. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, repeating Mr Rogán's information, that it is not all about foreign exchange lenders that banks are accounted for. As early as 2012, we opened the price barrier for foreign exchange lenders. We've campaigned in public more times to get them into the price barrier, because it's better for them than for them to stay out. What could be done, we did. It's different now, it's more than that. This now applies to everyone other than foreign exchange lenders, which is why we call it the accountability of banks. What concerns free trade and, if I understand it correctly, the American-European Union's free trade agreement, let me first recall that there is an inter-wallet working committee that deals with identifying the effects of the treaty in preparation on the Hungarian economy. This committee is, by the way, at your disposal, and if any parliamentary committee puts this issue on the agenda, they will gladly go there and share their knowledge with you. Please take this opportunity. In general, it may not be worth having a philosophical debate on free trade, but I would add that there is a common understanding that free trade is always good for the stronger states - there is truth in this thought - but there are counter-examples. For example, Hungary is right here, where we produce more than 80% of the total national product from exports, and if that were not possible - and that is because of free trade - the Hungarian economy would be in a lot of trouble. But this is a philosophical debate that we may be able to break off from a specific agreement in preparation. I can say one thing to you and to the voters of Hungary: the government will act with the utmost care and start with the interests of Hungary, open to consultations and discussions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Civil organizations: we would like nothing more than to see clearly. We want clean water in the glass, because we're troubled by duplicity and lies. We don't like it when people say freedom, but it's on pay; it says independence, but it's stuck; it calls itself a civilian, and then it's a paid political activist; it talks about respect for law, but when it comes to its own finances, it asks for exceptional treatment, saying that it's not Hungarian money. Now, that's not what Hungarian voters like. So I think that the government is right to state clearly that the laws in Hungary apply to everyone: civil society organisations, political parties and even citizens who are not organised at all. [[14.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, My fellow Member Schiffer also touched on a very difficult issue, where, if I have understood his words correctly, I do not agree with him at all. Because, of course, I would also like to live in a world where everyone does their work in white robes, works in a research laboratory, and does spiritual work with the highest standards. I would like to inform Mr. András Schiffer that there will be no such world. We may want to, but it's against human nature. There will always be people who will go to work not in a white cloak, but in a blue collar; who will wear work clothes, who will live on physical work, who will support themselves and their families not from the educated head of man, but from the physical knowledge at their disposal, from the learned professional knowledge. These people must be considered equal members of the Hungarian society, and indeed. Therefore, all elitist and technocratic contributions that want to show us the image of an economy in which only those who went to university, have an education and a science degree will definitely reject Fidesz as a people's party and demand space under the sun for those who have not had enough talent who have not been educated, who have no tendency to do so, and have decided to live their lives differently. Yes, we demand space for the physical workers, the skilled workers, the people who want to make a living from their physical work, for everyone who wants to support themselves from work. The distinction, the elitist and technocratic distinction that has emerged from your words, we reject it. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] Of course, Hungarian economic policy is constantly a subject of discussion, and this is right, but it may seem to be a failure, but it may be beyond the limits of credibility today. Of course, an economy can be considered a failure, I did it a few times in 2010, when I saw 10 million people living here, and we have 1 million 800 thousand taxpayers; and the question had to be asked how we were going to make a living, how this would turn into an economy, how this would turn into a country. And, of course, there are many ways to get from a bad state to a desired state. There are some parties here in Parliament that have been given to show how to do this. When it came to us, we chose our own economic policy, and today I can tell you that 4.1 million people, or 4 million 100,000 people, are working and paying taxes in Hungary. 4 million 100,000 workers who pay taxes can maintain a country of 10 million people. Of course, it would be better if there were 4.5 million of us, even 5 million of us, and the government did not hesitate to set this goal, because if the Czechs could achieve such a ratio, then why not we Hungarians too. But we will also need the workers, Mr Schiffer. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] To my fellow Member, Vona, who spoke of delays, I would just like to say that he should show me another country where he can do what Hungary has done to foreign exchange creditors and now he is doing to account for the banks. If you show me just one country, I'll accept that we've been delayed. Compared to who? Compared to who? [[Noise, interventions from Jobbik and LMP: Compared to Croatia.]] Compared to whom, ladies and gentlemen? As far as NATO is concerned, I acknowledge that Jobbik questions the correctness of Hungary's NATO engagement, since it is not required at all that everyone should agree that Hungary's place is within NATO. We need to be aware that Jobbik thinks this is wrong. We have two reasons why this condition should be maintained. First of all, there was a referendum on this. Secondly, my personal belief is that although Hungary has much to spend to increase military spending, more attention and appreciation must be paid to its soldiers, their dedication must be strengthened, their recognition increased, but the Hungarian army alone would not be able to guarantee Hungary's independence. [[Gábor Vona: That's a big problem.]] The Hungarian army can do this only within the NATO framework. You can love or not love this fact, but I say with the best conviction to all citizens of Hungary: a strong and well-trained Hungarian army can guarantee the safety of Hungary only within the NATO framework, so we have a place within NATO. I do not want to judge Gábor Vona's words, but perhaps here I can consider his position irresponsible, because the person who promotes information from NATO is, I believe, damaging the security of Hungary. Now we should be strengthening it and not weakening it. Ladies and Gentlemen, As far as the better-looking ones are concerned, as regards the harassments presented here, I would advise you, fellow Members, not to look at people as donkeys. They're gonna go to the elections, they're gonna vote, they're gonna express their opinion. I have seen seven parliamentary elections and the same number of municipal elections close to the body, and the sentences that I have heard from Congressman Vona at least fourteen times, always from the parties who were about to lose, and who have been saving themselves in advance because of the expected outcome, and many novelties, if you'll excuse the Member, his comments in this respect have not meant anything. Ladies and Gentlemen, Honourable Congressman Tobias, Far be it from me to deal with the affairs of another party, but still, beyond congratulating you on your new assignment and wishing you success in your work, the difference between the words of the new President and the old MSZP policy has not yet been discovered. No doubt you are a new president, but your party is the party that ruled for eight years, and then they were ordered by voters two-thirds at the end of the line. Whoever has any personal responsibility may, however, be a circumstance worth considering when speaking in Parliament. And there was an election here in 2014; I would also suggest that we mention it among the important political facts. Yet, people voted in confidence and entrusted us with continuing our work. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear MSZP, How many times should the Hungarian people spank you to see that it is worth changing their policies so far? Three of them were enough - how many do you need? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-14	Dear House, There will be further speeches before the agenda, first on behalf of Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, on behalf of the LMP: "Thoughts about the local government. " The floor is for Congressman; but before you begin, I ask you to wait a few seconds with patience, because you must wait for the ladies and gentlemen of Congress to leave the Chamber, who have more important things to do outside. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] My fellow Members, please take your seats. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker, Dear Members of the Government present! Ladies and gentlemen, The time of municipal elections is coming, when it is very, very difficult not to mention the phenomena that Mr Vona has already spoken about in his previous speech, and it is very difficult not to mention what the local government means in Hungary. Looking back, our faction experts have long described to me in background that the XIX. From the first century onwards, how the local government developed in Hungary in the Hungarian civil state, and I believe that most people here are aware of the tradition of this, so I would not say all of this, because all that the word itself means is to self-government something and to decide our own destiny with autonomy, the meaning of the word alone is enough to try to interpret it. At the same time, all the phenomena that Mr Vona has spoken of, unfortunately, we have experienced in the countryside, we too have experienced in the countryside, and how he regularly tries to influence the elections in the political decision-making of the governing party. All this is painful for us because in 2006, when Mónika Lamperth consoles the loser municipal candidates in one of these leaked recordings to try to get him in position, Tibor Navracsics, the leader of the Fidesz faction, says about the government: "The government, under the direction of Ferenc Gyurcsány, punishes everyone who chooses Fidesz and lies again, because it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who said about a week ago that no matter what color of a local government, the government must cooperate with him. [[14.30]] Once again, Ferenc Gyurcsány lied, they do not want to cooperate, they want to punish the people who choose the opposition, and they want to take the money, they want to give it to themselves. " These words were said in 2006 and I think that relatively many people in Hungarian society expected Fidesz to implement a completely different governance. At the same time, we find that county general meeting leaders refer to the fact that the authority is on the side of the governing party; they refer to the fact that settlements where they actually choose the same leader as the governing party have a chance. László Kövér, President of Parliament, said at the local Fidesz campaign opening event in Hajdúdorog last week: " There is a greater chance that the leadership of a settlement can take advantage of the opportunities if it belongs to the same party family as the government. " All these sentences concern us because everything that has happened to the local government over the past four years, everything that the local government has ever reported, is not only seen in the legal context of destruction, but is now increasingly in its personal background. Since the change of government in 2010, it has been possible to eliminate 8 percent of the remaining part of the country, thus reducing the possibility of self-determination by the municipalities to do financially. 60 per cent of the vehicle tax was taken over and guarantees were provided only for the financing of mandatory tasks in terms of the financial background. The possibilities of borrowing have been subject to a government licence, not on a normative basis, but on the basis of an individual decision, which endangers many and many settlements because of the in vain opening up of all the tender opportunities the government is talking about, the opportunities to break out the Hungarian countryside in the next period, if only those who have the capital to prefinance applications, or have the right background with government support to take out loans for pre-financing and exclude everyone else from these opportunities. In this respect, the new municipal law not only destroyed the idea of local government financially, but also gave the districts autonomy in the administration of local public affairs, taking away municipal rights, centralising the administration. Under the new municipal law, it was possible for the state to take away the tasks of the essence of the local government; not only the education policy, but also a number of other areas. This also raises concerns about what the Prime Minister said earlier in response to Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, because if the government does not regard not only the municipalities as fit to govern themselves, but also the people, it is a danger. As long as the governing party wants to narrow it down to people working in a laboratory in a knowledge society, and has no idea that farmers in Hungary have the lowest degree in the whole Union and the lowest in all other professional activities, it does not know what self-determination means. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-16	On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This year is a major election plant, because in the spring we elected MPs, then we elected MEPs, and now it will be possible to elect local government representatives, mayors and minority self-government representatives in the administration and adaptation of local affairs. Obviously, it is timely to ask what the municipality is and what has changed with the local governments, with the world around the local governments over the last 25 years. In this study, we are happy to come up with our results, and we are happy to come up with the government's exemption from more than a thousand billion forints of debt. For a decade, for nearly a decade, the policy of adding new tasks to the municipalities continued, with the budget draining out the funding of municipalities. The most critical example, let's say, is the withdrawal of tax revenue from the county authorities, which has made it impossible for the county municipalities to maintain institutions, but the State Audit Office has repeatedly stated that the resources needed for the operation of the municipalities in the annual budget have not been provided. Local governments have been freed from their loans, so they have the opportunity to develop for the new EU cycle. On the issues raised by you, such as the issue of borrowing, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the self-esteem needed for EU proposals and improvements can automatically be replaced by a loan by the municipalities; it does not matter what party leaders or representatives of the local government are sitting in the municipality. In the same way, I can say that the credit applications that arrived this year have been evaluated; regardless of party standing, they have been assessed in relation to the task and have created the opportunity for the municipalities to carry out their tasks. The fact is that we want to prevent a wave of debt from happening again, and indeed we have transformed the funding into a link to the task. And if it is related to the task, we have made it clear and clear that it is not possible to take on an operational type of loan, and that there is no need for the municipalities to take on an operational type of loan, because the conditions necessary for the operation are provided with the financing of tasks and with the normative ones. In the event that the municipalities are affected by an exceptional situation in which this funding is insufficient, then there is a fund from which the municipalities where local taxes or force majeure have been significantly reduced can be helped. If you look back, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Orbán government has decided not only to provide significant resources to the municipalities, but that the loan redemption was not the first significant step, but I would refer back to the decisions on the privatisation of the gas utility assets. Obviously, the person who did not deal with the municipalities at the time cannot have the notion that, following the privatisation of the municipal gas utility assets, the revenue was entirely taken by the State, and that the municipalities did not receive any compensation for their ownership. The first Orbán government provided this at the time, and the municipalities could have obtained a significant, very significant source of development, which started a very serious investment in a large part of the municipalities in the early 2000s. And in the same way, we could go back to the municipal fire department to pay the firefighters' overtime. So I think that, both financially and on the basis of the stabilisation of the local government system, we can demonstrate that this government is on the side of the municipalities, helping the interests of the municipalities. I reject the fact that the representatives of the governing parties wish to intimidate opposition representatives in any way. The fact that Fidesz-KDNP's candidates are in the majority, most of the candidates have been able to be put in place by us, and the fact that the LMP can't be met in rural settlements or small settlements as candidates or in any other form, but it's not the government's fault, it's not the government's fault, it's not the government's party's fault. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-18	Member of the MSZP, Gábor Harangozó, Member of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda: " Farmers Left to Sorsuk. " Here you go.
u2014-09-15-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the past four years, what we have seen in the past period of the Orbán government, we have felt as if Fidesz really did not care about the fate of those living in agriculture; it is as if, with the exception of some of their good friends, the Hungarian rural population in the villages had been permanently renounced. Think of increasing the burden on small and family farmers, the continuing deterioration of the conditions of rural life, the introduction of a record 27 per cent VAT in Europe, the increase in the burden on labour or the introduction of a compulsory chamber fee on all farmers. And, of course, let us not forget the fidesz mound, which goes ahead to build the power system, to put those who are committed, relatives in the position; the mound against which animal farmers here in Parliament have demonstrated themselves today, I would also like to welcome them here in the box. Because honest shepherds and family farmers ruined their daily livelihoods when they gave valuable land to artificial nails, roofers, and lawyer friends instead of local farmers. [[14.40]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that not only in the last four years, but in the last few weeks, the Orbán government has caused serious problems to Hungarian agriculture. The agricultural-environment management programme has been abandoned, and the purchase of the grapes in Duna-Tisza is highly cartel-suspected and inexplicably cheap, and they do nothing. They reacted badly and slowly to the Russian embargo. The framework for exceptional fruit and vegetable support was exhausted by the time they had moved. Due to the delay of the government, Hungarian farmers can kiss back some HUF 3.5 billion in support. It's like they don't have time to deal with farmers because of other important things. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, in this bad and otherwise constantly deteriorating situation, we are not making much use of criticism, so in order to make it better for farmers, we have also turned to the House with some proposals. We therefore ask that you put on the agenda without delay and support our proposal for a decision to support and mitigate the damage of farmers and food producers in Hungary who have been disadvantaged by the conflict between Russia and Ukraine. In this proposal, we have gathered ten points on what are the decisive and immediate things that can really help farmers in extremely difficult and lively situations. I would like to point out one of these points here because of the shortness of time, on which - I am convinced - if we do not change, we will not be able to improve - and in the short term - the situation of farmers, and this is a change in the situation of VAT. As long as we have 27 percent VAT on basic food - all single-figure VAT that farmers have to pay - farmers will always be exposed to VAT fraud and no matter what fire-fighting measures we take until this high VAT is maintained, we will not be able to improve their situation substantially. But there are farmers who are no longer helped by this package of proposals, because the lease application system, which the D.A. also concluded in its decision to close an investigation into the Bükk National Park, has been abused and abused. After being caught with this application system, they continue to take the land away from local farmers in a way disguised as a tender to continue to build their culture and rural influence. In the case of Hortobágy National Park, the Prime Minister initiated an investigation into Kehi because he saw what was happening there as a suspect of abuse. He promised that there would be no contract until the investigation was completed. Ladies and Gentlemen, There is no report, there are criminal cases, yet the farmers who appeared here have remained without land. Therefore, finally, let me conclude with the last point of your petition: " The livelihood of families and the Hungarian agriculture [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] there is a serious threat to the situation, and it is likely that from above the Velvet chair you cannot see how Hungarian agriculture is ravaged, and in it farmers with families. " Please do something for them. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-15-20	Minister Sándor Fazekas has the floor.
u2014-09-15-21	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, When I heard his words, I felt as if Zoltán Haughty had written the comment that he was kind enough to say. [[Dr. István Józsa: Hungarian Reality!]] And I guess it's not that hard to answer. I'm trying to make the information available to everyone. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is a touching charm that farmers have become so important to the MSZP now, because the time when the MSZP government, during your governance, closed almost all sugar factories in Hungary [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Come on!]] "Thousands of hectares of grapes have been cut, that's right, my fellow Member says that, come on, more than a hundred small cutting bridges have been closed, and Hungarian agriculture has been on a continuous declining course. It was a period of your agricultural governance. So, I'm telling you, there's a discreet charm that you're trying to act in the interests of farmers right now. In fact, it was at the time that there were only a few hundred landowners on all public land, or 600 thousand hectares, compared with over 6,000 landowners. So the family farms had access to these lands, obviously someone didn't win, and I also know from Bihar who complains that he didn't win, but otherwise his family members, so his wife and child won the land contest, and he went all over the press. Just as we, obviously you weren't here a long time ago, have explained, we have answered that the person you make up as a nail artist is, by the way, a family farmer who has completed a course alongside the farm to get along, and that is true of all the other arguments you have made. So I'm protecting the farmers who won the land contest. What you're doing is a modern-day mission, and the Hungarian farming community is asking for it. As to the situation surrounding the apple, as there is overproduction of apples: the European Union regulation - the timing is important - was published, the date is here on 30 August, the Hungarian decree appeared on Friday 5 September, until the 11th, 226 notifications came in from the 7,000 producers worth HUF 3 billion. Since there were Member States which reported their entire production as a result of injury, the Commission stopped and examined the notifications. So the Hungarian producers have not lost anything, their applications have not yet been investigated, the applications are obviously correct, contain accurate data, and we are confident that they will receive the right support. So the government didn't make a single minute of delay, unlike the previous periods when entire sectors were destroyed under your direction, just sitting in the velvet chairs and taking the pay. Another important thing is that the Hungarian regulation is preparing for further support, here the government has already decided, and the details of this will soon be published to farmers, otherwise through the MVH's special computer system. For farmers there is a continuous flow of information, and agricultural subsidies can often be delivered to them by deadline, often at the push of a button, while earlier, in your period, it took six months to do so. So I think that fast-track payments are certainly a significant help, and this year, we will also pay the advance on area payments at the given time. With regard to the agri-environmental support, you're saying something about absconding. I think you may have some EU knowledge, but if you don't, I suggest you look at the conditions of support, the agri-environmental support is over, this programme is finished, instead a new one is expected in the new common agricultural policy system, all the other news is false alarms and rumors. The next question is grapes. There is a significant production of grapes this year. With regard to Italian imports, and with regard to any wine imports at all, a period of 90 days was introduced. I trust that the cooperation of winemakers, the cooperation of producers and the help of the winery profession, the National Council of Mountains, will enable fair buying prices. Russian embargo. The Russian minister, Mr Fyodorov, received me as the first of the EU's agricultural ministers since the embargo. So I don't know how to sit down with Russia sooner, adding that hardly anyone believes that this crisis, which didn't occur as a result of the agricultural sphere, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And then the agriculture ministers will handle it. We do everything for farmers, we represent them, we represent all producers, unlike you. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-22	Thank you, Minister. I salute my fellow Members. Member László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda: "Our shared responsibility for the future of families. " You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.50]]
u2014-09-15-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, After a month, there will be another local elections in Hungary, which will once again give political actors the opportunity to focus their fundamental values and messages. In both government and municipal work, KDNP considers it particularly important to strengthen the middle class, to raise the poor and deprived social groups, and to further improve the situation of families. KDNP is a family party, which is why it considers strengthening the middle class and families to be the most important. This is a vital issue on which the country's social peace and long-term future depend. Our country can only develop and build a stable future in both social and economic terms with a strong, broad middle class. In order to achieve this, coordinated government and municipal social and economic policy measures are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, Several government steps have been taken over the past four years to strengthen families. We have rebuilt and placed on more feet the family support system that has been dismantled by the Social Liberals, and we have introduced the family tax system, in which the government has left more and more resources for families, recognising the costs of raising children. From 1 January 2014, a further 260 thousand families can benefit from these benefits by broadening this scheme. Free textbook supply reduced the burden on families. After 1.3 million students receive the bell in the school year 2014-15, 60 percent of children receive books free of charge, including first and second graders, children of large families and socially deprived children. Similarly, we have doubled the budget for social catering compared to social-liberal governments. After the reconstruction of Gyes, Gyed in recent years, the extra institution of Gyed was introduced from 1 January 2014. As a result of the reduction in household consumption, for the first time in a long time, the proportion of expenditure on housing and household energy has decreased. From a macro-economic point of view, it is particularly beneficial that, thanks to a reduction in household energy prices, families are exempt from spending 300 billion forints in 2014 and nearly 340 billion forints per year from 2015 onwards, thus encouraging the recovery of life and consumption. The government has also taken a number of measures to address the foreign currency credit problem, among which I would like to highlight the exchange rate barrier and the institution of end-payments, as well as the National Asset Management Ltd. and the House has a bill allowing banks to be accounted for, which we hope will be a definitive solution to the problem of hundreds of thousands of families in the foreseeable future. In part, GDP growth refers to an increase in household consumption, which was based on a series of measures to reduce demand and the measures mentioned above. The very low rate of inflation is particularly important and beneficial for both pensioners and families. In the framework of the operational programme for social renewal, the implementation of active labour market programmes continued, and between 2011 and 2015 the aim of this programme was to promote the employment of 58 230 disadvantaged women, of which 57 316 disadvantaged women, including 3627 returning parents, were included in this programme until December 2013. Of course, the institutional maintenance mission and charitable service of churches contribute significantly to increasing the efficiency of government and municipal action. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the Government to help further improve the situation of families by broadening the family support system that has been launched in recent years and thus strengthening social cohesion. With a single, coherent social and economic policy in mind, we will be able to achieve the great common goal of creating a self-sustaining and developed Hungary by strengthening the middle classes. The Christian Democratic People's Party remains committed to supporting these goals in the government and municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-15-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House,
u2014-09-15-26	Is your card in there? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes.]] I need an amp, a loudspeaker, a separate microphone. [[It's happening.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. We're gonna start measuring time again.
u2014-09-15-27	[[It's a portable microphone.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The results that have been made, whether in terms of the number of people at work or in terms of the growth of families, and which I will also detail, are not merely figures that have emerged from nothing, these are not positive results at random, these are not positive turns that can be justified by an external impact, but by the results of the last four years, the result of government decisions over the past four years is that we can report such beautiful figures both in terms of population and employment. In Hungary, the low population reached sometime at the end of 2010, at the beginning of 2011, when the fertility rate was the lowest in Hungary. After eight years of socialist governance, 1,24 children reached a mother of childbearing age - if you look at it statistically - this increased greatly in 2013 and 2014 and became 1.34. This is a large increase, and this is the result of what Mr President mentioned here, as the government has taken in its population policy, in support of families. We had several principles, and I would like to highlight two of them. One is to replace aid with work, and the other is to promote the opportunities to have a child with a job or to work with a child. Not only did we guarantee at legal level, for example, in the fundamental law on the protection of families, that if a mother returns from the child and starts working again, she should have access to part-time or teleworking, and this is now not only an opportunity and obligation for the employer in the public sector, but it is now an obligation for all employers. But not only do we have to look at these as measures, but also that, for example, in the ged extra at the beginning of this year, only 11,200, but by the end of the semester, 19 thousand women were able to work in addition to having children, while the budget also paid for them. We can say that Hungary has also reached a peak in women's employment, with 136 thousand more women working than in 2010. Many of them are obviously doing this in addition to having children, and Gyed extra and other measures have opened up the possibility for family mothers to have children and work alongside them. This is an employment record for women if you look at the past decade and a half. As far as social income inequalities are concerned: in the previous speeches, we have heard various figures, but at the same time we can say that Hungary is one of the better ones of the 28 Member States of the European Union, if we look at the average, as income inequalities are smaller than in other countries. In Hungary, therefore, there is no disintegration of society if we look at the other countries of the European Union. The figures with which our fellow Members have tossed take into account only, and only in many cases distorted, the numbers of state social redistribution, but do not take into account, for example, how much the overhead costs have fallen. For example, if we look at the number of billions of people in a country, let us say, in social redistribution, from one year to another according to your methods of calculation, but the cost of living is reduced by 10 percent as a result of the reduction in the overhead, bank interest rates are reduced as a result of the central bank's interest reduction policy, so people's standard of living is improved without any additional expenditure in the budget. And if additional expenditure is added to the budget, this is an even greater acceleration of the various social improvement processes. As far as the labour market is concerned, Mr President has also pointed out that more than 4 million people, 4 million people, have been employed in the last quarter. That's a huge rise! Employment levels have increased from 55 percent in 2010 to 62 percent in 2014, with a total of 342,000 people working now than the number of people working four years ago. So, if we look at the state of families, we can say that so many new family supporters have applied to the labour market, and most of them are in the competition sector, in the market sector. So they don't live on aid anymore, they're not in line for child support, they're in charge of the tax breaks and benefits that this government has provided for everyone. [[15.00]] At the same time, the unemployment rate fell from 11.1 percent to 8 percent. And if you look at the help that those most in need who have daily food problems can expect [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The government has launched a new programme in this seven-year planning cycle, an operational programme to support people in need, which will provide nearly HUF 30 billion in support and assistance to people in the most difficult situation. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda: " Who are the government's friends? ' The title is given below. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-29	Mr President, Dear House, The government's package to save bank victims is not just talcum dust for the wound. Let's call it Betadin; they're not pulling that wound together yet, they're not stitching it up, they're doing something that's not right yet. Where did this process come from? For a year and a half you have been waiting for the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Justice, the Mansion and many other organizations, and the end result is that you have now promised a full package of very hard discipline for the banks in autumn, which has become February-March. So this is next spring. But it is fair to say that we should agree on a ground-based basis. And this is that the stolen item comes back, and every single forint from the stolen item, from the stolen mass of money, would return. There is only one solution to this: to HUF the loans at the rate of the day of admission. This was, on average, about 165 forints. Maybe it's not a coincidence that the government is plotting the forints for next year, and it's not talking about the exchange rate at the time of admission, it's a vague, yet undefined, unknown, any dimension that puts this whole issue in. We can also say that there are very serious problems with the present proposal itself. The fact that, essentially by suspending the ordinary judicial journey, countless, thousands, even tens of thousands of citizens will be deprived of the opportunity for the court, before the court, to enforce their right, is insatiable in itself. But there is also a symbolic phenomenon of symbolism, and this is a question of so-called overpayments. With regard to overpayments, you wish to interpret as a kind of capital prepayment what people would go back to their own policy. After all, the bill states that the citizens' will is to make a prepayment in relation to the financial institution, which, in several cases, is supposed to have caused the problem, and many of which have sued Hungary, the state in whose market they are profiting, are getting rich. But if we are on the subject of early repayment and with this hypothetical will, Mr Rogán has been taught that Jobbik will listen to the wrong experts when he thinks that the individual citizen should be able to decide calmly how he has his own money, his own money back. But here's the thing: on the basis of this proposal, you would like to make a decision, rather than a wounded citizen, about what that man will spend his money on, what he can and will not use it for. A lot of people are in a situation where they are left in a different area of their lives, whether with bills or with the cost of teaching the child, precisely because of the untreatedness of the problem, your testosity and your crap. What is the basis on which you, as party to government, and pro-government representatives, decide, instead of Hungarian people, what is the amount to be spent on, in relation to them, crimes or supposed crimes? This is a virtus known from a previous system, which we do not wish to see again in the Hungarian Parliament. What's the next step? Are the victims' cars sold, and they're also being expunged to the banks? Who's suggesting these things to you? So the question, Mr. Rogan Group Leader, is who Fidesz-KDNP experts and background experts are. And at this point, the question arises whether any of you dares to stand here and state that there are no secret background discussions, meetings with bank managers, finance managers, bank union officials. If not, then let any of you stand up here quietly and confirm that the Fidesz-KDNP and no government leader are negotiating in the background, secretly, hushing with bank leaders, financial institution leaders, bank leaders! If so, it may be considered a package, although partially defective, but sovereign and created by you. If this is not the case, it is not possible because, thanks to these backups, " we are still in the process of passing on the bank special tax to the Hungarian citizens in its entirety. The transaction fee is not paid by those, not by the financial institutions and banks who should, but also by the Hungarian citizens, unduly. They were unable to develop a monitoring system over the years, which would measure whether there are real market processes behind raising bank fees, card fees or credit awards for different people. They do not stand, because in many cases you seem to burden the financial institution sector with one hand, and on the other side they slylyly and insidiously burden the Hungarian population with the tens of billions, hundreds of billions that should not be paid on behalf of Hungarian citizens in the name of public burdens. And that's the problem with this package. Now the victim can't go to court, and with the other hand, the apparent discount is repelled. The executives went after the property instead of the real estate, and they miss out on complete social groups as state-supported forint-crediters. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's why you can see something's going on, but it's not the real thing yet. Get your courage together, make this something real. And let one of you stand up here, one of you, and declare that you are not secretly negotiating with bank union and financial institution leaders in the background. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond to what has been said.
u2014-09-15-31	Thank you for the floor. Congressman! Dear House, I will not be able to answer all your questions in detail, but I would like to reassure you that we will soon vote on the agenda of the Parliament, where your vote will put on the agenda the law in which you can give detailed answers to each of your questions in the debate, partly to the government-submitter, and partly to the parliamentary committees and parliamentary representatives dealing with it. As regards your opinion on the delay, I would like to share this opinion, if it means not forgetting that the Curia has dealt with this issue relatively late, it has taken this decision too late. But what we can now see is that without the Curia's decision, it would have been very risky to make new laws, especially laws based on the Curia's decision. So what I can say today is that the government sees it as comforting and well-founded if it is possible to start accounting on the basis of a law based on the Curia's decision. This accountability is, moreover, not very sympathetic to the banks, since it is about a thousand billion dollars that banks owe to their customers, we can talk about this amount in the lower voice. I ask you, Congressman, to support the Government's bill and, if you do not have enough of this proposal, of course, to add your amendments. But please always take into account that we must protect these laws both before the Hungarian Constitutional Court and in European legal forums. By the way, the Ministry of Justice strongly considers the law constitutional, the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that the submissions before the Constitutional Court will not be admissible, since such submissions do not take into account the decision of the Curia. I note that today the Curia's decision, the Curia's decision as a legal unit, is also being debated by the banks. Another question is why they've only just come up with this now. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government would be obliged to negotiate with banks or negotiate with the Banking Association even if these negotiations were not, by the way, to succeed. After all, in many cases we have negotiated with the Banking Association without any result. Obviously, you can't seriously think that the current package of laws against which the well-paid lawyers of the Banking Federation are taking action in the specific lawsuits doesn't really think that the Banking Federation has approved this package. So they did not agree with the government's position, they have always said that they do not agree with the government's position, but the government can only defend a legally founded law, and I would like to reassure everyone that we will be able to defend this law. The government is prepared to protect customers, consumers, we will protect the legislative package either before the European Court of Justice or even before the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, head of the Fidesz faction, also spoke before the agenda: "The Accountability of Banks. " You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[15.10]]
u2014-09-15-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Here, my fellow Members also point out that this has been discussed many times today, but I think that it is a sufficiently important question to discuss every detail thoroughly enough and not to forget that 1 million 300 thousand Hungarian families can receive help in the coming months, 1 million 300 thousand families now sitting at the kitchen table, dividing and multiplying, and trying to figure out what this bill will mean for them, how much it will make their daily lives easier. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to keep this matter most firmly separate from the issue of helping foreign exchange lenders, because it is also about that, but we are talking about something much broader than that. You know that perhaps the real plague of Hungarian banking practice was the fact that the Hungarian banks had until the autumn of 2010 the freedom to unilaterally modify the contracts, as they please and please. Almost any customer's contract with them could be amended unilaterally, without the customer's consent, with minimum notification obligations, with practically simple notices posted without further delay. This practice, I think we can safely say, is almost unique in the world, because such an industrialistic practice did not exist in other countries, because not only the authorities but also the courts have often acted against it. Ladies and gentlemen, This practice is now being accounted for: unilateral contractual amendments, cost and fee increases at the expense of customers, interest increases, and unfair practices reported by the use of the exchange rate gap in foreign exchange lenders. Ladies and gentlemen, What happened was that banks treated their clients like they could pull a new skin off. Ladies and gentlemen, Costs, fees, interest were raised in the amount of HUF 1000 billion, or the costs of so-called foreign exchange transactions in connection with the exchange rate gap were settled, while foreign exchange lenders did not see the currency not only at the time of payment, but afterwards, as is the case. Therefore, I think that this event is unprecedented because for 1 million 300 thousand families, going back at least until 2007-2006, every forint of every contract in the entire Hungarian bank credit portfolio has to be accounted for by the banks that they have provided to private individuals. Account must be taken of housing loans, free-use mortgage loans, car loans, consumer loans and all forint loans, ladies and gentlemen. This account means that we will bring justice to 1 million 300 thousand Hungarian families. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, today, I think we should talk about the fact that the most important thing is that we can adopt this bill as soon as possible. We need it, fellow Members, because we see that the banks have already started their time-consuming tactics on several fronts. On one hand, of course, they are trying to explore all the possibilities of redress against the law of the Parliament adopted in July and the previous judgment of the Curia, and on the other hand, the idea of turning to the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Justice was immediately raised in their minds, for which, of course, the active steps have also been taken. Ladies and gentlemen, The accounting schedule must be firm, accurate and unchangeable as soon as possible in order to say that the issue of bank accountability can be successful. Therefore, I would also like to ask the representatives of the honourable opposition groups to discuss the details - including those from the Jobbik Group earlier - on the general debate tomorrow, I am happy to answer and answer these questions, but the most important thing now is that we do not delay, we do not lose time. In order for the Parliament to accept this as soon as possible, a derogation from house rules is required, and a derogation from house rules also requires your support, honourable Members. Therefore, on behalf of Fidesz and I think I would also like to ask you, on behalf of the KDNP Group, to assist in the successful accountability of banks by supporting today's urgent discussion of the bill from house rules. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to speak.
u2014-09-15-35	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, On behalf of the government, I can only join you, and I ask the Members of Parliament to discuss urgently the law before us, with a derogation from house rules. Mr. Fraction Leader has called this accountability law an unprecedented event, and I would add that since the change of regime, there has not been such a major law of justice, practically comparable to the laws of justice at the time of the change of regime, the importance of this law in the history of law. I ask for your wise decision today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2014-09-15-37	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Balázs Ander, Jobbik; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Sebestyén Vágó, Jobbik; Tibor Bana, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; László Varju, independent; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the President of the Parliament has rejected László Varju's intention to speak after the second agenda for today. Dear Parliament, The speeches before tomorrow's agenda were submitted by representatives: István Ikotity, LMP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; István Szávay, Jobbik; Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. On the day after the agenda, they applied for a speech: Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP; Lajos Kepli, Jobbik.
u2014-09-15-38	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, with the resignation of Mr Rácz Róbert, Tibor Révész has been nominated on the joint parliamentary list of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and the Christian Democratic People's Party. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Tibor Révész Máriusz' credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who has the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2014-09-15-39	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 July 2014, Róbert Rácz, Member of Parliament, resigned his mandate on the joint party list of Fidesz and KDNP. The vacant mandate was issued by the National Election Committee (NEC) 1258/2014. By decision of 26 August 2014, Révész Máriusz was granted to Tibor. On 29 August 2014, the decision became final at 4 p.m. On 29 August 2014, Dr. András Patyi, Chairman of the National Election Committee, presented the credentials to the representative. XXXVI of 2012 on the functioning of the Parliament Act No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution 9. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of the Article, the immunity committee examined the documents necessary for the confirmation of the mandate of Tibor Révész Máriusz at its meeting on 9 September 2014, on the basis of which it unanimously took the following decision without abstention and against the vote: the Committee of Parliament proposes to the Hungarian Parliament to justify the mandate of Tibor Máriusz Révész. [[15.20]] Tibor Révész Máriusz said in writing on 3 September 2014 that there is no conflict of interest against him and that he can therefore exercise the rights of his representatives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-40	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Please check if your card has been placed in the voting machine. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether Tibor Révész Máriusz justifies his mandate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament confirmed the mandate of Tibor Révész Máriusz with 170 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman Tibor Révész Máriusz to come to the center of the room and take the oath. I ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament, please rise. [[The people in this room stand up. Márius Révész steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2014-09-15-41	I, Márius Révész, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2014-09-15-42	I ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Member to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Márius Révész and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Antal Rogán, Péter Harrach, Dr. István Hiller, Dr. András Schiffer, Gergely Farkas and Gábor Fodor congratulated Márius Révész.]] Dear Parliament, I salute the family of Márius Révész, and allow me to wish the old and new representative of the Parliament effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 198. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the representatives of the House Committee and the factions have agreed with the proposed working schedule of the autumn 2014 session, which my fellow Members have received with the courier post and have also been able to get to know on the website. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has accepted the working order, so we do not decide on this under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the working schedule.
u2014-09-15-43	Dear Parliament, The Parliament shall hold its meetings at its regular session in autumn 2014 from today until 15 December. One, two and three-day meetings will take place during these sessions. The first sitting of the plenary session shall begin at 13 a.m. Further sittings shall start at 9 a.m. and each meeting shall run until the agenda points are discussed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that decisions may also be taken on Tuesday's sittings. The parliamentary committees shall hold their meetings on Wednesdays and Thursdays if there is no plenary session on that day. On Friday, Members shall carry out other duties related to their mandates. Interviews, immediate questions and questions will be discussed weekly, on the first day of the plenary session, on the basis of the House Committee's decision. The Speaker of Parliament may convene the sitting of Parliament for other days as necessary, and the Parliament may depart from the working schedule when adopting the agenda of the sitting.
u2014-09-15-44	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I declare that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has elected Mr József Tóbias as group leader, Mr Attila Harangozó and Mr Csaba Tóth as deputy group leaders. I congratulate Members on their new position and wish them every success in their work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion from the Attorney General to suspend the immunity of Dezső, Hungarian Socialist Party, Member of Parliament. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. I would like to inform you that the immunity case will be discussed and decided today. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The President of the Parliament presented his proposal on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits, and the keynote speeches. I would like to inform you that the House Committee has proposed derogations from house rules. I would like to ask notary Nándor Gúr to present the first proposal.
u2014-09-15-45	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. ANNEX II Parliamentary Decision of 24 October 2010 - hereinafter referred to as "the HSZ' - 65. On the basis of its powers under Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament proposes to the Parliament the following: " XXXVIII of 2014 on the settlement of certain issues relating to the joint decision of the Curia on consumer lending contracts of financial institutions. T/1272 on the rules for and certain other provisions of the accounts laid down by law. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of bill No 34 of the HSZ, it departs from the regulatory provisions of the decision. Paragraph 1 shall not apply; [[15.30]] If the Legislative Committee has also tabled an over-extensive amendment, the debate also includes that this amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the content of the HSZ 44. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. The decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote shall take place on Wednesday 24 September 2014. If the Legislative Committee has also submitted an over-extensive amendment proposal, the Parliament should decide on the regularity and acceptance of the over-extensive amendment proposal following the decision taken on the summary amendment proposal. The HSZ 108. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] whether it is clearly necessary to implement the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. The decision on the draft amending proposal and the final vote shall take place on Wednesday 24 September 2014. If the Legislative Committee has also submitted an over-extensive amendment proposal, the Parliament should decide on the regularity and acceptance of the over-extensive amendment proposal following the decision taken on the summary amendment proposal. The HSZ 108. Paragraph 4 shall not apply to the meeting of the Legislative Committee. (Noise. - The president's ringing.
u2014-09-15-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the departure from the house rule by 170 votes to two, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, The debate will take place tomorrow as the first item on the agenda and the final vote will take place at the meeting beginning on 24. Dear Parliament, Now it's H/1270. We shall decide on a proposal for a parliamentary decision with serial numbers to be dealt with by way of a house rule. At last week's meeting of the House Committee, the factions agreed that on 24 September the Hungarian and Polish parliaments would discuss a proposal with the same text, which commemorates the memory of Henryk Sławik and Antall Sr. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain the text of the departure from the house rules.
u2014-09-15-47	The House Committee's proposal to derogate from the House Rules of Procedure. The House Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution, hereinafter referred to as HSZ 65. According to its powers under § (1) of the Act, it proposes the following to the Parliament. The National Assembly, entitled "To commemorate the 70th anniversary of Henryk Sławik's death and the 40th anniversary of the death of József Antall Senior, " 1270. In the course of the negotiation and decision-making of the resolution proposal, it shall depart from the rules of the House so that the proposal for a resolution is included in the series of Parliament's proceedings without a separate decision. The HSZ is 34. Paragraph 1 does not apply. The proposal and the Commission's report amending the proposal for a decision should not be possible; the general debate should take place on 24 September 2014 with a total of 10 minutes for opening and closing. Following the opening speech, the vice-president of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, Maria Pańcyk-Pozdiej, may speak for a period of five minutes. Then the government representative will speak for five minutes. The political groups will then be able to express their views in 5-5 minutes. The final vote shall take place on 24 September 2014.
u2014-09-15-48	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, the four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it agrees to derogate from the house rules. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the derogation by 175 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The presentation will be discussed and decided next week on Wednesday. Dear Parliament, The Government has initiated the T/1271 amendment of individual laws in relation to budgetary planning and the more efficient provision of money market and utility services. The Parliament shall also discuss a proposal with a serial number under an urgent procedure at this meeting. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the emergency proposal.
u2014-09-15-49	Dear Parliament, The Government proposed that the general debate on the proposal be held on the 16 September meeting until the closure. For the purposes of the related Commission announcements, the committees may meet today during the meeting of Parliament, and an amendment may be tabled by the end of tomorrow's meeting. The detailed discussion phase shall be opened by closing the meeting on 16 September. In order to hold a detailed discussion, the negotiating committee may meet during the session of Parliament and on the first day of the sitting before the opening of the sitting. The Legislative Committee, after receiving the national information, but still the House Rule 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the amendments closing the detailed debate.
u2014-09-15-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, At the same time as the urgent hearing, the rapporteur proposed that the agenda be added to the discussion of the proposal in such a way that the general debate would take place as the second item on the agenda until the closure. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, is T/1271 going to be in an urgent meeting? a proposal with a serial number, together with the date of the general debate. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament had 146 votes in favour, 29 against, and 2 abstentions to negotiate the proposal in an urgent manner. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. T/794 on the amendment of the Act Bill No. 795 on refusal of State cooperation with religious communities The joint debate on the proposal for a decision with a serial number shall not take place at this meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, As the presentation will not take place at our meeting starting today, we will not, as appropriate, decide on the time frame for negotiations. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a recommendation on the agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, We're on an immunity mission now. It is therefore up to us to discuss the immunity matter and to take a decision. The immunity committee at the request of the Attorney General H/1251. Parliamentary Member Dezső Széchenyi Széchenyi has submitted a proposal for a decision on his immunity. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal, within a five-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2014-09-15-51	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Attorney General KF-7740/201311. In his transcript No.3 he proposed the suspension of the immunity of Parliamentary MEP Dezső Szigó on grounds of reasonable suspicion of bribery by a senior official. According to the Opinion of the Attorney General, Budapest XIII. The district municipality has not announced the possibility of obtaining the right to rent or property in one of its own shops in January-February-March 2013. Dezső Izséglő, deputy mayor of the district at the time, was involved in the rental of the business premises and apartments of the district. In January 2013, Dezső Szigély asked for HUF 5 million by means of an intermediary in order to transfer the rental rights of the business premises to an investor planning the commercial exploitation of the lease. The immunity committee discussed the transcript of the Attorney General at its meeting on 9 September 2014. The meeting was attended by Dezső Believing, who said that he felt that he had committed no crime. He considered the case to be a conceptual, premeditated action, which, in his view, aims to influence the municipal elections. In addition, he requested the suspension of his immunity. During the Commission's hearing, Dr. István Józsa, Vice-President of the Commission, MSZP, said that the contents of the Supreme Prosecutor's transcript do not support the substantiated suspicion that the crime identified therein was committed. Dr. Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Committee, said, on the one hand, that it is clearly not a conceptual procedure, that the rule of law is fully guaranteed in Hungary today. On the other hand, it stated that the main prosecutor's transcript contained in particular the evidence on the basis of which the substantiated suspicion existed according to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. The chairman of the committee said, thirdly, that in this public prosecutorial case, the committee should follow the incessant practice of recommending the Member concerned to the Parliament to suspend him from immunity in the event of reasonable suspicion of a public criminal offence. In view of this, the immunity committee has proposed to the Honourable Parliament, with five yeses, zero votes and one abstention, to suspend the immunity of the Members of Parliament, Dezső the Believer. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-52	Thank you, Mr President of the Commission. Congressman Dezső Believing indicates that he wishes to speak. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, a case in the robe of law enforcement will be part of the public discourse. Once again, a character killing, discrediting a politician, making it impossible on the altar of the election campaign. And another opposition politician. It doesn't have to be that way. Contrary to what the President of the Commission has said, there is a public prosecutor's case which has not been given immunity to his suspect by Parliament. He's sitting here with us today. His name is Miklós Simon. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks. A statement from the Fidesz: He's accusing me!]] Since then, court rulings have been issued on his case. I would like to make one more comment, which is outside my case, and this is addressed to the honourable Head of the Group, who lectured us on the previous agenda and, by the way, gave us good advice, as regards our candidates, that it would be okay if we paid more attention to ourselves. I've read some daring experiments on the prosecution's investigation in District V, possible suspicions and crimes, but I haven't read anything about them lately, for some interesting reason. And the identity of the candidate that started there is also an interesting picture. But so much, which doesn't concern my case. Returning to the action that concerns my case, I believe that its timing is indisputable to influence the results of the municipal elections. The D.A.'s accusing me, otherwise it's a very interesting story, because that's the order. That's the way it's supposed to be, because it can be sold. Later, it doesn't matter what's legally proven. In recent years, there have been numerous abuses and the unlawful use of criminal proceedings. I've been dragged into conceptual trials, and their political plea shows the path of current power. In several cases, it has been revealed by courts that, in particular, the prosecutor's office does not choose the assets when it comes to political orders. We will therefore take the initiative to ensure that those involved in such conceptual matters and in the preparation of fabricated accusations can be held accountable. What is true of what is written and what is said? Probably not half of it. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] The whole case is screaming politicalally motivated, premeditated, so it's a conceptual procedure. I have no illusions about the tools and methods used. It's an old-fashioned story. I think of a great film called "The Witness," directed by Péter Bacsó. Similar cases over the past few years could be translated into the second part. Let's see where we are. The background apparatus has already finished writing the script, now the task is to do the day-to-day small work, to organize media thematics, to leak half-truths and lies. I don't have any illusions about this either, I'll get it. After that, the D.A.'s got the lead again. Robbery, maybe handcuffs, guide. Do we remember the acquittals of the same politicians and the reprimands of the prosecuting judge's office? They didn't hear much about it, but it's true. If we go according to the script, they're gonna give us permission to do the show right now. The title of the film is Hunting for an opposition. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] Well, my fellow Members, after your decision, the show can begin. To you from the box, to me from the arena. There is only one unanswered question left: my opposition fellow Members, who will be next? Thank you.
u2014-09-15-54	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It's up to you to make a decision. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the congressman's immunity be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it suspends the immunity of Members of Parliament Dezső the Believer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament suspends the immunity of Dezső Szimély with 148 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 3 abstentions. [[15.50]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to elect a committee member. The Speaker of Parliament presented a personal proposal S/1297. by serial number. In this he initiates the National Assembly to the Committee of immunity, instead of Dr. István Józsa, MSZP, Sándor Szabó, vice-president of the Committee; Sándor Szabó, MSZP, instead of Dr. Gergely Bárándy, MSZP; Róbert Rácz, Fidesz, to the Committee on Budgets, Gyula Vantara, also Fidesz, to the Committee on Agriculture; to Gyula Vantara, Fidesz, instead of Béla Dankó, Fidesz, to be a member of the Committee. In addition, the National Assembly shall elect Mr Máriusz Révész Fideszes as a member of the Committee of the Legislative Committee, instead of József Tóbias, MSZP, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, MSZP, Member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts these proposals. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected our fellow Members as members of the committee with 175 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Now it's 15:53. We'll continue our work with interpellations. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Under the authority of paragraph 4 (a), Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, I/1234. Mr Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, has refused his interpellation with serial numbers since the motion does not fall within the remit of the Minister of Justice of Trócsányi. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy: " What would you do as owner? ' The title is given below. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2014-09-15-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In recent weeks, a number of reports have been published on the luxurious public money practices of the central bank. It turns out that the National Bank of Hungary would spend more than HUF 200 billion to support various foundations for more than 1.5 times this year's total higher education budget, for 90 billion forints for building renovation, for 18 billion forints he bought one of the most expensive office buildings in Budapest, but he doesn't feel sorry for the billions for his own polish, he spends billions for advertising purposes. I hope you agree that the President of the Central Bank of György Matolcsy is not responsible for financing the education of Matolcsyzmus. I hope we can also agree, Minister, that the Hungarian National Bank is not a real estate agency and it is not a task of real estate speculation. Dear Minister, The distribution of money was slylyly accelerated after the MNB's Supervisory Board's mandate had expired, so that the Board of Directors was out of board control. As the Minister for Public Finance, you had to know that the MNB purchased the Eiffel Palace office building more expensive than real value. He also needed to know that offshore companies appeared behind the transaction as well, according to press reports. Dear Minister, The independent operation of the central bank and the government must not mean that the competent minister closes his eyes if the central bank distributes public money in an amount of 100 billion in a way which cannot be derived from the legislation. I therefore believe that it is necessary to clarify to the public how it assesses the spending of the central bank in an unusual and unusual way. What do you think of such an unprecedented waste? What would you even do as a representative of the owner? I look forward to your reply.
u2014-09-15-56	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2014-09-15-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the Member States of the European Union, the independence of the central bank is a fundamental requirement. The government, and in particular the ministers responsible for economic policy, comment on the decisions of central banks as rarely as possible. At the same time, the owner of the central bank is the Hungarian State. The Ministry of National Economy, as a representative of the State of ownership, would in no way turn a blind eye to the unlawful use of public funds. Within the framework of the legislation, we will monitor and monitor the legal operation of the MNB, and we will continue to do so in the future. For your information, the social engagement of central banks in the European Union is not unprecedented. Allow me only a few examples, honourable Members, to summon you here. The Austrian central bank supports similar educational foundations and programmes, and even organises them with tens of thousands of participants each year. It also operates foundations for scientific purposes, the most well-known of which is the Fund for Research and Teaching with EUR 1.5 billion in fund capital. It also provides greater confidence in the central bank through publications, brochures and the purchase of advertising platforms. I propose to the Member that he multiply the basic amount of EUR 1.5 billion by the exchange rate of the forint. The Dutch central bank is co-founder and sponsor of a higher education institution, the Duisenberg School of Finance. The French central bank also stands out in the area of efforts to develop financial culture, which mainly involves workshops, conferences, cooperation agreements with educational institutions and is also embodied in sponsorship. A further parallel can be found between the public thinking and social objectives of the central bank and the activities of the French central bank. The Banque de France issued a resolution declaring its aim to develop economic and financial knowledge, equal opportunities and social diversity, and to support citizens' initiatives that increase the knowledge of the population, especially young people. Last but not least, I would like to mention that the UK central bank, Bank of England, buys large amounts of its own sovereign debt in addition to supporting the development of financial culture and taking up certain initiatives of civil society. It is important to underline that the amounts mentioned by the Member have not been spent by the central bank, but have increased wealth, so that the value remains in any case. Ladies and gentlemen, About HUF 200 billion is not lost to the foundations set up by the central bank, but is invested as a core capital and held up from its returns. In such cases, it is natural for the founder to want to place the money allocated to the foundations in stable, predictable, secure sovereign debt. These expectations are well met by Hungarian sovereign debt. As I said, a European central bank is an example of purchasing domestic sovereign debt, namely the Bank of England, but I would also like to recall that recently the European Central Bank, namely its President, Mario Draghi, announced that the European Central Bank will launch a similar programme where they will buy from sovereign debt in EU Member States. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your questions. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-58	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congressman Burány if he will accept the ministerial answer. [[16.00]]
u2014-09-15-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The answer was invaluable, as Minister of State said virtually not a word about the practice of the Hungarian National Bank. The practice of the Hungarian National Bank is governed by Hungarian laws, not by French and not by English laws. It is unprecedented that you can spend one and a half times the annual support of Hungarian higher education in order to carry out a specific economics training to support your own favorite sport. On this basis, the Hungarian National Bank could also build stadiums, and the law doesn't prohibit it, but obviously it would also ban the guarantee and rightfully. Mr. Secretary, today's news: around the purchase of the Eiffel Palace, the scandal continues to ring. The real estate company won EUR 15 million out of Hungarian taxpayers' money, and this contract was prepared by László Trócsányi's law firm. It grows together, and now this Panama is up to the sky. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. I don't accept the answer.
u2014-09-15-60	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the ministerial response to the interpellation. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 103 votes to 38, without abstention. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: " Why is the government constantly punishing the people of Budapest? " with the title " On behalf of the Prime Minister, Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Staudt Gábor... [[For signal:]] On behalf of Minister Miklós Seszták, State Secretary János Fónagy will respond. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2014-09-15-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Unfortunately, it seems that Budapesters are so important that they had to give the answer twice. Then, Mr State Secretary, the events of the past period have made it clear that Budapest is not nice to the government. Detention from public and EU funds, nationalisation of hospitals and schools are all steps that have not led to a positive impact on the living conditions of the people of Budapest. While you have set the goal of settling municipal debt stocks, it is also a pity for Budapest to allow another loan to be granted for the renewal of Metro 3. But the government is in constant battle not only with the people of Budapest, but also with their own mayor. In this war, Minister John Lazarus leads the government's armies. At the beginning of the year, the Prime Minister's Office took over the EU's medium-term developments in Budapest, which could result in the capital falling away from hundreds of billion-dollar funds. The reason is that Budapest is too rich and the EU does not support further developments. And if the mayor doesn't like this, go lobby in Brussels. However, you can breathe at the zoo in Budapest, because János Lázár said that he would support zoo development only because of István Tarlós. [[Noise.]] There is also a government commissioner responsible for large investments in Budapest in the person of Balázs Fürjes, but his name is mostly only available for investments serving the government's or the Prime Minister's personal ambitions. Such is the moving of the Prime Minister's Office to the Buda Castle, the stadium constructions or the nationalized integration of the City Park. From the mouth of Balázs Fürjes, however, there was an indisputable truth about the public safety of Népliget, including Budapest. I quote: " Népliget is the largest green area in Budapest, but we do not dare to let our children in even during the day, and we do not even venture into a significant part of it, because what happens there is mostly written down in criminal categories. " Unfortunately, these sentences can also be seen as a public security certificate for the capital headed by István Tarlós. Dear Secretary of State, János Lázár said that the government would support investment in Budapest, but Brussels would not allow it. According to the Fidesz Mayor, this is the opposite: Brussels supports what the Hungarian government supports. It's easy to see, Mr. Secretary, that someone around the Fidesz house isn't telling the truth. Therefore, I ask Mr. Secretary of State who is the hut, István Tarlós or János Lázár. I look forward to your honored and meaningful response. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-62	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-15-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Perhaps first the personal questions: these are two strong characters, unlike you, with a good sense of humor. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So please let them have their own dialogue. By the way, you asked for a meaningful answer. The Orbán government has supported, supported and will continue to contribute to the development and development of Budapest through hundreds of billion-dollar developments, debt transfers and job creation. During the three phases of municipal debt consolidation, the capital was freed from a total debt of HUF 218 billion between 2011 and 2014. This expenditure represented 16% of the total amount of national debt consolidation. In the current EU development cycle, the state supported 439 municipal development in Budapest in the amount of nearly HUF 400 billion, of which some 303 billion have already been paid out. It was the current government that supported the renovation of the Academy of Music by about HUF 12 billion, the Korányi project by some HUF 8 billion, the Várkert Bazaar by more than HUF 7 billion, the Lukács spa by 1 billion, including the Magdolna Quarter program of Józsefváros by HUF 4 billion. To invest these investments is, I think, simply unfair and unsubstantiated. The government has also contributed to the operation of public transport in Budapest, and we are well aware that Budapest transport affects not only 1.5 million people in Budapest, but another 1.5 million people in the agglomeration every day. There are hundreds of new buses in Budapest, comfortable and modern trams, trolleybuses, new metrocars, the establishment of interwoven tram transport in Buda, electronic ticket system, new ticket machine network, revitalization of Danube boat transport, parking development. What is more, we have completed the construction of metro line 4 looking back on the nearly two decades of history, and we have spent HUF 210 billion on this in our own governance cycle. About two thirds of the KözOP's resources for urban transport development - around HUF 550 billion - were allocated to the nation's capital. This does not indicate that the government would punish the capital in anything. In the cycle, 6 metropolitan transport projects total HUF 309 billion, 8 preparatory projects worth about HUF 4 billion. Some examples of health improvements: the reconstruction of Uzsoki Street Hospital has been completed. Several units of Szent Imre Hospital in Budapest have been renewed, and they have received a completely new wing. We have significant work ahead of us in this area, which we also provide from central sources. St. John's Hospital and North Buda Joint Hospitals, and this line could be long classified either with the Institute of the Blind or with the Institute of Oncology. Congressman, if this list means that someone is punishing the capital, then I wish all of us such punishments. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Gábor Staudt if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-15-65	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, you didn't answer the point, Mr. Secretary. This is not about two private people and the humor of two private people, it is about the Mayor and the Prime Minister's Office. And believe me, the citizens of Budapest are no longer in the mood to laugh. They see that there's been a lack of accountability. Even though he talked about new vehicles here, if you had to buy a bus, tram or trolley, you didn't happen to choose the products of Hungarian manufacturers. The citizens of Budapest can also see that the destruction of the BKV continues to take place and, for example, the outsourcing of bus services or the sale of property elements are included, but we could also talk about the deterioration of public security. We are now talking about the fact that they cannot enforce the existing legislation in Budapest, it is enough to think about the crime of lomi, which theoretically has the legal background to act against it, but neither the police nor the public authorities are taking any action, and we have not even talked about other particularly serious crimes, so I cannot accept the answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2014-09-15-66	Thank you, Congressman. So I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, 24 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: " Russian roulette must be stopped! " with the title " On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. But now Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2014-09-15-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In view of the aggression in Ukraine, Viktor Orbán's bluff is very difficult to take seriously. The Prime Minister said that in the military sense, we will be hawks, but economically we will be pigeons. But this is completely unrealized. Rather, it seems that Viktor Orbán is on a forced course. Hungary's military capabilities would run around a verbal sword ringing, while you economically turned our country into a completely addictive country. We do have an oil and gas consumption based on almost Russian imports, and you have decided to build nuclear power plant blocks here on Russian credit, and you feel sorry for renewable energy sources and have completely failed to modernise energy in Hungary. In practice, you have pushed our country into an addiction to such an extent that we have already become completely vulnerable, and we are expected to be completely paralyzed in the shadows of the Russian Empire in the future. You could say we're like a kite, where the wind blows, we're going. This is about what the country that you have built in foreign policy looks like. And it's clearly your responsibility. We are in an embarrassing, vulnerable situation, and I am very sorry, but I have to say, in many cases, what you are doing in foreign policy is a violation of our national self-esteem. I would like to remind you, Minister, that when the Orbán-Putin pact was signed in January, it was already clear what direction the Putin system was moving in, but when the credit agreement was concluded, the guns were already on fire. You guys just closed your eyes and went on the puppy road. Now, when it becomes increasingly obvious to us that EU sanctions for Russian aggression are cutting off Russian state banks from international funds, we are standing on the threshold of a construction project that should be financed by a bank owned by a Russian state. And you, with all due respect, Minister, are constantly repeating, like a broken cuckoo clock, that the restrictions do not affect the Paks project. Dear Minister, What exactly are you basing this assumption on? They have to assume that the Russian bank simply won't have the money to carry out the investment because of the sanctions, or it will be for a while, and then it will run out, and we will stay here with a semi-finished nuclear power plant and a lot of public debt. What exactly is the strategy of the Hungarian government that this scenario will not happen? [[In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs will be replaced by József Attila Móring.]] And what strategies do you even have? So it is clear now that they can no longer take the fact that this funding is going to happen. Is there finally a government work to be done on the need to put renewable energy sources in a position? Have you finally decided to give various types of energy carriers opportunities in this country? I would like to remind you that renewables are the future. They give jobs and strengthen our sovereignty, but they reduce our addiction. I think that the Orbán government should turn to renewables with much greater deployment and much less peacock around Putin.
u2014-09-15-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-15-69	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament! " We have no advantage in weakening Russia. Russia is a country with a rich past and special people. So we are not looking for a conflict with Russia. We are pleased to see a strong, growing Russia which contributes to international security and peace and which resolves disputes peacefully and diplomatically. "These are some of the sentences that President Barack Obama said before the NATO summit. [[Defiance in the ranks of Fidesz.]] This, I believe, would be enough to respond to your foreign policy comment, because the fact that we are not looking for conflict with Russia is not a Hungarian doctrine, but NATO's idea of how it will in the near future imagine relations with Russia, with Putin Russia, as you said. And as Prime Minister pointed out that Hungary is an intensive party to all NATO decisions and all the relevant decisions of the European Commission, I can tell you that our position on Russia is essentially taken in a form compatible with our allies in a foreign policy sense. This, of course, means NATO and the European Commission, the European Union. This is a good ally of Hungary. NATO has never criticized the role of the Hungarian Defence Forces, and has asked us more to say that if we have such good Hungarian soldiers, why there are no more of them, and why we are not spending more money on the defence, which, of course, can be relativised, because if I look at health and education, they are shouting for money, as they probably do to increase military public expenditure to 1.5 percent in the coming years, this seems to be an inevitable process. So we are good allies in Russia's policy to NATO. But, of course, there is a special Hungarian position, which is determined by reality and reality. I think that everyone should see precisely that if Hungary does not get gas from Russia, if gas does not come from the east and if there is no electricity from the east, the country will in no time be able to function. All of our allies who are asking us to account for why we are not more firm, if appropriate, or as Members of Parliament, we have to ask ourselves only one question about Russia's policy, and ask ourselves, if we cannot buy gas from the Russians, where can Hungary get the gas needed for the country's daily operation, given that there is no Western capacity, no Western pipelines. The European Commission was also unable to make the gas pipeline built between Hungary and Romania and Hungary and Croatia two-way, i.e. from Croatia or Romania to supply gas to Hungary. This is the case: Hungary has been professionally and irresponsiblely exposed to Russian gas in the last 40 years. In order to avoid the need for so much gas, as we are producing various other sources of gas, I think that there is a great need for an environmentally friendly nuclear power plant that can supply large industrial capacities, capable of producing electricity that is neither dependent on nor on Russian fuel alone. The 30-year debate is whether or not the nuclear power plant is needed in Hungary or whether it needs to be enlarged or not. Everyone in this Parliament needs to see that if we maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, we can provide up to 50 percent of our electricity demand. So we will have ample opportunity to make use of the alternative energy sources that the Congresswoman has asked for. The question is, if it weren't for the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, let's say, where would the country get that kind of electricity tomorrow, and how much would that cost? You forget that alternative energy in large quantities, alternative electricity is the luxury of the rich, given that Germany is subject to the production of green electricity by tens and hundreds of billions of innumerable euros. We strive for balance and harmony, which means that we want nuclear energy and renewable energy at the same time. The fact that you are concerned about Russia's solvency weakens the LMP's political position. Don't worry about Russia's solvency for now - let the Russians worry! [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-70	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the ministerial answer.
u2014-09-15-71	Thank you very much, Minister, for your comprehensive reply, and also for the example of Barack Obama, but the Prime Minister of this country is currently called Viktor Orbán, and I see that Viktor Orbán has led the whole country to a maximum forced course by bringing the Hungarian people into such a risky enlargement project, a project that does not strengthen, but reduce our sovereignty, and does not increase, but reduce our independence. I think it's a huge mistake that you put everything on the same page. And I asked you three questions, you said four minutes and 15 seconds, but you didn't answer one. He didn't answer whether they had a strategy for what would happen if the money didn't come and they couldn't do it; he didn't answer whether there was a government job to put the renewables in position; and everything I brought up was completely irrelevant to you, he said the same few sentences that I've been talking to you two years now. There's nothing new under the sun, and you're continuing the blind flight you've already done. I am only sorry that Hungary is governed by you, and so we will get there with you. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-72	Thank you very much. So I take it that the congresswoman does not accept the ministerial answer. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I told you, yes.]] I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll take the minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 97 votes to 20, with 10 abstentions. [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, Péter Cseresnyés, a representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the minister of the national economy: " Thanks to the cuts in debts, the decline in money has also stopped. How much more money is left in households as a result of the reduction of the rent? " with the title " Congressman Péter Cseresznyés has the floor.
u2014-09-15-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In Hungary inflation is still extremely low, and the decline in money has stopped in recent months. This also means that everyday life has become more predictable for families, pensioners and entrepreneurs, thus for people. inflation has not been as low in Hungary since 1968 as it has been in recent months. Price increases have stopped compared to last year's prices, and prices have even fallen in some cases, such as the price of flour, sugar, food oil or bread and the price of certain meat products have become cheaper. As a result, salaries and pensions also retain their value on a permanent basis, as they also have to pay less for food, wages and durable consumer goods. Last year, for example, wages rose by 3.2 percent due to a low inflation environment. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to remind everyone that electricity has doubled over the decade wasted by socialist governments, and the price of gas has tripled. In 2007 alone, average household energy prices increased by more than 24 percent. On the other hand, the reduction in household energy prices started last year led to the largest decrease by 12.5 percentage points in a year. In addition, this year will continue with the reduction of the rent. In April the price of gas decreased and in the coming weeks the price of electricity and district heating will be reduced. In part, households can use the money saved on overhead expenditure to increase their other consumption expenditure and partly their savings, which both stimulates economic growth and strengthens domestic financing capacity. In view of these, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much more money is left in households as a result of the reduction of the rent. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-15-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in terms of macro data, we can talk about very good figures in relation to Hungary, because it is important to say here that the rate of economic growth in the second quarter was 3.9 percent, which is the best figure for the European Union, the greatest result. At the same time, the employment rate in the European Union has increased most recently, with over 4 million 100 000 working in Hungary, with unemployment falling below 8 percent. But public debt is falling, and now the external trade balance is constantly positive. And it is true, as you said, that inflation figures are excellent and excellent, because indeed, since 1968, consumer prices have not even fallen in Hungary. There are several components to this. These good figures are primarily provided by the government's economic policy, but the fact is that European disinflationary processes also promote low inflation. But to the greatest extent, in Europe, in a unique way, the low inflation rates were caused by the reduction of the overhead. This is true, this was done in several steps by the government, and in 2014 Hungarian families were affected by HUF 300 billion for the whole year, and the Hungarian people paid less for domestic energy in 2014. And as a result of the continuous reduction of the rent, this amount will be even higher in 2015 as it will reach 340 billion; this will exceed 1 percent of GDP, which I think is unique in Europe. Low inflation has a number of other positive effects, such as increases in incomes that are much more effective and, even with lower income increases, the real value of income increases is higher. If we look back, we see that the increase in consumption, the significant increase in retail turnover, has also been caused by an increase in income for more than 400 thousand people in the public sector and the extension of family tax incentives and other tax reductions, such as personal income tax reductions, are also reflected here. But it could also be said that the monthly income of more than 200,000 people employed in public employment also generates and strengthens domestic consumption, thus putting the Hungarian economy on its safe feet. But here it is also necessary to mention the future solution to foreign currency loans and the steps that have been taken so far, which have also improved the solvency of hundreds of thousands of families. You can see, Mr. Congressman, that the government is trying to create it with a sufficiently coordinated work to make it easier for Hungarian families to live their daily lives, either by reducing their spending, or by increasing their income, or by reducing their taxes, or by solving the big social problem of foreign exchange credentials, and so it will be better and better for Hungarian families. In this spirit, we make decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Cseres to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-09-15-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The people I've spoken to over the past few months, most of them understand, appreciate the government's actions in the area of tax cuts. They expect this policy to continue, which aims to keep the price rise under control and to preserve the purchasing power of wages. This process also has an impact on the economy, as you said in your report, but the economic indicators also indicate this, so I accept your reply with thanks. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: " Do you really not see 400,000 passengers per day on Metro 3? " with the title " Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2014-09-15-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, According to the news, a government decision has been made that the development resources made available by the European Union will not be able to make a major investment in infrastructure in Budapest. The need to renovate Metro 3 is no longer disputed. In the last two years, the subway stopped fifty-three times since 2011, mainly for technical reasons. The Mayor of the city, István Tarlós, said in March this year that the metro is not yet life-threatening, but can become one. The mayor also said that if there's no other way, he's going to shut down subway 3. I think we are all aware of the problems that would be caused by stopping the 400,000-a-day passenger line in transport, so that the economy of the capital and the country as a whole. The operation of Metro 3 is of fundamental economic interest to Hungary. Compared to this, we have been hearing a public debate between the leadership of Budapest and the wallet responsible for the development of the European Union for months, but not a solution. There were accusations of unpreparedness, messages on Facebook from political leaders, lobbying in Brussels, and so on. I think this public message is quite unworthy of the 400,000 passengers a day who use subway 3 every day. They're mostly on the hard side of life. [[16.30]] I know that big government cars don't show the lives of underground travelers. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But that's no reason to turn their heads. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the passengers on subway 3. So far, the government has done one thing about Metro 3: it has contributed to Budapest's borrowing. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. To intervene:]] Thank you, Minister. It is not with the involvement of European Union funds, but with the indebtedness of Budapest that they imagine the solution of the programme. Meanwhile, Brussels rules are said to hinder the use of EU funds. The thing is, that's just not true. It would not be possible to carry out renovations under aid funds linked to the development of regions, but, for example, within the framework of the integrated operational programme for the development of transport. All in all, the government and the capital would have the opportunity, so far and beyond, to start the inevitable renovation very quickly with the involvement of EU funds. That is why I ask, Minister, whether the Government intends to allow the European Union to finance any major infrastructure development in Budapest. Can the 400,000 travellers who use metro 3 a day expect you to manage our European citizens' money responsibly and allow the metro 3 to be renovated as soon as possible instead of Budapest's indebtedness? Minister, thank you for your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-15-80	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-15-81	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to mention the relationship between me and Mr. Mayor with Mr. Gábor Staudt, which has indeed fallen to an unworthy level of the city and government. This basically feeds on the fact that I find it very difficult to take it if any candidate for mayor wants to make a policy either in the past or in the future from the need to protect the capital from the government. The capital has nothing to fear from this government, no one has to protect the capital from this government. There is no need to use this policy, because this, I think, leads to a false political result. My colleague, Mr János Fónagy, and my colleague, State Secretary, quoted precisely the figures with which the Hungarian Government, not because it was enforced by the capital body, but because we consider Budapest to be the capital of the nation, and we think it is particularly important in European and domestic comparison, so we think it is important to get everything that is available to the government: the take-over of 217 billion debts - this is the balance sheet of the Demszky era, 217 billion debts - and also 400 billion HUF support in the last four years alone. There is no other Hungarian city on earth that has received so much support from the government. The country's current capacity is measured, I believe, by this support. And a lot of people in the country think that I'm not one of them, that maybe the government is too supportive of the capital. As regards the supervision and future of EU funds, I would like our fellow politicians in the capital to be friendly with the European idea that in Brussels, the bureaucrats of the European Commission believe that Budapest is generating, in general, the average level of development of the European Union in many respects. Therefore, they radically reduce the support of Budapest, the central region and the town of Érd county, which is classified as Pest county in the central region. This means that the question is divided into two parts: whether the government would want to develop infrastructure in general, in Budapest, or, say, to build universities, or the capital is trying to develop infrastructure, there will be no money for this from Brussels. Traffic is the only exception. Traffic is the only exception. Budapest has the chance to take the necessary steps in connection with the transport changes in Budapest and the transport reform in Budapest. Any such concept, which will improve Budapest's transport and be eligible on a fixed track, will be supported and supported by the government. We are looking forward to a unified transport concept, which I hope is one of the main topics of municipal elections in Budapest. After all, Budapesters are very interested in how, in what form and in how long they can get from one point of the city to another. The government is ready to modernise transport in Budapest in European Union projects. The details of this will make sense to be discussed after 12 October, when the body of representatives will adopt a transport programme as I hope, joining the expectations of the European Union Committee, which says that a programme is needed either for social development in general or for transport development in general. As far as metro 3 is concerned, there is no sane person in this country who would question the need to renovate subway 3. EU funds can only be used in part. The capital, given that its debt has been transferred, is creditworthy, and for credit, the Hungarian taxpayer community, on behalf of the government and the government, is prepared to guarantee and guarantee. If the capital does not pay, it means that all Hungarian taxpayers pay for it. We support the renovation of Metro 3 and basically the preservation of the technical state and the guarantee of safety. We agree with you and any politician in the capital. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-82	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the ministerial answer.
u2014-09-15-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your answer. I can't accept it. I would have expected a clear yes and no from you before the municipal elections, but not only from me, but also from the voters of the capital. There's a fundamental problem between us, and that's what the metropolitans understand. [[Intruding, yes, you can. Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And the fact that in the short term you thought, Minister, that your credit rating is increasing for the city, but no, you're not telling the truth. Because the capital of Hungary, Budapest, has never been through such a loss of wealth. Over 600 billion have been taken away, which cripples and destroys its economic independence for the capital. You are also mistaken, Minister, and your perception of Budapest. If you refuse what the opposition side otherwise rejects, that the capital must be confronted with the countryside, that is fine. But then you have to give back the capital's economic power. Because whatever development this government is making in the next four years in the country, it won't be able to sustain it if they destroy the capital. Historically, Budapest was the economic and political centre of Hungary. If the capital is destroyed, another part of Hungary will be ruined tomorrow. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-84	Thank you very much. Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 99 votes to 27, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: " Is the government introducing poor and rich supply in health care? " with the title " Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2014-09-15-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, During the summer political cucumber season, we managed to hide the news, which is one of the sure signs of further destruction of health care: the government will allow health care to become more speedy without a word, with the approval of surgeries that have been carried out in addition to the waiting list. In the summer, we learned about it, finished its test operation, and the form of care at the clinics of the University of Szeged was fully operational, that patients can purchase services or surgery for a fee in the framework of the voluntary extra work of the doctors of the university. The example is sticky, since Uzsoki Street Hospital also receives patients with the following advertisement: " Do you want to wait six months for a hip transplant? One of the best orthopedic surgeons in the world will operate right away. It can heal in a luxury environment. Direction price: 1.4 million forints. " The problem is that this system was not designed to reduce the time spent on the waiting list and not for the benefit of patients, but for the benefit of the institutions. Another problem is that this doubles the supply system in public health. Such duplication of benefits - i.e. those who pay, move forward faster, who do not - adds to the thick waiting lists - has produced one result: the government has created multi-speed healthcare, i.e. that can be divided into the poor and the rich, all in state institutions, state resources and state employees. Such poor and rich distribution does not serve equal opportunities, and even makes hospitals interested in waiting because of revenue. The government is unfair when it says to the insured person that you have to pay twice as much if you don't want to wait. This will eliminate the solidarity-based health insurance system. [[16.40]] This leads to work in leisure, health care for the rich to the detriment of the doctor's regeneration or to the deterioration of quality in the health of the poor. The above problem shows that the government still regrets the HUF 8-10 billion needed to shorten health waiting lists, and continues to regret the real wage-setting and keeping doctors home for taxpayers and insured people. Often it seems that the government is concerned about health care, and this is seen in the absence of answers to such problems. Dear Minister, Why did the government set up multi-speed healthcare for poor and rich care? When are you going to spend money on shortening and eliminating waiting lists? Finally and most importantly, why does the government, or rather Sanda, want to eliminate former solidarity-based health insurance and smuggle the market model into it? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-15-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The government's aim is to maintain health based on national risk community and social solidarity. The person who pays the health contribution, the person who pays the social security contributions, will continue to expect health benefits as much as everyone else. What had inherited problems with this government, however, was indeed the waiting list question. We have tried to improve this situation from several directions. On the one hand - you may have read in the summer news - that healthcare received a significant surplus of HUF 11.83 billion. Most of this is spent by the government, hospitals spend on, on the one hand, the payment of hospitals' various public debts, which were already expired on 31 May, and on the other hand, the debts of suppliers over 90 days can be paid by many hospitals in Hungary with this significant amount. What remains of this will obviously also be used to shorten waiting lists on the part of hospitals, but the overwhelming debt that is in one hospital or another can make a significant reduction. We have also launched a targeted programme, you may know it, and it was 786.5 million forints to reduce waiting lists that we provided as an additional resource in 2013 and only to reduce waiting lists. This programme was targeted, as it targeted 1,300 patients who were at the end of the waiting lists, who have been waiting for the longest time, for example, to perform hip and knee replacement surgery. In their case, 37 percent immediately came forward to perform the surgery, 16 percent said that they wanted to undergo the surgery later. For those who were denied surgery, we were able to find new patients so that the procedure would take place for them, so that in total 3,000 patients waiting for surgery could be moved forward. I also have good news, Congressman, from 1 October this year, there will be another billion forints to carry out immediately the interventions of the people at the very end of the waiting lists. This means that 3,400 more patients will receive the treatment that the waiting list said would have taken after a later time. With this, the government has been able to help patients waiting on waiting lists at a number of speeds and targets. You know that legislation now also provides for the possibility that in the event that someone is waiting on a waiting list, but if their health or other illnesses justify taking the front of the waiting list and performing the surgery immediately, this can also be done. Which means any request for compensation, these are sources of income for foreign patients in the first place, but it is a very important requirement that this should not be a burden on the time and capacity to be paid to patients from Hungarian social security. First, the patient who pays to the Hungarian social security fund must be provided for everyone in the health care system, and then foreign paid patients can come after it, but one half of those income also adds to the wages of doctors and the other contributes to the costs of the institution. We can therefore say, honourable Member, that this government has indeed acted effectively to shorten waiting lists. You may also know that there is a health development of HUF 300 billion at 400 sites, so we are also trying to improve the conditions so that health equipment and equipment can be used to heal as much as possible. You know that we also try to keep doctors who wish to go abroad with a residency program, a young doctor can receive 100,000 or even 200,000 forints if he agrees to stay here in Hungary and does not accept gratuity money. I believe that this is indeed a way of strengthening the social security health system based on social solidarity and funded from social security funds, based on a national risk community. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-15-89	Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your reply with the best of passion, and I am very sorry that Mr Gábor Zombor, not his fellow State Secretary, was able to come here and talk to you instead, because he could have done this, and as a beginner Member I might have expected a more prepared answer. There was a constant cover of numbers here, and you promised me $1 billion instead of the 8-10 that you needed. If Gábor Zombor had been here, he could have said that he had said before me what I had said, why they didn't agree with what he said, because in his sermon he said in public that he was in favour of social solidarity, which is typical of health care, and he laughed face-to-face at the establishment of the DMC private hospital with other prominent health politicians, so the Fidesz health politicians are at the forefront of duplication. But we can safely return to 2008 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2008, Viktor Orbán himself said that healthcare is not a business for them (The President bells the doorbell). . Looks like Fidesz is still dealing with health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. So I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's answer. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 99 votes to 26 with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources entitled "Tanguage start, textbook supply. " Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor.
u2014-09-15-91	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The issue of public education is always of great public interest at the beginning of a school year in September, and rightly so, as people know that the future of the country will be exactly as it is today's school. Last year's and last year's academic years brought a lot of new things, and they were the subject of a constant public talk. Here, too, in the House of the country, there were words and sentences, sometimes with objective authenticity, sometimes with false content, often with boredom. I would like to highlight just a few of the most well-known changes and innovations: education in our system, we introduced everyday physical education, ethics or belief and ethics classes started, schools are open until 4-5 p.m., the community work of high school students started, the state took over the maintenance and operation of most of the institutions many times, in line with the expectations of many years, the pedagogical career took effect accompanied by a very significant increase in teachers' pay, the new National Basic School Plan came into force and, together with it, from this academic year, new generation or experimental textbooks entered the schools, this year 61 and so on. I've been through a few of these myself. I'll admit, I like them. Their colorful, diverse imagery, their language for children, their thinking and creative questions and tasks, their traceable structure at first glance satisfy the needs of modern pedagogy, not to mention the extremely short time it took to produce them. We commend the Institute and the populous creative staff and welcome in advance the intention to correct them. But now some people are messing with the idea of a huge apparatus for error hunting and claim that experimental textbooks are of poor quality. You can also find knots in search of misplaced sentences, one or two on hundreds of pages. In the meantime, it was also found that the errors selected were found in previous approved textbooks, at least most of them. [[16.50]] I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State whether our actions will continue in the new academic year. When the NAT comes into force, will it happen, and when will the graduation reform take place? How are experimental textbooks planned to be tested and finalised? I look forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-15-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Perhaps the whole summer was for certain media or political groups to try to find something wrong with the start of the school year in September, to stir up some scandal somewhere, and to their greatest regret and to our greatest joy, we could not find it. It began by ringing the alarm bell about the textbook supply, the arrival of textbooks early in summer, that the textbooks would not arrive at the schools in time. And just as last year there was only a 0.25 percent mistake in delivering textbooks, so this year - to their regret and to our joy - they couldn't see happy little children who didn't need to learn, and annoying parents who were annoyed by the non-arrival arrival of textbooks, but they could start their education at all schools in order, and the new book distribution system worked well. Then they tried and even published calls on the Internet, started websites to find faults in one of the new experimental renewed textbooks. This failed, so older textbooks were drawn up, and they finally found questionable points in books that were approved on the one hand in 2006, 2008 or 2009, so that when they called the Prime Minister of Hungary Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gordon Bajnai, they tried to show up parts of textbooks taken out of the Internet as errors in the current textbook supply or textbook preparation, and they tried to mock the current entire textbook development team, which were not really related to the current licensing team, but the work of previous years. And somehow in 2006, 2008 and 2009, the same people did not hold a press conference to demand the immediate withdrawal of these textbooks, speaking against the then government. I think that not only the timely delivery of textbooks is a success, because it is a task that is good for every country if the organisation that has done this is able to provide it precisely, but also the introduction of new, experimental textbooks, to which the congresswoman has also asked. This is a completely new way of developing home textbooks; the only criticism we have heard from the opposition is that it was done too quickly. But please, if it's done in time and there's no fault in it, then why is it a problem if something is finally done quickly and on time in this country? However, a new quality in textbook development is the area of experimental textbooks, because here we have involved about a thousand or a few hundred teachers in this work, not for free, they receive an extra HUF 40,000 a month because they are involved in this textbook development. They lead a working day in which they give feedback to the textbook developers of the Institute for Education and Development, which parts are stronger in teaching the textbook, which are weaker, how students react to each methodological innovation, what part of the book they consider to be good, and which parts are considered to be improved. This was a whole new, more advanced, not invented by us, but the concept of Finnish research and development teacher philosophy, which we have implemented here, that all teachers who undertake this are co-authors of these books, and these books are developed over the years so that every student who participates in this will have their own feedback on the textbook development parts. They haven't found any flaws yet, so I think they've done a good job at OFI staff. I think they should be thanked, too, because they really had to do a fast-paced job. These textbooks were completed in time, they were delivered in time, and we hope that the hundreds of teachers who are already leading the working day will not only be pleased that their salary has already increased twice this year on 1 January and 1 September, but that the extra income they receive for their work on the development of education will also come in handy in the family register. I think the start of this year's school year was a success just for that reason. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-09-15-95	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, all the more so, because you have confirmed the experience that I myself, along with many people here, have experienced for four years that the opposition has always had chaos and collapse visions. [[Dr. István Hiller: It will be! It will be.]] While the schools were working well, the teaching continued and nothing collapsed. [[Dr. István Hiller:]] I was also glad to hear that everything continues and I have experienced it. As for experimental textbooks, allow me to quote one or two letters that the authors received in the first days to receive. The director of a settlement in the vicinity of Lake Balaton writes: " Let me congratulate you and your team on the good looking, beautiful and, as we have watched, useful, well-built, carefully edited textbooks. " A college student, who is not a teacher, also took the trouble, took hold of it, congratulated me, and writes that " finally a demanding, transparent, relatively cheap series was born for the little ones in the first to second grade, with lovable, sweet, cute drawings ". [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Stork Camp Mistakes!]] Therefore, there is already a lot of experience that praises these experimental textbooks, and the intention to correct them is also very right. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. So you accepted the Secretary of State's reply. [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Dear Parliament, Although the time for interpellation has passed, but according to the house rules, the candidate independent representative still needs to be given an opportunity, so I give the floor to independent congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, who submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: " Would you be willing to review the position of Paks regarding the Russian loan agreement as a result of Russian aggression? " with the title " The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by János Lázár, Head of the Prime Minister's Office, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi has the floor.
u2014-09-15-97	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Minister, You didn't make the wrong decision for the first time six months ago when you were in government. The credit agreement on the expansion of the Paks power plant is one of the most influential decisions of their governance, which goes far beyond your political path. This decision pushes generations into vulnerability to Russia. It serves me, because it is immeasurably expensive, which puts every Hungarian family into debt at least one million forints. It serves because it makes you permanently dependent on Russian energy sources, even though other sources are now available from many parts of the world. It serves because it kills hundreds of billions in the use of an outdated energy source, where now much cheaper and safer energy sources are available to Hungary. When we agreed with the Russians six months ago, we were well aware of the anti-democratic, repressive nature of the Putin power. In the last six months, however, the Russian power machine has turned even further. Russia shall be subject to the conditions set out in Annex XXI. Started the first European conquest war of the century against neighbouring Ukraine in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. As complex as the post-Soviet political situation is, it cannot be resolved with war. The great historical result of Europe over the last 50 years is that it has built a culture of negotiated, peaceful settlement of problems instead of war solutions. The culture of cooperation means security and the future for us Hungarians, the victims of many, many wars. Russia's new war brings a world of suffering. Vladimir Putin brutally violates human rights, peoples' right to self-determination and European standards of civilization with his war. Rights for which even Fidesz himself stood 20 years ago in the case of the Balkans. More than 2,000 people have already died in the war in East Ukraine that the Russians started. Your statements also show today that fighting a common war in NATO bonds is also important for the Hungarian government today. Mr. Secretary. You can play to two gates for a while, you can paddle between Europe and the Russians, but when there's a war, when people die, a serious leader has to be able to decide. You must decide that the aggressor will put Hungary next to Russia or our Western allies. [[17.00]] Over history, Hungary's leaders have been on the wrong side too many times. Don't make the mistake of your ancestors. They can't throw away our freedom at the change of regime for an old-new [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] By building up vulnerability. We have the following questions. Are you willing to review the Russian loan agreement with Paks as a result of Russian aggression? Are they willing to do this? [[The President shall again indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] To publish all the Paks documents?
u2014-09-15-98	Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-99	Are they open to finally starting a national discussion on the Paks case?
u2014-09-15-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-09-15-101	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, The question gives me the opportunity to complete my reply during the past, and to draw your attention to some of the issues in particular. Before I do this, I would like to go back to whether Hungary is able to guarantee security for itself and for Hungarians. I believe that the Hungarian Parliament made the most important decision in terms of the security of Hungarians when it opened up the most valuable, the possibility of citizenship for all Central European Hungarians. The biggest security guarantee for Hungarians living in Transcarpathia today is that they can be citizens of Hungary in the European Union, which is why Hungarians in Transcarpathia and Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin are lining up. It is in our fundamental interest that we can provide this greatest security guarantee beyond the need for autonomy, so that as many as possible become citizens of the European Union. After all, we expect both the European Union and NATO to give the security guarantee, not only when it is necessary to stand in the Middle East, but also when Hungary is in danger, on the basis of our decision confirmed by referendums in 1999 and 2004. On your question, I would like to draw attention to the fact that I do not think that we should be more pope than the Pope. If the government of the United States of America, NATO, the great powers of Western Europe are trying to consolidate their relationship with Russia, and they are not looking for conflict, but for agreement in Russia, I do not think that we have any interest in going beyond this border. The parliamentary forum is not the best place to hold a debate that has been depressing the leaders of Hungary for 400-500 years about how they can stand between the East and the West. It is worth the mention of XVII. To shoot centuries-old literature, the leaders of Hungary torn to three, Pázmány, Miklós Esterházy or even Gábor Bethlen, had a dilemma in this connection between the 15-year-old and the 30-year-old war between West and East. Professor Hiller can give a briefing to Members of Parliament who are lacking. [[Delightful, sporadic applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] So this dilemma is not new. But the dilemma is basically that we must see that, as a member of NATO and the European Union, we have basically our own interests and must stand up for our own interests. The congresswoman asked if we were willing to reconsider. On 24 November 2013, the Government of Hungary sent the terms of Russian-Hungarian nuclear energy agreement and cooperation to the European Commission for notification, in Hungarian: for approval in Brussels, far before the Russian-Ukrainian conflict started. Can we not cooperate with the Russians? Can a country that depends 80 percent on the Russians every hour of every day in terms of gas consumption be allowed to do so? There is a similar dependence on electricity consumption. And then we didn't talk about other economic contexts, like what we're selling to the Russians, how vulnerable or how much responsibility we might have. I ask the other way round, Congresswoman, whether as legislator to you: do you think we can do this in your opinion that we are not cooperating with Russia in any way? I think that reasonable cooperation in the interests of the country should be sought. Following the 2009 parliamentary decree, after five years of preparatory work, we came to the conclusion that maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was inevitable. It takes nine years for the investment to take place, 60 years for the nuclear power plant, and in the European and US financial markets we have obtained a completely exceptional and unique 30-year loan. Today, Hungary would have received only a 10-year loan from US banks under market conditions. If you have a financially competitive offer with the Russians, please apply to it, whoever it is in the world. There was no financially competitive offer. There could have been technical considerations, but we are thinking about a project to have the right resources and precisely to increase independence rather than dependence on the country. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-102	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2014-09-15-103	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. [[János Lázár: Next time! Moore from the benches of the governing parties.]] The fact is that this loan agreement and the preparation of the Paks investment now are not needed at all until around 2020, there is still a lot to think about, and it is safe to withdraw from it. The Parliamentary Forum is, by the way, a valid place and appropriate place to discuss all issues. As far as historical sensitivity is concerned, let me quote a detail of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech on the same subject six years ago in the same House. Orbán said: "It is not possible to conclude an agreement with the Russians that will be encrypted for 10 years; so that we cannot know exactly where, who, how our lives are affected, and on what economic calculations we can expect Hungary to rise or weaken. This is our life. Those who take away the right to know reality from us, elected representatives, are actually making a coup in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] constitutional order against the representatives of the people and the entire Hungarian people. " I'm sorry I couldn't accept the answer. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2014-09-15-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 101 votes to 20, with 14 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now we move on to immediate questions. Sándor Burány, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question: " Whose money is it? " The title is given below. The President appointed Vice-President Ádám Balog to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding to it, or whether he will personally ask the President for an answer.
u2014-09-15-105	Mr President, György Matolcsy will have to appear in Parliament sooner or later, and sooner or later he will have to answer. I'll wait for the President of the Central Bank. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-106	Thank you very much. The President shall reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The new school year began with a scandal in Miskolc. " The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[Dr. László Varga: I accept.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. I therefore give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2014-09-15-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In his reply to Rose Hoffmann earlier, he said that he did not find scandals at the start of the new school year. Let me tell you one thing that you probably missed, as the Kazinczy Ferenc of Miskolc has become a national scandal from the election of the director of the Hungarian-English Primary School of Two Teaching Languages. The tender announced earlier, which was declared ineffective by KLIK, and then appointed a school principal whose application was not supported by anyone, neither by the faculty nor by the faculty. The question arises as to why KLIK has appointed him to lead the institution until the launch of the new application. I ask this because there could not have been a technical reason for this decision, it is completely irrational, because so far, the professional staff leading the institution, the teachers also ran this school in recognition of their parents, did a well-known professional job. He was handed over to a teacher who didn't teach at school for a minute, he doesn't know the institution, and - I'm telling you again - neither the parents nor the faculty support it. It's just an addition to the fact that you've recently passed the retirement age. You can find that out from the school's website, by the way. Teachers and parents are confused about what happened, teachers are intimidated, they don't dare speak in this case. Parents wrote an open letter to Minister Zoltán Balog, who now dared not or refused to reply. He didn't even answer the parents. The parents were planning a medal-lighting operation for last week, and no one answered that either. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Shame!]] I, along with the municipality representative Norbert Földesi myself, sent an open letter to KLIK to explain why this procedure is justified. They didn't. So I'm forced to ask you why, despite all the protests, a school principal is appointed in this way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[17.10]] How could he still be entrusted with the administration of the institution if his application was inadequate? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Why don't you deal with the opinions of parents and educators?
u2014-09-15-108	Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-109	Why don't you answer the questions you're asking? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-15-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-15-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Something doesn't turn into a national scandal because ATV and Clubradio are dealing with it, I think it's a conceptual difference between our attitude. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's because the parents care about it!]] As regards the specific case of Miskolc, you know very well that this proposal has also been announced on the Internet, on the one hand, on the Kozigallas.gov.hu and, on the other hand, on the Education and Culture Gazette. Several people came forward and expressed their views on this. One opinion is what you say, the other professional opinion took a different view, said that the former director was able to achieve less development [[Dr. Laszlo Varga: What? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What is the professional reason?]] , and the new one's application has several evaluable development directions, but finally it was decided that the tender had been declared ineffective and thus did not become the appointed director of the institution. This situation must be resolved. A temporary, temporary solution must then be established, which, of course, is also possible under the law on the system of national public education, and this is how a temporary leader was appointed to the head of the school, since the teaching must start and the school should continue to function. Therefore, another application will be launched, where, obviously, not only the former candidates but also anyone else can be tested, and anyone else can apply for the principal of this school. But I think you feel, as I do, that it is not good for this institution to remain without a leader, and this is even a legally unthinkable situation, and that is why we had to appoint a leader here, which would otherwise comply with the legal requirements, to the head of the institution. The legislation will, of course, give everyone the opportunity to make a request for review, but this can happen if there are concerns about the legality of the whole procedure, but this has not been raised, and therefore the review procedure cannot be effective. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Varga has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, You said there was a supportive opinion, and there was no supporting opinion. I would like to say that what is public about this matter today is that no one in the faculty has supported the appointment of the principal, so I would like to ask you one more question in this case and everyone who can answer that question, who otherwise supported it. Did the municipality of Miskolc pass an opinion, the city administration, the notary, that he should be supported? Why do we have to support this principal at all costs, since she has had a similar application to the head of Földes Ferenc High School. Then it ended with the fact that after months of scandals, the current and former director was eventually reappointed. Then they backed down. What I can tell you is that based on what you said here today, you are not interested in the opinion of teachers, you are not interested in the opinion of parents, you are not interested in the opinion of the people there, and I see that you are not interested in the opinion of the Miskolcs, so that is unacceptable to us. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-114	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2014-09-15-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, These are options for opinions, but the decision is clearly in the hands of the KLIK, to be more precise, the law states that the minister himself may decide to do so, but the Minister has decided in the rules of organisation and operation to delegate this decision to the Secretary of State responsible for public education, so he can decide who to appoint to the head of an institution. As I said before, there was no appointment during the tendering procedure, but it was declared ineffective and a temporary leader was appointed. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why do they appoint someone that no one supports?]] who has received his credentials for this, the notice has been given on the spot, so that they can prepare for the academic year to continue. So I think that there has been a full legal process, and there is no reason for the next academic year to lead the institution in a new tender procedure, even a different leader from the previous one. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You must appoint the person you support. Is that too much to ask?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-15-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " What will become of prosperity here? " The title is given below. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2014-09-15-117	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I would ask you about the fact that when Fidesz went to power, it campaigned to reduce the state's debt, and later György Matolcsy confirmed this several times as a minister of the national economy. I'd like to quote the data to you. Unfortunately, it doesn't show that the government debt has been reduced. At the end of the first quarter of 2010, Hungary's public debt was 82 percent, then your first Kálmán Széll plan, the second Kálmán Széll plan came. In this, the ambitious idea was that public debt would now fall to 65-70 percent of GDP. Compared to this, if we look at the Hungarian national banking publications recorded by György Matolcsy as central bank leader in the meantime, we can see that the public debt is above 85%, even though we have been constantly hearing from various government representatives over the past four years that public debt is falling, public debt is falling. We have seen an absolute increase, and also as a percentage of GDP. If government debt increased from 82 percent to 85 percent, it would be a clear increase, it would be difficult to call it anything else. In the meantime, the government has put in place so-called corrective measures, has constantly reduced the Hungarian economy, some tax groups have reached historical record levels in Hungary and also in the European Union, and let us think that there is no 27 percent VAT anywhere. From these austerity measures, more than half a million Hungarians fled abroad as economic refugees, not out of an adventure, as the Prime Minister put it, but because they had no choice but to pay for their livelihoods. Then how is it that the government debt is falling when the numbers show exactly the opposite? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-09-15-119	Dear fellow Member, The rule of measuring public debt is that at the end of each year we have to look at the extent to which it is measured. The reduction of public debt is not an optional practice; the Hungarian law on the stabilisation of the economy requires the reduction of public debt as a statutory obligation. I suggest that we wait until the end of the year and see what the level of public debt shows. I believe that the government will be able to comply with the legal obligation and that, at the end of 2014, the public debt will be lower than it was at the end of 2013. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-120	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Volner in return.
u2014-09-15-121	Mr. Prime Minister, with all due respect, we have heard over the past four years that the public debt will be lower, let us believe that it will be smaller, and now we do not see that it has become smaller, on the contrary, that the public debt has increased. Let's be honest, the kind of fight that you guys declared on the front of public debt has failed. Here, I would remind you that our public debt has also been increased in proportion to GDP by the government cutting us to the bottom of HUF 3000 billion of private pension fund assets, and this money has simply gone away, we have sacrificed it on the altar of the fight against sovereign debt, and the government has imposed restrictions on the population. Once again, it's not for adventure that Daddy goes to London to do the dishes while Mom raises the kids at home, it's for making him an economic refugee for your government and for the socialists. It is therefore clear that political responsibility must be borne by you and by the socialists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-122	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-123	Congressman, as far as the issue of responsibility is concerned, you know, in the profession in which you work, you are called to account and measured by people going to choose. Our responsibility has been measured by the people. It was measured in 2010 and measured in 2014 - twice in a row, in the parliamentary elections and in the elections to the European Parliament - so we look people in the eye and take responsibility for governance. Thank you for your support, we will continue our work, and we will also face the next challenge. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-124	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: " What has this year's school year brought? " The title is given below. The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-09-15-125	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2014-09-15-126	He'll take it. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. [[17.20]]
u2014-09-15-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, In the spring and early summer, the LMP has pointed out on several occasions that in the previous academic year the distribution of textbooks was abominable, and the number of students who remained late and without textbooks for a long time was terrifying. This has been supported on several occasions and by a letter from Parliamentary Secretary of State. We have explained our efforts, our concern not only here in Parliament, but also in many areas, and we trust that this may have contributed a little bit to the fact that, by now, we must say, after all the negative prejudices, we have come to congratulate you on the fact that this is the current dissemination... Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvári's mouth is so full of praise from a small party. But is it a compliment when it comes to what goes on, so the textbooks get to the students in time, and this happens by contributing to the police, contributing to public workers, and using significantly more resources than before? I mean, not only the cost of police and public workers, but also 20% of the profit margin for textbook distribution. Previously, it was significantly lower, and it was also paid by the market, the textbook publishers. But there is a significant problem with the quality of textbooks. What's said here, what you can see in the press, it's just the tip of the iceberg, these so-called bloopers, these stereotypes and offensive content. There is a much bigger problem: structural, content and language. The language is difficult to understand, and the text of the textbooks from 20 years ago can be found in the current books. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-09-15-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We welcome praise and congratulations from any faction, so thank you very much for the LMP. Last year, it was 0.25 percent - as I mentioned above - the percentage of errors of the Library Provider is now much smaller, and you know that the quality difference compared to last year is that experimental textbooks can be downloaded and printed for free on the website of the Institute for Education and Development. This has become a national public domain, not a variety of textbook publishers protect their own textbooks with copyright rights, but books developed from public money are available free of charge to everyone. You said the distribution was more expensive because the key to the library supply was 20 percent. You may have forgotten to add that what remains of this 20 percent of the library provider after paying the costs will then be used to develop the school libraries. Now I can't tell you exactly how much, but between HUF 120 million and HUF 200 million will be the money that the library provider will distribute to all the school libraries, and there can be books, textbooks, literature, anything else. This will not wander into the pockets of private service providers, but will strengthen school libraries. I think it's a source big enough for everyone. And the more the Kello works, not only do the students get to the books sooner, but also the school libraries get richer. As to the content of the textbooks: I do not know whether you have opened these experimental textbooks, honourable Member, but the content of these, the breaking, the quality of these books, is already in line with the expectations that a current student can lay against such a book. They are much better structured, better taught to young people. If you look at the book that you learned from or I learned from, and you look at the current books, heaven and earth, it's not comparable. It's not in vain that the mistakes we've already discussed here today, which have been in the press, have not been found in the experimental textbooks, but in the old textbooks approved five, six, eight years ago. There has been no qualitative criticism from any relevant organisation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-130	Thank you very much. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-131	The quality of the experimental textbooks: I think I will draw attention to the nature of the experiment in the first place. We're talking about over 100,000 students they're experimenting with. An experiment in such a system should have affected a significantly smaller number of people. We are talking about textbooks created in a few months, so it is very unlikely that they will be good textbooks. It's not that it's not colorful enough. It has structural problems, approach problems that cannot be improved. The level of feedback is that each month you write a given number of teachers with some feedback about these, it is not appropriate. This will not be sufficient to be of sufficient quality for up to two years. By the way, the way they bypassed their own government decrees bypassing the accreditation of the textbook is in itself extremely outrageous and disproportionate.
u2014-09-15-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear House, You can't deny that these books are much cheaper than the previous ones, because here you have to pay 350-400 HUF for an experimental textbook. You know as well as I do that 60 percent of students now have their textbooks for free, it's a huge relief. It takes half a billion forints less out of the parents' wallet, while the state also spends one billion forint less on these textbooks. The experimental nature of experimental textbooks: we teach children and not textbooks. The experiment refers, more specifically, to renewal, to the fact that the author of this textbook is not only the person who is marked on the cover of the textbook, but to all the hundreds of teachers with whom we have signed a contract and give them a salary supplement in order to drive a working day and tell them where these textbooks need to be improved. We bought this model from Finland, where all teachers also do research and development work. These teachers, who volunteered to do this - because here the proportion who use experimental textbooks was also a voluntary proportion, there was no requirement in this regard - they themselves become co-authors of this textbook development, so I think Hungary will have one of the most prestigious textbooks in Central Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Rogán, Fidesz's representative, group leader, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question: "Does any Hungarian household deserve a reduction? " The title is given below. Mr. Antal Rogán, Mr. Congressman, has the floor.
u2014-09-15-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Over the last two years, the second Orbán government has been able to reduce the household costs increased to a multiple of the Gyurcsány era to an unprecedented extent at European level. In total, the price of nine public services has decreased in Hungary. The most important of these are the prices of residential gas and electricity in three steps, but overall they decreased by more than 25 per cent, i.e. by more than a quarter; the cost of district heating will be reduced by 23 per cent compared to December 2012, with the new reduction of 1 October 2012 and the fees for drinking water, sewers, chimney sweeps, bottled gas, sniffed waste and waste transport decreased by 10 per cent. These are important things, and let us not forget that we were all driven by the objective of delivering overhead costs to an affordable level compared to the rate of earnings. Earlier, during the Gyurcsány government, Hungarian households in Europe paid the highest overhead costs in proportion to their earnings throughout Europe. Dear Minister, However, there are areas where, in view of the specific situation, all aspects of the reduction are not fully applicable. One of these condominiums in my constituency is the Honvéd Street and the HM block house on Balaton Street, where the Ministry provides the heating service, where, of course, I understand the aspect of the Ministry - who could not live with the reduced gas price as an institutional large consumer - but I think that the reduction of the rent is due to everyone. This problem was also faced by local authorities with heating systems operated by them, yet they bridged the problem and reduced heating costs. A new investment will now be made, with which this will be resolved in the future. I would like to ask the Minister, going back over the past years and a half, if the reduction in the rent for the residents of the condominium since 1 January 2013 will be validated retroactively in the heating account. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende.
u2014-09-15-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, As a Member of Parliament and as a member of the Government, I am committed to the policy of reducing the cost of the rent, and in particular to the fact that we are able to pay the lowest costs throughout Europe. The problem that has arisen in this case is of a legal nature, and in many ways we have tried to bridge it. [[17 .30]] As far as I'm concerned, I'm not entitled to a reduction in the rent. What I'm buying for a forint, I can't exactly give it to someone else under the Public Finance Act for 80 pennies. But I am happy to inform you that we have created its technical potential and financially supported the condominium to detach its heating system. From 15 October this year, this problem has been solved once and for all. I would also like to inform you that I have found the legal way in which the reimbursement of the percentage of the cost reduction in the October account of this year will be granted to the condominium. This total is HUF 6 177 773. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I think that this embarrassing problem can be solved. [[The President shall re-notify the expiry of the time.]] At the same time, it is important...
u2014-09-15-138	Thank you very much, Minister.
u2014-09-15-139	Sorry, I'll keep going, yeah. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-140	Thank you very much, you'll have another chance. [[Noise, interrogations from the pro-government benches: two minutes! You have two minutes!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Noise, clarity.]] Go on.
u2014-09-15-141	Thank you very much. However, I think it is important, since it concerns not only the Ministry of Defence, but also other energy providers from among the public, that our regime group is involved in the legislative amendment that we have already drafted in writing, so that it can be supported and settled once and for all by the power of the law, rather than looking for individual solutions. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-142	Thank you, Minister. We are waiting for a one-minute rejoinder or thoughts to be given to Mr. Rogan.
u2014-09-15-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, I think that the answer you gave me is certainly comforting to the nearly 200 inhabitants of the condominium, we are talking more precisely about 200 households. In addition, these are mostly retired military officers, so I think that this is an important issue for the Ministry of Defence, but I would like to stress the principle of this issue. The reason why I am asking questions in this case is because I think, Minister, it must be pointed out that the reduction of the rent is due to everyone and must be enforced everywhere. If it is necessary to amend legislation, then I think that the faction is also readily available, and I would like to thank the Minister once again for his active involvement in resolving the specific matter. This is truly comforting for retired military officers and their families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. [[Dr. Csaba Hende says no.]] He's not using it. Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: " Are the police being used to intimidate civilians? " with the title " I ask you, Congressman, do you accept the Secretary of State Károly Kontra, who has been appointed to answer? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy nodds.]] He'll take it. Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2014-09-15-145	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, By the majority of two thirds of Parliament, Fidesz closed the rule of law between 2010 and'14, and struck the system of brakes and balances. [[Noise, uproar, interrogation in the ranks of the governing parties.]] I understand you don't like it. [[Noise.]] Now it's time to deal with NGOs that are independent of the government. This is what the debate about the Norwegian NGO Fund is all about and the question of the legality of the payments from it. It is clear that you are not interested in the fact that there have been minor or major irregularities in the foundations managing the Norwegian fund. Rather, their goal is to intimidate and silence dissidents. On 8 September, after Kehi and the IRS, the police were also serving the shameful political intentions. The Standing Police have, with unprecedented force, occupied the building of the office of the Ökotárs Alapítvány in a demonstrational manner. According to press reports, the withdrawal of the police was justified for the capture of a multiple-armed gang. Dear Secretary of State, I hope you share the view that the screening of some computers and documents does not require any demonstrational police action. I note that this was also the opinion of one of your Deputy State Secretarys and one of Parliament's pro-government vice-presidents. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, to explain what other explanation other than intimidation could have been, perhaps, that such manifestly disproportionate police action has taken. If there is no other reasonable explanation, please state whether it is appropriate for the police to assist in the political attack on civil society organisations. So the question is not whether the arriving officers acted legally and, as it is not, please draw your answer to the usual template. The question is, do you think that it is compatible with the rule of law, that, by political order, the headquarters of a peaceful NGO is likely to be overrun by a military force, which not only intimidates the parties involved, but also seeks out those who express or express opinions against the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What was the reason for this action, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra.
u2014-09-15-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is a democratic rule of law, where the laws apply to everyone. No one is above the law, neither natural persons, nor economic organizations, nor foundations. You're a few years late on intimidation. In the autumn of 2006, the police were supposed to ask questions in the Hungarian Parliament about police intimidation, when the police attacked peaceful celebrating people, when they conducted a cavalry attack, conducted an order against civilians, and made an eyeball with the police. [[Uproar, interrogation and applause from the pro-government benches. Crying from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Honourable Congressman, That's when we should have asked that question. As far as the matter you're asking is concerned, the police acted legally, complied with the laws in force, and there was no question of intimidation. Based on a complaint from the Bureau of Government Control, the National Bureau of Investigation has initiated proceedings. This procedure was legal. Here, in the context of the comments before the agenda, it was said that if you are democrats and respecters of the rule of law, you should give the authorities the opportunity to conduct the procedure and give an opinion in the light of the outcome of the procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2014-09-15-149	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State quotes the law well, he is writing about a democratic rule of law, but it is a different reality, and I am talking about it. I know Mr. Secretary of State and, you know, that's why I told you to do me the favor of not drawing the answer to the usual template, because once again, Mr. Secretary, as they say already as a classic, slowly and intelligibly: that is not the issue. [[Delightfulness, interrogations in the pro-government benches.]] The question is, do you think it's compatible with the rule of law, and do you think it's compatible with the rule of law that 43 alert officers are staying in a civilian office to book some computers and conduct criminal proceedings? You know, Mr. Secretary, the problem is that we need to be sad because people are quoting it more and more often, that's what they did at this protest, a half-phrase of the classic movie The Witness, when it comes to state operations. For this series of events, perhaps, if you have to look for one of them, then the expression, half sentence, is the point, because that was your goal, Mr. Secretary, and no one should be mistaken. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-150	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When I think back to the last few years, I come to the conclusion that what the socialists are saying slowly is bad news. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You remember the classic: I'm slowly telling everyone to understand. So, honourable Member, I would like to say that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, that the laws are binding on everyone, that no one is above the law, that the police have acted legally in this matter, as the police have done in every case, so I would ask the honourable Member to wait for the outcome of the procedure and to draw the conclusions and to give his opinion in the light of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Shameful answer.]]
u2014-09-15-152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: " How long will they keep running amok? " with the title " Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2014-09-15-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The scandal around the Ministry of Agriculture now swells day by day is not just about which orange baron is stealing the billions of subsidies from domestic family farmers. It is not only about who public lands are distributed to, but also about the problems at every level of the wallet. [[17.40]] One year ago, we found out here that in the context of the Agriculture and Rural Development Office, there is practically a criminal organization specializing in area payments. However, as a cold shower, the 13 thousand family farmers affected received the news that the AKG programme did not continue from September, and since then no alternatives have been provided, while the many deadlines have already expired. It is also an interesting story that Péter Palkovics, president of the MVH, resigned a few days ago; rumor has it that Brussels may claim hundreds of billions of forints for the wrongful use of various EU programmes, but it will certainly affect several billion forints. However, this also raises the question of when Jobbik's proposal will be accepted that, in such a case, when it was clearly up to the decision maker that the domestics and the domestic stakeholders would lose so much money, it would certainly be possible to hold these leaders accountable with their private assets. Also recent news is that all the lawyers from NFA were thrown out, allegedly because Kishantos wasn't effectively killed, they weren't professional enough to destroy Kishantos. We are now at the point that the NAV has requested implementation of the National Land Fund Management Organisation, as NFA has not been able to pay a fine of HUF 132 thousand. These problems could be classified for a long time. The latest perhaps, which is worth mentioning here in this tight time frame: ignoring the regulation of the European Commission on 30 August, the government now seems to be failing the Hungarian apple producers a few billion forints that would have helped them because of the Russian embargo. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Please respond to these points, Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-154	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2014-09-15-155	I'll do my best, Congressman. What I know from the questions you've raised are the following. Our land policy is clear: we want 80% small and medium-sized enterprises, family economy and up to 20 percent large estates. What is a step in this direction, and you are criticizing it, we cannot comply with it, because we are keeping this direction, and we want to bring the Hungarian agriculture into this state. As I understand it, you have also raised the question of the agri-environmental programme, and it seems that Minister Fazekas has brought the responsibility to bear. The situation, on the other hand, is that the European Union ran this programme on 31 August; it is not the Hungarian government's programme, it is an EU programme and it has not announced a new one. The Union is preparing to announce a new programme, and I hope that this will happen next year, but I do not find it fair to take responsibility for the programme not announced by the European Union by Minister Sándor Fazekas. As regards the funds that could be obtained from the extraordinary support measures available from the European Union, I - I thought that would be the point of the question - asked the Ministry to know when, what, how, what measures we have taken, whether we have any responsibility for not having enough of this money here. I can tell you that we have no responsibility. The Union said that it would suspend the exceptional support measure - the Union - and it would present a new, more targeted proposal for the continuation of the measure, which would take place on 16 September. Thank you for letting me tell you all this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-156	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-09-15-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The AKG could have been continued temporarily, so our country did not make use of it, so we fell from 72 billion forints. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In response, Prime Minister, that the government would have moved towards small and medium-sized economies, we can strongly deny that. State land lease scandals have been accompanying your operation for years now, and we can prove that, without exception, the most closely linked interest groups in all of your lands are gaining access to the majority of the state's land. You also received today the petition that the farmers who lost in the Hortobágy pre-emption contest sent to all of us, and they also clearly describe their demands in this too. I would also like to assure them, in the name of Jobbik, of our support, and of the disobedience, civil disobedience that has been announced, in every way, to support and assist them in all areas of the country. Prime Minister, the scandals around the Ministry of Agriculture are untenable, and serious personal changes are needed to come out of this story even a little. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-158	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-09-15-159	Honourable Congressman, If we were a year or two after the elections, I might understand what you are saying to us, but now that we are a few months after the elections, I see that rural Hungary has supported by a large majority the policy that we are pursuing, it is difficult to place your comment. I would rather say the opposite: thank you very much to Minister Fazekas for carrying out a agricultural policy in the last four years, thank you very much to the Chamber of Agriculture for your help, thank you to Magos for helping us to put together a agricultural policy that has won people's approval and expressed this with their votes. As for the sentence that we would fall out of some programme for the future, I would like to inform you not so much, because I think you know that, but the Hungarian public, that this does not correspond to reality. We did not fall out of any program, we did not fall from any forints, the total amount of the agri-environmental programme will be available, and Hungarian farmers will obtain it. Of course, the government did not take the risk of publishing an unknown programme in advance on a national basis, and if the Union finally decides otherwise, it will have to be paid from the budget. This was the right attitude, the farmers did not fall from a single forint, the EU announces the programme, and our farmers will have full access to this resource. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-160	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: " A worthy presentation of the Széchenyi heritage. " The Minister has appointed Mr L. Simon László Secretary of State to reply, as I understand it. It is for Congressman Mátyás Firtl.
u2014-09-15-161	Mr President, Dear Minister, L. Simon László, Parliamentary State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, presented the idea that the region will unite the Episcopal Palace in Fertőrákos, the Széchenyi Castle in Nagycenk, the Esterházy Palace in Sopron and the Esterházy Castle in Fertőd. The part of the State Secretary's announcement concerning the future fate of the Széchenyi Castle and heritage is particularly important. It shows the realization that a swift and decisive step is needed to represent the largest Hungarian heritage in his former residence, Nagycenken. We Sopron County are especially proud of István Széchenyi; at the time of the reform, the leader figure, the childhood of one of the greatest politicians ever lived, spent important, decisive creative years of his life in Cenken and Sopron. This is why we consider it our duty to renovate the Széchenyi memorial place of Nagycenki, the Széchenyi Castle, and to represent the Széchenyi heritage and spirituality. Currently, the Széchenyi memorial site is operated by six independent maintainers. The Széchenyi Castle has only been maintained since the renovation in the early 1970s, and the castle is in an unworthy state of Széchenyi's spirit. The renovation of the former residence of Count István Széchenyi - whether together with the former Széchenyi castles, estates and memorials in the area - would serve as a noble purpose to strengthen the nation's consciousness, the nation's love in the visitors as a worthy national pilgrimage place. Dear Minister, Besides the development of the Esterházy castle ensemble, which we thank very much for, can the renovation of the Széchenyi heritage be realized? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-162	Thank you very much. The Minister's response is now an urgent public task, so I'll give you the floor.
u2014-09-15-163	Thank you very much. Your Honour, my fellow Member. Secretary of State L. Simon László personally oversees the programme under which a major renovation process is taking place and is taking place in the region of Lake Fertő. In order to preserve the Esterházy World Heritage, Professor István Hiller has taken permanent steps, which could be continued by the current and previous governments since 2010. However, this is not enough to please us. From a cultural point of view, the landscape of Lake Fertő is indeed a unified landscape, but we are not only in the care of the Esterházy heritage, but we can safely say that, despite being a civilian government, we have plenty to do and we are lagging behind in the care of the Széchenyi heritage of Nagycenk. [[17.50]] The current state of the building, the current quality of the exhibition is not suitable for XXI. Between the framework and form of the century, let us present the message of István Széchenyi - whose name we use every day and whose memory we have tried to incorporate in the curriculum programmes of the democratic rule over the past decades - how his works serve as a road or how his career can be interpreted in 2014. So we have a spiritual obligation to have a natural abundance of work to do in connection with the built inheritance. The first thing we owe - and unfortunately this is very typical of other nations - is the maintenance and care of tombs. The tomb of Prince Miklós Esterházy and his wife, Margit Cziráky, is still in unworthy conditions in Eszterháza, thanks to whom we owe 100 years ago the renovation of Fertőd and Eszterháza. And I can say that the tomb of more than a hundred members of the Széchenyi family is also not worthy of a strong, emerging and Széchenyi cult in Hungary, partly in the public cemetery and partly in the Széchenyi mausoleum. This is why the government has ordered that it will provide more than HUF 130 million in order to restore the mausoleum, partly in order to preserve the memory, and partly in order to raise the memory of the entire family as an example of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-164	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give you a return answer.
u2014-09-15-165	Thank you for your reply, which has really highlighted the problem of the castle that preserves Széchenyi's memory and the Széchenyi memorial. When I asked the question, I actually assumed that, in connection with the renovation of the Esterházy Castle, we had established an organizational unit, and I can say that this department has done in the past, in fact, a work that predesztes that we can turn the entire Eszterháza, Széchenyi Castle complex together in the coming time, bringing together the region of Sopron and the Fertő landscape into a highly high tourist program, of course, especially for Hungarian pilgrims in relation to Nagycenk. We agree that this department will manage Nagycenk together and the Esterházy heritage. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-166	Thank you very much. The Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2014-09-15-167	Your Honour, Mr. President. Indeed, a very serious issue in Hungary is the issue of the maintenance, maintenance and the conduct of an investment of the institutions, and the Hungarian state structure and organisation tends to think and assume that if something has its own owner within the state structure, the appropriate guarantee is that its independence and independence within the large-large state institutional system will guarantee the right quality of renovation. Indeed, we have separated Eszterháza from the state institutional system, not without reason, after due consideration. Partly because we have invested funds from Hungarian taxpayers and taxpayers in the European Union over the past ten years that deserve special care and attention. There are basically cultural policy reasons for joining Nagycenk here, making it a unified institution, and this can include not only Nagycenk, but also Fertő's countryside, Fertőrákos, Sopron, other Esterházy and Széchenyi facilities, because it really offers the Hungarian state a major cultural program opportunity along the Austrian border, attracting not only Austria but all interested audiences in Europe. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-168	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " Did György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, agree with the government? " The title is given below. I will ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, who has been appointed to answer. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2014-09-15-169	Dear Secretary of State, The MNB's Supervisory Board, whose mandate ended in May, submitted the Parliament's report on the management of the central bank last year to the Parliament in the spring. The report provided a number of critical statements on the central bank's intention to fund non-core activities. The MNB has allocated 140 billion forints for the purchase of art, paintings, buildings, renovations and education. Even then, there was no news of the incredible distribution of money that we have experienced since then; luxury castle, offshore Eiffel Palace, the purchase of other buildings, and 200 billion forints of public money for the foundations of the central bank. The Central Bank did this at a time when the National Assembly had not yet set up a new supervisory board of the MNB. The central bank has tried to spend almost entirely by excluding the public in an opaque way. Unfortunately, the Parliament, although repeatedly initiated by the LMP, refuses to put the report of the Supervisory Board on the agenda. In his main interview with one of the Internet portals about who controls the MNB's activities, Mr Matolcsy referred to negotiations with the government. I would therefore like to ask you, on behalf of the Minister, whether the President of the Central Bank has indeed agreed with the Government over the last few months on purchases not covered by the basic activity and the transfer of HUF 200 billion to his foundations. My second question is: when will the election of the new supervisory board of the MNB be presented to the Parliament?
u2014-09-15-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-09-15-171	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and CXXXIX of 2013 on the National Bank of Hungary. Law 1 provides a clear answer to your question, which is immediately referred to in Article 1 (1). § 2 of the Act states that the members of the MNB and of its organs, when carrying out their duties and duties under this Act, are independent, cannot seek or accept instructions from the Government, the European Central Bank, with certain exceptions, from the governments of the Member States or from any other organisation or political party. The Government or any other organisation shall respect this principle and shall not attempt to influence the members of the MNB and its organs in the performance of its duties. The Hungarian government, like all laws, respects this law, so it is obviously not possible to coordinate with the MNB, or the MNB expects any approval from the Hungarian Government in this respect. However, the activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank are also controlled outside the supervisory board by external bodies, such as the State Audit Office, which monitors the activities of the National Bank each year, and the National Assembly itself, since the National Assembly is the control body of the Hungarian State as its owner. Every year, the National Bank of Hungary reports to the National Assembly, and the Standing Committee of the Parliament responsible for economic affairs reports every six months. In addition, the President of the MNB shall be subject to an extraordinary reporting obligation vis-à-vis the Speaker and the Chairman of the Committee. So the government has no control over the National Bank of Hungary - according to the Hungarian National Bank Act and the Fundamental Law. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2014-09-15-173	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. That's how we know the law, so exactly as you quoted it. As far as we know, you can't ask or receive advice from the government. However, we did not understand why the President of the Central Bank had spoken in that main interview to consult the Government during this period. We also asked this question because, although we assumed that the government did not give advice, during the period when these large spendings were made, the supervisory board did not work either, since the former supervisory board ceased its mandate on 6 May and the new supervisory board has not yet stood up. For this reason, the LMP has initiated several times that the Parliament's Budget Committee can, under the law, listen to the President of the Central Bank and review and discuss the report of the Supervisory Board last year. But, unfortunately, this could not have happened, because the Fidesz majority did not allow it to be on the agenda. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-174	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a rejoinder. [[18.00]]
u2014-09-15-175	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the same law 3. Paragraph 2 of the Act allows cooperation with the government, but not in the activities of the Hungarian National Bank or in its financial decisions. After all, the Hungarian National Bank also has the task of promoting the government's economic policy by the means available. Obviously, this is what the consultation and consultation on which the President of the Central Bank spoke was about. As a Member of Parliament, under the Fundamental Law, you have the opportunity to address a question to the President of the National Bank of Hungary, and you are also a member of the Parliament for the control of the National Bank of Hungary. I suggest you use that right and opportunity. As regards the establishment of the Supervisory Board, it is indeed the task of the Parliament. Obviously, the Parliament is responsible for this. I'm only one member, so on behalf of the Parliament, I can't say when this is going to happen. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-176	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: " Tourism shows record data. How did Budapest become one of Europe's most popular tourist destinations? " with the title " I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the Secretary of State, Mr. Béla Glattfelder, who has been appointed to answer. [[Erik Bánki: Of course, Mr President, I accept.]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2014-09-15-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This year's tourism records are breaking new records. The domestic number of guests, gross accommodation income, continues to maintain a growth trend of over 10 percent, while the total number of guests increased by 7.3 percent and the number of guest nights spent by 5.6 percent. In the first seven months of the year, Hungary's commercial accommodations received a total of 5 million 250 thousand guests, who spent 13.4 million guest nights paying a gross accommodation fee of HUF 101 billion during their rest. One of the most important market performance indicators, the hotel revpar, i.e. gross accommodation income per room, maintains its growth rate of around 10 per cent in the first seven months of 2014. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In the second month of summer, on the basis of the number of guest nights among the ten most important sending countries, the United States has achieved the highest growth compared to last year, the Slovak market is 13 percent, and the Polish market is growing by more than 11 percent. It is also clear that Hungarian families were able to spend more time on vacation in July than they did a year ago, and they spent a total of two million guest nights in Hungarian accommodations. In addition, the SZÉP card plays an increasingly important role in boosting domestic tourism, between January and July this year commercial accommodations adopted a SZÉP card worth HUF 9 billion, which is a nearly 19 percent increase compared to last year. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months Hungary has also gained considerable recognition in international tourist comparisons. According to one survey, for example, Budapest was the best destination for British tourists in 2014. That is why I am asking the honourable Secretary of State, the records that tourism is banging show sustainable development, i.e. whether we can expect similar data in the future. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2014-09-15-178	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to State Secretary Béla Glattfelder.
u2014-09-15-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman Lords and Ladies! Thank you very much for the question, Mr President, and I am particularly pleased to receive the first question from an former Member of the European Parliament after my return to the Hungarian Parliament. Indeed, Hungarian tourism has shown excellent results for years, but now in July new records have been added, and accommodation revenues have increased by 10 percent. It is important to note that there is also a record in Budapest. But not only the number of foreign tourists is rising, but also in a very welcome way, domestic tourists, with 13 percent, which is probably backed by the additional demand generated by the SZÉP card. Why is Budapest's tourism growing so explosively? Probably because Budapest is beautiful. I've been to a lot of places in the last few years, I've been to many parts of the world, but it's a beautiful city like Budapest, there's very little on the globe. Plus, Budapest is getting prettier. Mayor István Tarlós has cleaned up the city. [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Several improvements were made in the city, Kossuth Square, Vigadó, Castle District. Budapest is a good place to have fun, the Sziget Festival has reached records this year and has reached the maximum number of admissions in several days. And last but not least, the creativity of Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses, is one of the key drivers of Hungarian tourism. Budapest has appeared with a number of tourist offers, which are world sensations, such as ruin taverns, or that someone in Budapest, if he takes a bus, can eventually go through the Danube's foams with an amphibious boat. It seems to me that this is why Budapest is suitable for further development, to be the target of further tourist attraction, just like our entire country, because Budapest and Hungary are beautiful. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-180	Thank you, Congressman, for your answer. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the Government's positive attitude, which is why we can confidently expect that in the next four years, further development or development of tourism in Hungary will be supported by intensity and professional competence similar to that of the past four years. It would be very important to continue the development of quality products, as we can see in the world's trend that tourists are looking for higher quality services and unique products on the market. It is therefore very important that, during the next seven years of EU assistance, the territorial operational programmes are adequately developed, with the potential to have an impact on both job creation and sustainable development. Finally, it is very important to be able to conduct a coordinated marketing activity, which could work effectively between local authorities and the national marketing organisation with a good cooperation in both the domestic and foreign markets. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-182	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-183	The government's objective is that, unlike the previous seven years, when only 16 percent of EU funds have been used directly for economic development, we now use 60 percent for the same purpose. So a lot more to get to the economy and a lot more to get to tourism. We plan to spend 100 billion forints on the development of tourism, primarily to present cultural and natural heritage. But further to that, we want to promote energy saving and energy efficiency in tourism businesses. This is particularly important for accommodation providers, since about one third of the typical costs of a hotel are energy expenditure. Therefore, if they can save you there, it will significantly increase the profitability of the company. We hope that a number of local government contributions and local tenders will contribute to government aid, and this will be a good basis for further development of the tourism sector. Tourism holds a lot of jobs in Hungary, so it is particularly important for us to develop it. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-184	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: "Only government marketing is the signing of the strategic agreement. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you obviously know that such a strategic alliance over 50 has come to an agreement like this. I can't say anything but what's in the title, and I think it really is a government marketing stunt. Very simply because, when you think about the content of these agreements, I have also managed to read some of them, it is clearly an empty set. This is about expressing our intention to express our intention to do so, and on the other hand, we are similarly borne in this regard. There are no commitments, no obligations, there is nothing in it that would mean commitment from either the employer's side or the government side. But the most painful thing is that there is no such thing as a positive message to the number of people employed by the strategic allies. Whether it's about protecting their jobs, it doesn't matter whether it's about completing occupational safety issues at work or anything else, it's about their wages. There's nothing in it. What if it's not marketing? What's it really for? It's just to try and get a mirror off the steering wheel that's about how good we are. In the meantime, we know that the number of employees in Hungary is not increasing in terms of employment places above 5 people, but they lie about the fact that there are positive improvements in employment. [[18.10]] I will not go into the details, we all know that it is the public employment and the group of people persecuted abroad who bring this to life, and not thanks to the government, thanks to the government's economic measures, that new jobs are being created - let us not even talk about wages! So there's nothing, l'art pour l'art based on this story. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-09-15-186	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Tibor Navracsics. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-09-15-187	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, A number of things happen: according to statistical data, employment rates are rising. You said we just lied about everything in the ether. I would not lie to the Central Statistical Office because that would be too steep a statement, and according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, employment figures are improving, and this is supported by the European Union when it is acknowledged that the employment situation in Hungary is improving. So I think we can move forward in this debate if we at least respect the facts and acknowledge that the other has results. The basic idea of strategic agreements was precisely to build confidence, because we thought that in the last 20-25 years we had been trapped a few times in the trap of a foreign investor coming here for cheap labour, and when he thought that his short-term interests were not in line with the investment, he immediately moved on. The essence of strategic agreements is to look for economic partners who want to invest here in the longer term and with whom we can build strategic cooperation. In the present case, this represents 49 strategic agreements, with a total of 6390 people employed more than when the agreements were signed; the ten service companies employ a total of 32 264 people, a figure of 2493 more than the agreements. In total, they employ nearly 9,000 more workers than at the time of the conclusion of strategic agreements. 10,000 jobs, if we do not say 10,000 families, but we can safely say that 6 to 8 thousand families - because there may be more family members working in one workplace - I think it is not underestimable in today's period when unemployment is one of the European Union's biggest problems. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-188	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2014-09-15-189	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I just want to say that the numbers are good, only the other half is not said, but it is not said that, of course, this includes those with thousands of numbers who have become the subject of mass redundancies in the past period. I would like to say two things to you as European Commissioner, if I may. One is that I think it is important to learn not only to tell the truth in part. The KSH tells us part of the truth and doesn't talk about the other half. He does not talk about what public employment means, does not talk about the fact that the number of people employed abroad, which is calculated, does not talk about the fact that 4 hour employees are considered statistically in the same way as 8 hour employees. But that's not the point. I would like to say one more sentence, and that, if you are already talking about the fact that you are not elitist in your attitude to Fidesz, you should be kind enough to move in the direction that, say, in terms of minimum wage, you should not have worse positions after four years than you were four years ago. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because these are the facts (the president bell rings.) They're hard to lie about. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Tibor Navracsics is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-191	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I fear that if my two-minute time frame wasn't enough to achieve the level of nuance of my answer that you would have considered minimal, then the one-minute time frame will give you even less opportunity to do so. In any case, let me say that these strategic agreements are at least an opportunity for foreign companies to create jobs and, as we can see, they have created jobs. This, of course, we can agree that it is not a sufficient achievement in itself, the sufficient result would be to finally create permanent jobs in the domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector. There's no more permanent jobs than local jobs, local jobs, this is where we're going. As you have admitted, at least the numbers are encouraging, unlike the previous period. [[Nándor Gúr: Partly.]] If the opposition says that it is partly encouraging, I am already happy, and I hope that more jobs can be created in the future, because our goal is ambitious; our goal is to reach the level of employment in the Czech Republic, and we are still far from doing so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-192	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:15 p.m., we've reached the end of the immediate questioning, and we'll continue our work with the questions. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank: " How much do the officials of the Central Bank earn? " with the title " I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Heringes.
u2014-09-15-193	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Last Monday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets of the Parliament could not be held due to the illegal absence of the Members of the Fidesz Parliament, but my fellow Members held an extremely interesting and useful consultation with the participation of the former members of the Supervisory Board invited to the meeting. During the consultation, we became richer with a number of information, over which public attention has so far been overlooked. We already knew that the management of the National Bank of Hungary wanted to ensure high standards for central bank managers to rest their fatigues after hard work, sometimes working several shifts, so they bought the castle hotel in Tiszaroff for HUF 450 million, according to press reports. We also heard from central bank managers why they bought one of the most expensive office buildings in Budapest for 18 billion HUF. We have also heard about the purpose of the central bank with the funds of HUF 200 billion. At the meeting, however, one of the former members of the Supervisory Board considered that the establishment of foundations would also entail a significant fee for the management of central banks, bearing the function of foundation. Mr. Vice President, We know that according to your president, you can make a living of 47,000 forints, but this statement is not credible if it is said by a person who earns more than 2 million 300 thousand forints per month, but the other members of the Monetary Council also receive a salary of at least 1.5 million. Mr. Vice President, The payment of central bank officials was thus established because it was considered to be fair. If that's the fair measure, then why do you want to play that rule? I consider it necessary to clarify whether there is indeed a prize from the foundations of the MNB and from some of its subsidiaries some members of the Board of Directors of the Hungarian National Bank. If so, please describe the names of the persons involved in the monthly payment and the extent of the fees. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-09-15-194	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Vice President Ádám Balog. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-195	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, First of all, allow me to address a few words to the woman representing her introductory thoughts. We recognise that the independence of the National Bank of Hungary and its importance and role in the national institutions also have a particular responsibility. With this responsibility in mind, the decisions of the management of the MNB shall always be taken in accordance with the external and internal rules governing the operational arrangements of the central bank. The MNB fulfils all its statutory obligations requiring reporting, such as reporting to the Parliament's Economic Committee, regularly informing the public, and being monitored by the State Audit Office. We also have an internal audit directorate that controls our activities independently of the other directorates. I therefore believe that the measures taken, which Mrs President has told me, always pass the legal test, and we also believe that there is not only their legality but also their rationality. Turning to wages: I am also glad that this issue has come up, because, as I said, this is an independent, significant institution, we need to be aware of what is going on in it, and I feel absolutely right about these issues. For the record, it would have been good if these questions had been raised five to six years ago, when the then president took 8 million dollars a month and the then vice president took 5 and 6.5 million forints. Since then, this amount has been quartered, combined, as far as the current management is concerned, so I feel this is a significant difference. Thus, at the European, Central European and Eastern European level, current payments are more of the lower part of central bank payments. If you look at the legislation, you can see that the amount of our income is set at 10 times the gross national income of the HCSO for the year preceding the year, and at 80 percent and 70 percent for the Vice-President. The former president was looking for 41 times the average Hungarian wage. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Speaking of your other questions, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I would like to indicate that the members of the Board of Directors and the Board of Supervisors are members of the Board of Directors. [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] is legally provided by the National Bank. (The President's ringing again.) And we offer our curatorial fees as described on our website. Thank you. [[18.20]]
u2014-09-15-196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Ikotity István, representatives of LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " Why is the expansion of institutions providing day care for young children so slow? " with the title " István Ikotity has the floor. [[The congressman's mic won't ring.]] Your card, Congressman, would you be so kind as to insert it? [[For signal:]] Please secure a card. [[István Ikotity will find your card. István Ikotity: I got it! Delight and applause.]] I was just about to change it. Be kind enough to put the microphone on, Congressman. Now we're stalling, Congressman, and I'm gonna have to start counting on it. Be nice to start. [[István Ikotity: The card is in!]] Dear Parliament, As long as Congressman Ikotity...
u2014-09-15-197	Time's up!
u2014-09-15-198	You got it? Here you go.
u2014-09-15-199	Thank you for the floor. The lack of accommodation for institutions providing day care for young children is a serious problem across governments. Cradle, kindergartens in many places are unavailable, existing institutions are overcrowded. The lack of space is also a serious obstacle to the employment of mothers, and it also shows that we are EU drivers in the employment of women with young children. Nevertheless, very few new nurserys and kindergartens are being built in Hungary, and they are also slowly being prepared. In essence, only EU funds are available for institution development. The launch of EU proposals, the use of resources, is on the move. In the last cycle, only 3,000 new cradle seats were created, while the government promised double by the end of 2014. Although the scope of the kindergarten institution network is significantly better compared to nursery care, territorial inequalities are high. Over the last few years, EU funds have been able to create one third of the planned seats, with nearly 2,000 seats. What will happen with the introduction of compulsory preschooling from the age of three, which would be due from September 2015? Blocking public funds and slipping EU funds will also make it impossible to create new family daycare centers, even though this competitive type of institution could ease the lack of space cheaply and quickly, providing flexible care even in the workplace as close to the parent. Dear Minister, Why is the development of the institutional network so slow? When will there be enough room for at least a third of children under the age of three? When will applications be issued for EU funds? Thank you.
u2014-09-15-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You should know that women's employment in Hungary has reached peaks, as there are 133,000 more women working now than four years ago, and only thanks to the ged extra, 19 thousand women are able to work alongside having children. I think that this is exactly the direction everyone wants and which helps Hungary, because it was indeed a behind position in this area a few years ago, but it is nice to catch up, and I tell you, female employment has not been as high since the change of regime as it is now in Hungary. So I think we're going in the right direction here. If you look at the numbers to which you refer, based on the data of our central electronic registration system on 1 September, a total of 729 crèches provide children with 38,277 seats during the day, which is already around 6,000 seats, precisely 5761 seats and 62 institutions compared to the 2010 data. This is twice what you mentioned in terms of space expansion. So we have achieved our goal by expanding the 6,000 seats. Within the New Széchenyi Plan between 2010 and May 2014, some 4,800 new cradle seats were created, and until 31 December 2014, some 1,200 new cradle seats will be delivered in 43 institutions. The number of cradle seats created over the last four years is a double result compared to the number of seats created between 2004 and 2009. In addition, between 2010 and 2013, the number of family day-care facilities increased by 3130 and the number of new family day-care centers increased by 414, representing more than 60%. This also helps mothers to get a job, and in the meantime, children can be cared for during the day. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Based on the 2013 data, nearly 16 percent of children under the age of three had access to an institution providing intraday care in the country, with nearly 42 000 seats; and I will continue with further data the next time possible. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-202	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kulcsár, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the defense minister: "Free Gripen Parade for Cubatov." Congressman Gergely Kulcsár has the floor.
u2014-09-15-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Not only did Gábor Kubatov suffer from the echoes of the stadium inauguration in Ferencváros, but he also had to explain himself. As we know, weeks before the inauguration ceremony of the new stadium, the event was advertised, among other things, by the fact that Gripen's fighters will fly over the stadium. Since this was announced in advance, it is clear that there was a need for prior consultation between the club and the Ministry. Lucky for you, you should have signed a contract. As it turned out, no contract was concluded, Minister, he explained that they flew to the Grip for training over the stadium - what God gives at the time of the ceremony! When the situation became most embarrassing for the Minister, the continued press inquiry, with a hussar cut, the documents of the Kubatov training were encrypted for 30 years. Dear Minister, I don't want to classify this case because it's unrated the way it is. I'd like to ask you a few questions, please. I think you owe an explanation to the public, to the Hungarian people. The day before the stadium inauguration, the fighter planes flew over the track. Were they still doing this for training? How much does a parade like this cost the taxpayers? What's your reason for encrypting the training details for 30 years? During your ministry, how many practices like this have been encrypted for decades? If the mayor had asked, would the three Gripens of the defence have trained in the tunnel of subway 4? And last but not least, I would also like to ask you if you still consider yourself fit to be a minister. Dear Minister, I ask you to provide concrete, meaningful answers to my specific questions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-15-204	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-09-15-205	My dear fellow Member, let's go over a few things, shall we? So you're missing some kind of contract to fly over. You should know that such a contract cannot be concluded under the law. Two, no one's encrypted anything in this case. You should know that, under the law, these data are not public for 30 years. On 15 July 2011, 296 Members of Parliament voted in favour of this law, what God gives, including you. So no one's encrypted anything. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Uh-oh, unpleasant.]] By the power of the law, it is not public. By the way, these non-public records, the training and military content of this flight, any time you come into the Ministry of Defence, my colleagues will explain and show you. The same is true for the flight that took place the day before. You should know that we lease the Gripen machines. So the hours we rent, the hours we rent, we have to pay the Swedish party anyway, you know? So there is no specific cost of fulfilling this contractual right if we exercise this right. I told you about the encryption. You should also know that subway tunnel 4 does not fit on a Grip, my dear fellow Member. [[18.30]] Let me not reverse your question of competence as to whether you are qualified as a representative with so much knowledge. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Key Arrow applauds.]]
u2014-09-15-206	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " How can Hungarian sport benefit from the organisation of the European Women's Handball Championship? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Only three months left until the start of the Hungarian-Croatian women's handball European Championship, the main handball event of the year. From 7 to 21 December 2014, Hungary and Croatia will jointly host the Women's Handball Europe Championship. The opening of the event will take place on 7 December at the Audi Arena in Győr. As Deputy Mayor and Parliamentary Representative of Győr, I can assure the Secretary of State that Győr is prepared to organize the event, since Audi Arena Győr is built from a central source of HUF 5 billion, which will be a cultural and modern sports facility capable of receiving 5500 viewers. The municipality of Győr will renovate the roads in the vicinity of the Arena from its own budget, hundreds of millions of forints and create new parking spaces. The foundation stone of the new facility was laid in the presence of a honourable Secretary of State on 30 January of this year, and the works will be completed by 30 October. The organizing committee of Győr is in constant consultation with the organizing committees of the central and other racing venues, as well as the Hungarian Handball Association. The government supports the European Championship with HUF 180 million. The goal is to set an example for young people that our athletes are in the elite of the world. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I ask you how Hungarian sport can benefit from the organisation of the European Women's Handball Championship. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó.
u2014-09-15-209	Honourable Congressman, Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is a very important question that you asked, because indeed, we are a sports-friendly government, and we have been striving to host as many domestic world competitions as possible. Let me just mention a few of them, I'm sure you and everyone here will remember them. Last year, we successfully organized the World Wrestling Championship, the Karate-Europe Championship, the figure skating European Championship, a number of sporting events that many, many foreigners came to; wrestling World Championships, ice hockey World Championships, and the rest, and the rest. We would like to take this forward, we would like to give home to as many domestic world competitions as possible, just so that Hungarian fans can see what Hungarian athletes can do, because we Hungarians in sport have a lot of talent and we are very successful, we are a great power in sport. The Hungarian government would also like to provide conditions for sport and sport, so we also need facilities for this. In Győr, the women's handball citadel, there is an old demand to have a sports arena where we will be able to conduct international matches, and we do not have to, say, play his matches for a BL winning team in Győr in Veszprém or Budapest. So the government has taken the necessary decision and I am pleased that the municipality is also a partner in this process. It is important to build a sports hall, a gymnasium, a school, a gymnasium in as many places as possible, in order to enable our children to exercise. What would the city of Győr profit from this? I think that the fact that the city of Győr is rich with such an establishment, a modern sports arena, is an advantage to Győr, of course, is an advantage to young people and children in Győr, since they can play sports under more cultural conditions. It is an advantage to the fans of Győr, as they can support their favourite team on the home field, and, of course, it means a surplus to all Hungarian fans. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's gonna be good for you. Not to mention, the most important thing is that through this European Championship, through this facility, several Hungarian children [[The president's ringing again.]] start handballing and more people will play sports in Hungary. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-210	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development: "When will the section of the Highway 42 bypassing the Bishop's Lady be completed? When will the life of the Bishop's Lady be important?"with a title. It's for the congresswoman.
u2014-09-15-211	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The old unsolved problem of the city of Bishopladány is the traffic of road number 42 that disturbs the population and poses a high risk of accidents, largely caused by transit traffic in Romania. In reality, the incomplete traffic counting data is 8-10 thousand units per day, of which 1800-2000 trucks pass through the relevant road section. Large motor traffic pollutes the air, increases the risk of accidents, breaks the walls of homes with vibrations. Truck transport is unbearable during the night hours, windows cannot be opened. Following Romania's accession to the European Union, the number of vehicles passing through has increased dramatically. The condition of the road surface continues to deteriorate. The trail of Highway 42 runs through the most densely populated city centre with schools and public institutions. So far, ten times, six months, the population continues their demonstration for the bypass. Do people have to die to make something happen? I have already asked questions in writing about this, but the answers raise further questions. In their written reply, it is said that due to the introduction of the e-toll, the turnover of the main roads that became subject to the charge has typically not increased. Based on what? Because No. 42's head has grown strongly. When do we get the real traffic count data? The construction of the M4 is described as planning to start in the medium term. What does that mean? However, it is also written that the entire section of the M4 motorway between the capital and the national border will be built within about a decade. It is also stated that the Püspökladány-Törökszentmiklós phase could take place between 2016-18, and this development will significantly address the main traffic problems arising from transit transport. Is there a problem or no problem? The expropriation process makes it even more unthinkable [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that all of this will be achieved by 2016,'18. Which of the three statements is true, Mr. Secretary? Is the life of the Bishop's Lady important? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-15-213	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and These two minutes are not enough to answer your questions in detail, but, as you mentioned, we wrote you a detailed letter on August 28th. The problem is not new, compared to many other similar roads, the problem of 42 is also known. In response to your specific question, compared to the written one, the traffic-enhancing or non-enhancing effect of the main roads that have become subject to charges has a national traffic monitoring system, which is 20 measuring stations in the country's most important hubs. These data support our claims that traffic has not changed. The fact that traffic was already significant, we have never debated it before, not because of this, but because of the Romanian traffic you mentioned. With regard to the time frame you mentioned or asked me about when this would happen, in the letter I recall we wrote a mid-term. The medium-term means 4-10 years in infrastructure development. This is practical for the EU budget period 2014-2020. During this time, we will definitely do it, and we will start making it more precisely. I would like to confirm by word that the problem of road 42 must be taken into account by you, I suppose, is a well-known, eastern bypass. Because if we can solve the two traffic tasks with a technical improvement, namely that the section between the Bishop's Lady-Berettyóújfalu also means the bypass, then I suppose you will support this; if not, I ask you to support it. By the way, the task, the section of the road you're asking, is important. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And like I said, we're gonna make it happen. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-09-15-214	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: " When will school and kindergarten workers who are unskilled receive a wage increase? " The title is given below. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor.
u2014-09-15-215	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The pedagogical career model, which will enter into force from 1 September 2013, covers all employees employed in the teaching profession in public education institutions. [[18.40]] However, in schools and kindergartens, 15-20 thousand staff directly assisting educational and educational work and technical staff did not receive a wage increase. We are talking about jobs such as pedagogical assistants, school and kindergarten secretaries, nurses, college secretaries, administrators and administrators. The government has been promising to settle their wages for years, but it hasn't happened to this day. They work as public servants, but they're not subject to a teacher's lease table because they don't work as teachers. Since the KLIK took over the educational institutions, their wages have decreased significantly, as they have withdrawn all their extra salaries. The salary of these people should be added to the guaranteed minimum wage, which is currently a gross HUF 118 thousand. Yes, 118 thousand forints, while according to KSH data, the gross average earnings in Hungary today are 228 400 forints. Their wages and allowances haven't changed in years, they've only received the mandatory minimum wage increase, which is after the years worked, although it's quite obvious that without these people's work, the teaching and educating work couldn't take place at a normal level. Recently, one of their statements revealed that their plans were not to include them in the wage increase, staff and technical staff directly assisting these educational and educational work, since you continued to talk only about those with pedagogical qualifications in your plans. I think that this is completely unfair, because it is essential for teachers to carry out their duties, and yet there is a double standard among them. Many of these people are forced to work for unworthy wages, even though they also work for the growing generation in addition to educators. On this basis, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when there will be a wage increase for school and kindergarten workers who are not qualified as teachers. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-216	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-217	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I am glad that, if it is, the Member acknowledged that the wages of teachers are rising significantly, and that the pedagogical career is now a more prestige to teachers in Hungary than it was a few years ago. As regards the situation of non-educator employees, I would remind you that from 1 January 2013... - a significant difference in the wages of technical workers who directly assist in educational, educational work in public education institutions which have been maintained by the State has been shown, because the school-supporting authorities had completely different financial resources. During the government's task as of 1 January 13, we have sought to eliminate differences which cannot be observed in the benefits of those employed in public education institutions. Therefore, as of 1 September 2013, the Public Education Act and its implementing regulations regulate the wage and bonus scheme for those employed directly in the position of educator, irrespective of their maintenance. At this moment, they are not subject to the educational career-related system, even if they have a pedagogical degree, since the Public Education Act originally only extended it to teachers employed in public education institutions. At the same time, after the entry into force of the Act, the professional wallet observed social feedback and perceived that the representatives of the profession were sensitive to the fact that the newly introduced career system did not affect those who work in educational, educational, educational and educational services and those who work in a network of institutions providing child protection, pedagogical and pedagogical professional services, and therefore, following the government's presentation, the National Assembly amended the Public Education Act and extended the system of teacher advancement to the aforementioned circle. I think that the Government has responded to legitimate comments in due time and round with these legislative amendments, recognising the value and importance of the work of the workers in the job concerned. However, it should be noted that it is not technically justified to extend it to all staff directly assisting each educational and educational work. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] regardless of the person's qualifications or qualifications, there are marked differences between the levels of leasing adapted to qualifications in other sectors. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-218	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:44 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with general debates. There will be a general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the draft law on the publication of an agreement on mutual visa representation until closure. The submission is T/55. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I will give the floor to Mr Mikola István, State Secretary, the author of the bill, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-09-15-219	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary's fundamental interest since the 2007 Schengen accession, especially with regard to the size of the Hungarian network of foreign representations, is that foreigners can obtain the Hungarian Schengen visa more widely than they currently do. The simplest, most cost-effective and long-standing way of doing so is to establish a Community Visa Code on 13 July 2009 810/2009. EC Regulation, a visa representative governed by Article 8 of the Visa Capacity Regulation. In Hungarian internal law, the general legal basis for the establishment of agreements with such content is the authorisation to establish representation agreements between the Republic of Hungary and certain Member States of the European Union and other States Parties to the Schengen Convention on visa issue and cooperation in other areas of consular work. Annex VI to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation. 15 months. It's created by an ME decision. This agreement on mutual visa representation with the Republic of Poland aims to establish a flexible legal framework for cooperation, as is the proposal for a resolution that the Parliament has discussed today, this agreement serves to further deepen and intensify Hungarian-Polish friendly relations. On the basis of the agreement, the parties agree on a lower level of regulation and inter-ministerial agreements with regard to specific stations or specific forms of cooperation. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Agreement, the Ministrys of Foreign Affairs of the Parties shall determine the technical arrangements for cooperation on visa representation within the framework of an implementing agreement. The authorisation of the Exchange of Letters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland to finalise the text of the Agreement on Mutual Visa Representation 2013 CHAPTER III Government Decision No 3 empowers the Minister responsible for foreign policy to sign the final text of the agreement by maintaining its ratification. The Agreement was signed in Krakow on 14 March 2014. The entry into force of the agreement requires recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement by the Hungarian party. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled accordingly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-09-15-220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-minute time frame by group of representatives. I give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-09-15-221	Mr President, Dear House, Hungary has a fundamental interest in rationalising visa issuance and increasing its effectiveness. The simplest, cheapest and long-standing way of doing so is to conclude visa representation agreements. This is justified by the introduction of biometric identifiers, the development of the EU-wide visa information system from October 2011 and the wider access of foreigners to the Hungarian Schengen visa. The conclusion of the visa representation agreement to be concluded under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Community Visa Code would be justified by the size of the Hungarian network of foreign representations. But since the current Hungarian diplomatic leadership closes Hungarian foreign representation in two EU Member States, this argument does not seem convincing enough. However, it is to be welcomed that the Agreement establishes that the relevant rules of the European Union, in particular those of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, should be respected in cooperation. The party representing the representative shall exercise the same care in the proceedings as if it were to conduct it on its own behalf. It should be clearly supported that the Hungarian foreign representations representing the Polish party retain the full amount of visa fees. [[18.50]] In addition, there are no risks to the implementation of the Agreement, its application may be suspended or terminated at any time by the Parties in whole or in part. Dear House, The ratification of the bilateral agreement with the Government of the Republic of Poland should also be an opportunity to review the current situation of Hungarian-Polish relations. It cannot be abstracted from history when we talk about Hungarian-Polish friendship. Although in light of this, it is clear that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's first foreign visit to Warsaw after his 2010 and 2014 election victory led to the conclusion that the Hungarian-Polish bilateral relationship system behind the official political statements is not entirely cloudless. In March this year, Foreign Minister János Martonyi highlighted the need for concrete steps to strengthen Hungarian-Polish relations, and there are still many opportunities in bilateral economic cooperation. President János Áder stated at a recently organised Polish-Hungarian business forum that we could be proud of the trade flows between the two countries. From behind the figures, however, it seems that Poland with almost 40 million inhabitants has less Hungarian goods than Slovakia with 5 million people, and the same as the Czech Republic with 10 million people. At the same time, the head of state noted that there is still more to be done in the area of investment. It is only acceptable that Hungarian companies have invested more than EUR 1.5 billion in Poland, but the value of Polish investments in Hungary is only a quarter of that. This needs to be changed as a matter of urgency. Before that, the Polish President Komorowski also spoke about the fact that, despite the crisis, trade flows of more than six billion euros are lagging behind. In addition to this visa representation agreement, the Hungarian Consulate-General reopened in Krakow on 14 March in bilateral relations can only be mentioned as a positive element. Dear House, What is the reason why, despite the highest level of meetings and visits, the results of Hungarian-Polish relations fall short of expectations? The whole Polish political public opinion is increasingly critical and negative of the Orbán regime, especially the individual steps taken by the Prime Minister. The Russian pro-Russianism in the Russian-Ukrainian conflict and energy is becoming increasingly hard-pressed by Polish political opinion and some Polish politicians. The main reason for the Polish resentments is that the Hungarian government is not following the strategy that Poland considers appropriate in the Ukrainian-Russian conflict and energy issues. The emerging situation can not only make relations between top politicians cooler or even colder, but also negatively affect regional cooperation. Discussions in the Visegrád framework can become formal on a number of content issues. The position of the four governments on the two strategic issues, such as the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, the EU action for this and the coordination of the energy strategy, has not yet been fully uniform. At the Visegrád Prime Minister's meeting in May, however, others ruined the mood. Viktor Orbán's inauguration speech at the Polish Prime Minister in the centre of the right gave the guarantee. At the Prime Minister's meeting in Bratislava, the panel discussion following the expeditions became essentially a Tusk-Orbán debate reflecting a deep counter-value. However, this did not prevent Péter Szijjártó State Secretary for Foreign Affairs from calling the election of Donald Tusk a Hungarian success for the President of the European Council. Dear House, It is a fact that this decision has serious signals for Poland. 25 years after the change of regime and 10 years after the acquisition of EU membership, the country was able to put forward credible candidates acceptable and eligible by all other Member States in the competition for the Council Presidency, which is a huge political and diplomatic achievement. Tusk is conservative in European terms, while the Hungarian governing party is becoming increasingly embarrassing for its own party family. Tusk is a market-friendly, unconditional believer not only of the European Union, but also of the European values; the Hungarian Prime Minister stands for Eastern examples. Tusk's authority and unanimous vote is also due to the restoration of his country's relations with the European Union and Germany, where the free troops of the government protested " we will not be a colony " against Europe. In connection with the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, Tusk warned his colleagues expressing only business interests that freedom has a price to pay; the Hungarian Prime Minister sent the ambassadors back to the host countries by saying that only the weak and stupid follow a value-based policy. Péter Szijjártó may be right: By choosing Donald Tusk, the political weight of the region can also increase. However, it is important to see that, in addition to Martin Schulz and the conservative Junker on the left, the new Council leader is not a friend of the Orbán methods either. That's supposed to be a warning signal. It is therefore worth seeing these facts and these events. Of course, we support the agreement on mutual visa representation. At the same time, we express our hope that the entry into force of this agreement is a positive and forward-looking step in the development of Polish-Hungarian relations. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-222	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-15-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first place, I would just like to say that if someone is more committed to the Polish nation than I am, it is either you are Polish or you are lying. I am only saying this to show that we are absolutely positive not only for me, but also for the entire Jobbik fraction for the proposal before us, and I will not reveal a great secret if I say that we fully support it in this form as well. However, I have only one question, and I have no criticism, because it may be regulated later. As it happens, this mutual visa representation also means that one country issues documents for the other, in particular visas. However, it may be, and it is certain that there is a risk - not assuming the bad, of course, either of Polish colleagues or of ourselves, but surely there may be a risk that this will not be seen from the proposal before us - if we issue such documents in relation to the territory of another country and provide such benefits to any citizen. Are we as thorough in granting concessions as we do in our own country? And, for example, will Polish colleagues take due care when issuing visas to Hungary? I am thinking that it is enough here in the Central and Eastern European region that, unfortunately, the air is now powdery, and this always brings about the type of migration that is unexpected or unsupported by no one, especially illegal immigration and other non-official workers, which always carries an increased risk. My question specifically concerns the guarantees that we will be able to properly filter these risks for both Polish and Hungarian national security and will be able to filter them properly in Warsaw. Where are we on this? It is not clear from this proposal at this time. On the other hand, I stress once again that the Jobbik faction endorses and supports this proposal, and I would just like to have a specific answer to this question. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Mr Richard Hörcsik, on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Here you go. [[19.00]]
u2014-09-15-225	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I believe that the economic crisis that started in 2007-2008 has affected almost all the Member States of the European Union. In particular, we have seen this in the public administration of the Member States: they have sought to cut costs everywhere and introduce a kind of cost-effectiveness. I believe that the conclusion of visa representation agreements in the practice of the Schengen Member States shows this line for many stations in the creation of a more cost-effective visa issue with greater territorial coverage. Well, I believe that Hungary wants to take advantage of this opportunity, too, given that in many countries around the world, we do not have an authorised foreign representation for issuing visas. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Hungary has a fundamental interest in rationalising the issue of visas, increasing this efficiency, and allowing foreigners to have more access to the Hungarian Schengen visa than at present. It's in our fundamental interest. I believe that the simplest, cheapest and long-standing way of doing so is to establish a Community visa code, the visa representation provided for in Article 8 of the abovementioned Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009. The main provision of the Agreement therefore provides that the Contracting Parties may act on behalf of each other under the relevant Schengen acquis in the procedure for issuing visas, such as an airport transit visa, a uniform visa. However, as set out in the implementing agreements, representation may also be limited to some or certain elements of the visa issuing procedure, such as the provision of information on the issue of visas, and this shall include the appointment, interview, receipt and transmission of requests and supporting documents, or the recording of data, including, for example, biometric data, and the introduction of procedural fees. Well, the contracting parties can also assist each other in collecting biometric data for visas, residence permits and passport applications. I believe, Mr President, that, in the framework of the inter-ministerial implementation agreement to be concluded under this agreement, the parties are right to designate diplomatic and consular representations to which the framework agreements apply and to lay down the necessary technical and financial arrangements for cooperation and the rules on data protection. And finally, Mr President, I believe that this agreement is also beneficial to us because Hungarian foreign representations representing the Polish party can retain the full amount of visa fees. So the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group fully supports the publication of this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-15-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the floor on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Mikola István State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-15-227	Thank you very much, Mr President, just for a few sentences. I thank Mrs Márta Demeter for her support. He talked about the very wide horizon of Polish-Hungarian relations. Indeed, these relations are very important to us, dynamic relationships, in which there are debates, of course, but there are adequate institutions for carrying out these debates, for example, to talk about the V4, where we could discuss the latest political events in sober and not all agreed, but in a good tone and atmosphere of confidence. Thank you very much for your support, because this draft law is about publishing a mutual visa representation, and I think that this is very important. Thank you very much for your comments and support, Mr Mirkóczki. I trust that the Poles will act with similar thoroughness, and I think that there are obviously guarantees for this, and we will talk about it even after a detailed debate, but I would just like to note now that trust is the main guarantee, because there is trust between the two parties, and I think that there are institutional systems and frameworks that can make this trust work in daily practice. I thank Mr Richárd Hörcsik very much for his support, and it is indeed a very important thing, where we are talking about a more extensive access and application of the Community Visa Code, which is a common and, in practice, an advantage and solution for many citizens. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-228	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the European Police College until closure. The submission is T/1127. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I will give the floor first to Secretary of State Károly Kontra, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-15-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The European Police College, CEPOL, is an EU agency involved in training police officers from EU Member States. Its aim is to combat crime and to promote better European cooperation in order to maintain public security, legal and public order. Its tasks have increased significantly over the years and the Agency plays an increasingly important role in the dissemination of the knowledge needed to maintain the security of the Union. CEPOL is a very important institution, the European Police College, moving to Hungary, which means Budapest will be the most important centre of European police training. For example, one of the most important tasks of the police academy is to encourage cross-border law enforcement cooperation. This success is the result of a hard trial of over one year. This is the joint success of the Hungarian government and Hungarian MEPs, but it is very important recognition for Hungary. The fact that CEPOL can move to Hungary has had several precedents in recent years and decades. Hungary has traditionally played an important role in international and European law enforcement training, as we have been actively involved in CEPOL's activities, as well as in the Central European Police Academy, as well as in the international police academy. With the International Education Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, we are constantly paying particular attention to this area. Dear Parliament, The German working language KERA has been operating in Budapest since 1992. The aim of the KERA is to promote joint training and support practical international police cooperation in organised and cross-border crime activities. Member States: Austria, Hungary as founders, Czech Republic, Germany, Switzerland, Slovakia and Slovenia. Hungary also hosts ILEA, which is known as the FBI Academy. The academy is led by an American director appointed by the US Party, who is a special agent of the FBI and also a legal attaché diplomat of the U.S. embassy in Budapest. In the summer of 2013 it became clear that the Member States should immediately find a seat for CEPOL. The Ministry of Interior then submitted a tender, following the government's approved submission. Thanks to the experience, Hungary's ability to achieve very significant results in international cooperation was very important in the evaluation of the proposal. At their meeting on 8 October 2013, the home ministers of the Member States supported the Hungarian tender against six other applications. This decision was approved by the European Parliament, and in May 2014 a regulation was adopted to designate Budapest as the seat of CEPOL. As the seat of CEPOL, the safety requirements and the provisions of Article XXI shall apply. Renovated according to the needs of the century, we provide a building under 27 Ó Street. The renovation of the building was completed, and CEPOL also took possession of it on 1 September, during these weeks, while the agency's assets and staff were moving to Budapest. According to the EU Regulation and customary practice, EU agencies enter into a so-called headquarters agreement with the Member State in which they are established. This includes basic rules for their operation, their privileges and their exemptions. This bill seeks the approval of the Parliament to ratify the headquarters agreement signed between the Hungarian Government and CEPOL on 18 August 2014. [[19.10]] The acquisition of the seat of the Agency is a significant success for Hungary, given that it is the first EU agency to choose Hungary as its seat following our accession to the Union on 1 May 2004. That is why I ask honourable Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-230	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-minute time frame by group of representatives. I give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-231	Mr President, Dear House, The MSZP welcomes the decision of the Council of the Union and the European Parliament, as a result of which the European Police College, CEPOL, will continue to operate in Budapest from September. This development is an important result for Budapest and Hungary as well. This result is a fine example of genuine national cooperation, of joint work, as Hungarian representatives from both left and right sides of the European Parliament have worked actively to achieve this goal. It also shows that, in the interests of eligible cases, we are able to produce results by working together. The submitted headquarters agreement creates the essential conditions for CEPOL's successful operation in Hungary by providing the necessary infrastructure and diplomatic representation exemptions. As a European agency, CEPOL aims to promote cooperation between the Member States of the Union in the field of law enforcement training, thereby ensuring the transfer and exchange of expertise and best practices. By doing so, CEPOL will help the European Union to become a truly united area of freedom, security and justice, in line with the objectives set out in the Lisbon Treaty. The achievement of this noble goal requires close and professional cooperation between the judicial and police bodies of the Member States. A high level of common knowledge and knowledge can greatly enhance this desirable cooperation and increase its effectiveness. As authorities in different Member States also have to work together in the most diverse areas of life, CEPOL's training offers are therefore very wide: from counter-terrorism to cybercrime, from drug trafficking to disaster management, from judicial expertise to fraud. It provides both residential training and online training for police officers. By moving the academy to Budapest, Hungary has benefited from the operation of CEPOL as an EU Member State, but by moving the Academy to Budapest, Hungary can gain further benefits, thus making it one of the biggest beneficiaries of its operation. The most obvious advantage is that the training of CEPOL will be more easily accessible to Hungarian officers when the geographical distance is gone, but more importantly, a significant part of the Union's finest law enforcement professionals and trainers will continue to stay in our country, making it much easier for Hungarian law enforcement and the members of the Hungarian teaching staff to build personal and professional relationships with the world's leading professionals. I am sure that Hungarian experts will use this excellent opportunity, which in the long term can have a very infertilizing effect on Hungarian law enforcement and can significantly increase the level of Hungarian law enforcement education, and as a result of the higher quality, increasingly high-quality law enforcement training, more and more prepared police officers can emerge from educational institutions. As a result of many years of work, this positive effect can become tangible for all Hungarian citizens, so we are particularly pleased that Hungary, among the agencies of the European Union, can host CEPOL in the next period. For this reason, the MSZP will, of course, vote in favour of the draft law on the publication of the Headquarters Agreement. At the same time, I must draw the attention of my pro-government colleagues to the fact that the Treaty is for a period of ten years, but the EU membership is a prerequisite for CEPOL's operation in Hungary. It can only be hoped that the stable existence of this precondition will not be shaken by the ever more violent outbursts of the President of Hungary, the Prime Minister of Hungary, and in ten years we will still be members of the European Union. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-232	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I am not as optimistic as the presentation by my colleague before me and your Secretary of State, as and as he presented this proposal. I would like to add and state right from the outset that I have a problem or problem with the fact that Budapest is home to the headquarters of a police academy for the future, but the real problem is that if someone reads through this proposal, everything here is about what the Hungarian government is supposed to provide from the Hungarian taxpayers' money, every single paragraph, every sentence is about what Hungary's obligation is. What we get in return, there's nothing left. That is why we provide such amazing exemptions and discounts - beyond the fact that the ten-year dedication of the property itself raises serious questions without any consideration. Given the current state of public security in Hungary and the situation of the Hungarian police - and I really do not want to be lost in such detail as the challenges faced by some settlements or regions or where we have not yet managed to set up a police station, where the district commissioners are present for a limited period of time, and the rest, or to mention the fuel supply of police cars, which are everyday problems in many parts of the country. On the other hand, I would like to ask how much it costs Hungarian taxpayers, if you will, to secure this seat. How much is the building? Have any calculations been made regarding the maintenance of this academy... - since the proposal includes the fact that every single cost is borne by the Hungarian State, the Hungarian Government; it will be here who will be who will be who will be who they are, which is not known at this time - but in return we will not receive anything, we will even grant exemptions from taxes, visas, from everything, to all actors and relatives of any actor who will have any business at this academy. Now, I could really go from utility charges to exemptions, but I'd just like to highlight some amazing sentences. For example, "The building and premises of the agency are inviolable, " - that's all right - " they are exempt from search, seizure, confiscation, expropriation " and the rest, and the rest. " This raises a problem, because beyond the fact that it is a public authority or a public authority, we have seen a crow on a stake, not only in Hungary and in Europe, but in many countries of the world's so-called advanced democracies, and this seems to rule out that we are not involved in what is happening. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but it's a bit of an exaggeration to say in Article 5 right away. Then the proposal discusses the exemption from tax and customs procedures for quite a long time, which is a bit odd. Thus, the fact that employees who receive a salary in Hungary do not have to pay taxes; if they buy something in Hungary, then VAT can be claimed back - so the proposal provides for all kinds of such things, which raises the reasons why. So I understand a great deal of support in return for something equally important, tangible product, service, whatever. Now it's okay that there is a training course, and obviously employees or future employees or professionals of Hungarian law enforcement can apply for it, but this is in the light of this support, to say you are not in balance, and then I put it very delicately. [[19.20]] Once again, if the Secretary of State could give me an amount, let's just say close to how much it will cost for the next ten years, then we would be much smarter, since this is not a negligible question. And once again, Hungarian public security is not at this stage, unfortunately, or is not in a state where the most important thing for us in the area of law enforcement is whether or not an EU agency is putting its seat here. Once again, the establishment of a police academy and the seat of Budapest is fine, so it is not the message itself or the service that we have a problem with, but this very, very one-sided proposal. And if it turns out that it is many, many millions a year, don't give'god, it consumes billions of dollars from the Hungarian budget - I don't know, now I said it on my stomach - then there is a problem with it, as long as the Hungarian police, as long as the Hungarian law enforcement agencies are struggling with elementary challenges in everyday life that are in other countries - how should I put it? - it is self-evident that it should be treated first, so that if we stick to the priorities, it may not be the most important. And once again, I am not against you, and I can even say that towards the end of the previous term, my colleague Zsolt Csenger-Zalán and I attended a hearing with CEPOL in Brussels, which was already in its final stages, when the two of us represented Hungary from the Police Committee, and my aim was not to prevent this if the government so much wants it, but only to say such conditions. So if you look at this, you take it and - not too long - you read it, you scream that it's terribly one-sided, and the remuneration doesn't really appear. So the first and most important thing is how much it costs. Have any calculations been made at all? What is the reason why we should be exempt from tax, exempt from customs duties and all kinds of exemptions in order to ensure a seat, and in return the Hungarian government has only an obligation to do so? However, nothing else; so - how shall I put it? - your rights or rebuttal are no longer included. I would like to get an answer to that in the first place, because this will obviously have a major impact on Jobbik's attitude in terms of voting. I'm sorry, Secretary of State, that's not enough reason for me to support you just because another EU agency has chosen Budapest as your seat. That's not quite fair from that point of view. I think that the current state of public security in Hungary really requires development, and it really requires that serious amounts and serious energies must continue to be spent at all levels of law enforcement, but that is - how should I put it? - it does not point in the direction that this will lead to more police officers with more serious means, serious driver's licenses and the rest, in the Hungarian settlements, on the Hungarian streets. While I say it again, I do not think that the challenges should be presented to a Hungarian Secretary of State for Home Affairs, which is now in Hungary, but what concerns public states is - how should I put it? - it's not gonna fix it a bit. This is what I wanted to say in the first round, and once again, I would like to know how much this will cost the Hungarian taxpayers. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, will be taking the floor. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In spring 2014, the European Parliament adopted a proposal allowing the European Police College to move from the United Kingdom to Hungary. The decision is a joint success of Fidesz-KDNP MEPs and an outstanding recognition for Hungary. Fifteen years ago, internal security, law enforcement and law enforcement were more domestic issues in each country. Once the international character of crime was strengthened, the European Union had to give an adequate response, one of the forms of which is the development of cross-border cooperation. This is why the European Police College was established in 2005. The academy has become an agency of the European Union, a decentralised agency managed by 28 countries. Its task is to train police officers, in particular to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement agencies to respond to threats, focusing on threats with European scope, such as drug trafficking or terrorism. In order to promote stronger cross-border action against organised crime, the Academy will convene senior police officers from all over Europe to share best practices and knowledge. Each year, the Academy organises around 100 different activities on important issues affecting European forces, such as cybercrime, drug trafficking, disaster prevention, judicial expertise and anti-fraud. Every year, thousands of police officers attend courses, seminars, conferences, online seminars at the academy. In addition, I think it is important to stress that since 2010, the director of the European Police College has also been Hungarian, Ferenc Bánfi. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a great honor for the Hungarian police, the Ministry of the Interior and our country that Budapest is home to such an institution. Of the seven applicant countries, it is no coincidence that our country has been elected. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-15-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within a 15-15-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-15-237	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary did not apply for the first time for the seat of an EU agency, as five years ago the European Institute of Innovation and Technology started its operation in Budapest, which operates under three partnerships, if I remember correctly, the association dealing with climate change and mitigation, sustainable energy and information and communication technology. I would like to stress that this bill is also backed by a successful proposal, which was fundamentally fast compared to EU decision-making. As my fellow Member Vas Imre mentioned, the European Police College has so far been based in Great Britain, which last year indicated that it does not wish to host the Agency this autumn. I believe that CEPOL, which brings together senior police officers in Europe, is encouraging cross-border cooperation in order to combat crime and maintain public security, law and order. Thus, as we read in the proposal, CEPOL aims to be the prime source of education and development for the cooperating agencies and authorities in the police and scientific world in the field of expertise and training for better European cooperation and police protection. The Lithuanian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, at an informal meeting of Justice and Home Affairs Ministers held on 18 July 2013, indicated that Member States should immediately find a new temporary seat. Well, in the Justice and Home Affairs Council, as we have heard, Hungary's proposal won the necessary support in the vote held at its meeting on 8 October 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the fact that CEPOL has a place in Budapest is an honor, not only for the home affairs profession, but also for Hungary's role in the European Union. Because there has been a kind of competition between the Member States, between seven Member States, about where the EU institution should go, in this case the police academy. And it is a matter of prestige whether a Member State can obtain the operation of an EU institution. [[19.30]] I believe that the diplomatic success of the Hungarian Government is that we have won this tender, and with this EU institution in Budapest, Hungary is making good news, and the fact that we do want to take our part in European Union cooperation. I believe that the appearance of this kind of institution in Budapest will help not only the Hungarian but also the Central European law enforcement bodies to work together more closely to combat law enforcement. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-15-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What has been said here by Members is all very nice. We just want answers on how much this will cost. Okay, all right, great credit. Sure. We applied, too. However, the question arises as to why the English did not have to. But how much will this cost Hungarian citizens? Richard Hörcsik mentioned that there is already an EU agency in the country, otherwise there are 37 such agencies in the European Union, and there is already an agency that exists in our country, and this is where the work is done. That's where we start. Because if we look at the budget figures, how much has the European Institute of Innovation and Technology cost us so far? The budget figures show that in 2012, it cost 662 million HUF, 732 million HUF in 2013, and in 2014 it costs us 460 million HUF to maintain this institute. This is 1.8 billion forints, isn't it? And this is what my fellow Member was trying to say: whether Hungary is in a position today, at the moment, in the position of Hungarian public security at the moment, whether we would rather spend 1.8 billion forints on developing the police, if that is what it will cost us for, say, three years. We do not forget that the placement of the European Police College or international police further training institute is clearly a priority case for you, and we already know from the figures that the government has transferred more than half a billion forints to the rehabilitation of property and its surroundings under 27 O Street in the autumn of 2013. This is already a budget expenditure, and what my fellow Member has said is that we are giving free of charge for at least ten years, we are paying the utility charges, we are sending them to the Academy on behalf of the Hungarian State. So we are curious to know what kind of background calculations preceded the apparently generous agreement. Here it would be possible to fully support the great recognition that you have given us, how good it will be for Hungary, how we can cooperate with the various European police forces, if we knew how much this would cost the Hungarian State, if we knew how much the taxpayers' money would cost us to come to Hungary and this organization would work here in Hungary. The law enforcement agencies, and I didn't get here, because we know that it's a separate chapter with you, your source, confirm, Mr. Secretary, for the time being, I feel it's a disgrace. They may be trying to help these things, but I don't think there's enough money for that, and we don't need to be able to turn more resources into the police. Infrastructure is incomplete, staff salaries are far below what is expected, and crime indicators have not improved in recent years, although you are trying to show this, but are showing a negative trend. Mr. Secretary, they're showing a negative trend because I see you shaking your head. It is not necessary to produce statistics, but to provide public security to people in Hungary! Statistics can be produced, we know very well, we have information about how they are born in Hungary today before elections, let us say, statistics in the police department, what can not be entered, and what they are trying to hide from people. So, in addition to these indicators, go out among the people and ask them, when they feel that there is no proper public security in Hungary, there are only promises of public security, then, I feel it may be appropriate to raise the question of how many billion forints we will finance this new treaty. Let me just say one thing to you. There are cases that may not show what the statistics show. Let's take a look at the murder of Soroksari. Secretary of State, a year ago, a year ago, you didn't even have a suspect! A year ago, the police were unable to find the person who committed this outrage in the Soroksár murder. We're saying the police don't have any money, so I'm guessing that's why you didn't issue a proper lead in this case. The presidency of the Jobbik Hungary Movement has done so, and we will contribute to finding this killer as soon as possible. We offered a million forints to the lead who would finally provide evidence or clues to the police that could catch the brutal killer who executed this mother. So the police have problems. And we would just like to have an answer to that, as you said, my fellow Member, that we are in favour of ensuring that there is as much security as possible. If CEPOL serves this, we also support this in Hungary, we only know how much it will cost us and how much it will benefit us, how much it will be worth to Hungarian citizens in the situation where the Hungarian police are. We want Hungary to have a strong police force, strong public security, and the people of Hungary to live safely. If this contributes to this, we will be happy to support it. Just tell us how much this will cost to Hungary according to your calculations and background calculations. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was put forward by MEP Adam Mirkóczki, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I really don't want to waste time. I just want to ask the Secretary of State a favor. In particular, it would be good for you to respond now, in the debate, rather than in the author's closing. 'Cause I think what you're answering is, I'm sure, just assuming you're asking me more questions. If it's just that it's a prestige for Hungary and that it offers expertise, then I think it's a very bad deal. Because if the only advantage of having a headquarters in Hungary is that our law enforcement staff can get skills that they are not getting now in Hungary, then I ask the poetic question whether foreign scholarships provided to them would not be cheaper than that we would bring here an academy with a relatively large apparatus and their relatives, free and paid for ten years, full of discounts. So I would like you to be kind enough to do what you know in this debate, Mr Secretary of State, and not to answer it in your closet. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. It's for the Secretary of State.
u2014-09-15-243	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to the voice of Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Thank you for your support, thank you for your statement of support for the bill. I trust that you will also support it in the vote. As regards the Prime Minister's findings on the Prime Minister, I reject them. The Prime Minister and the Hungarian Government always act in the interests of Hungary on all matters. Your fear at the end of your speech is completely unfounded. As far as Congressman Adam Mirkóczki is concerned, I would like to take the lead before answering specific questions, to say that we have seen the right attitude here, as in all legislative proposals on law enforcement matters: they seem to try to stand up for order, but when it comes to support, they do not support the bill. Here too, for example, the remuneration of professional staff has been mentioned, but when we create the resources for this in the budget, they never support the budget, they never vote for it. [[György Szilágyi: For salad.]] The budget is not salad, Congressman. That's not a salad law. You know that. [[19.40]] I would like to say that when the Member asks the question that there are exemptions for CEPOL's staff, what do we get - the institution. As Imre Vas, Richárd Hörcsik, my fellow members of the Government said, it is also included in the national expoze and in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal, so six other countries, together with seven countries, have applied for the agency. These conditions would have been agreed by all the applicant countries, and obviously everyone has applied on the condition that these conditions, which, by the way, are included in Protocol 7 of the EU, have been undertaken by the applicant countries. As far as the building is concerned, the renovation of the building and its equipment cost HUF 640 million. The question of why they don't pay taxes here, because they don't get their salaries from the Hungarian State, Congressman. There is no specific calculations or experience to be paid, because the operation is now underway, but obviously you will be able to ask me as a Member of Parliament in any of the genres, and there we will be able to answer specifically on the basis of experience what costs are incurred, we are available, and I think that there is no obstacle to this. But I would like to say that CEPOL is a significantly smaller institution than the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, which Mr Szilágyi has brought up in his speech, these costs will be significantly lower, so we will provide information on the payment of overhead costs that must be paid. Overall, it has been repeatedly formulated or asked by the right-wing Members how much it costs, how much it costs - in this way they have put it - to the country. So once again, I have told you about the costs of renovation and equipment and equipment, and we will be able to inform you about the other costs after they have been discovered. But I would like to say that what we need to know is that this will be of great importance in the training of Hungarian police officers, in the knowledge of best practices, in the acquisition and transfer of the latest scientific knowledge, in the expansion of cooperation, and this will also contribute to improving public security in Hungary, which is supported by the government by all means. By the way, I would just like to note that in your comment here, Congressman Mirkóczki, I wish we could increase the number of police. When I am talking about police numbers here in Parliament, my right-wing fellow Members will be immediately nervous because I tell them how much we have increased police numbers. I'm just saying, again, from 2010 [[György Szilágyi: grew by 4300.]] You know that, but you don't support it. So once again, they ask me how much we've increased our numbers, and then somewhere else they complain about why we always say the same numbers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that our government is committed to improving public order and public security and provides the necessary means for law enforcement bodies to do so. Returning to the bill: I hope that this support, which has been expressed and confirmed here in Parliament's comments, will also appear in the vote and will support it, because, once again, this is a significant success - a significant success - for Hungary, the success of the joint cooperation of Hungarian MEPs is the result of this, that CEPOL will move to Budapest, and I trust that this will also contribute to the safety of everyday life after the start of its operation. With respect to this, I ask the Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-244	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters will follow. The submission is T/60. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In this debate, I give the floor first to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-09-15-245	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters was drawn up jointly by the Council of Europe and the OECD on 25 January 1988. The main objective of the Convention is to provide States Parties with the opportunity to take effective action against international tax avoidance. It also aims to help States Parties to better enforce their own internal tax rules while respecting taxpayers' rights. In addition to the exchange of information on request, the Convention also allows the use of other forms of assistance in tax matters. These include automatic and spontaneous exchange of information, simultaneous and cross-border tax checks and assistance in collecting tax claims. At their summit in London in 2009, the G20 called for the renewal of the convention to reflect more closely the commitment to international tax evasion and to make the benefits of a new, cooperative tax environment available to developing countries. The initiative led the Council of Europe and the OECD to draw up a protocol amending the Convention in 2010 in such a way as to bring it into line with the latest international practice in the exchange of tax information. Accordingly, it also included the international requirement that a State should not refuse to exchange information in tax matters on grounds of bank secrecy or lack of its own internal tax interest. The possibility of signing the Convention has been opened from 2011 to the Council and non-OECD States. As a result, 67 States and 10 jurisdictions have already acceded to this agreement. The accession to the Convention and the Protocol has been justified, in addition to a number of technical reasons, by our membership of the OECD and the Council of Europe, and has now been signed by nearly all OECD Member States. The text of the Convention was approved by the Government in a decision and signed in November 2013. With the signing of the Convention and the Protocol, the tax authority's toolbox will be expanded with a number of new elements to better enforce our tax rules. In particular, the implementation of the full exchange of information in non-EU Member States and the provision of assistance on additional taxes, which are in excess of the administrative cooperation provided by the Double Taxation Conventions, are of particular importance. Dear Parliament, Based on what has been said, please support and accept the bill. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-246	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP group. Here you go.
u2014-09-15-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no and perhaps no debate between the parliamentary parties as to whether such international treaties are necessary, so that tax fraud and tax evasion can be contained, and to that end, I believe that we need to conclude this treaty. It cannot be a dispute that Hungary must be on the side of those who want to do something about tax avoidance and tax evasion, not on the side of countries that support tax optimisation or tax avoidance, obviously on the side of Hungary. Therefore, if Hungary wishes to take action to reduce international tax avoidance, one of the steps of this is to support the exchange of information between tax authorities with its own means, support the cooperation of tax administrations, and automatically send and receive data under the Convention, but also participate in other administrative assistance. [[19.50]] These include automatic exchange of information, even spontaneously, simultaneous tax control and tax control abroad, data provision and assistance in collecting tax claims. A wide range of administrative assistance between tax administrations helps to ensure that individual states are able to enforce their internal tax rules more effectively and to make public money more accessible, and, of course, to manage more transparently than public funds, so that they can fully serve important goals for society. This transparency is also to be facilitated by this Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Socialist Party will therefore support this proposal. However, I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that, although the government has explained in detail the reasons for concluding the convention in its explanatory memorandum, there is still a loophole in the Convention which is making this convention less effective, impairs cooperation and worsens the achievement of its objectives. According to the agreement, the Hungarian Government reserves the right not to provide assistance through the NAV in respect of certain tax claims. This means, for example, that the tax authority does not disclose to a foreign tax authority information about the opening of a so-called stability savings account by a foreign national established in Hungary. As you know, this structure, which has been operating for more than six months, which has been referred to as a very polite tax amnesty in a number of press organisations - some who have not said so politely - is referred to as a tax amnesty by the press, and the experts refer to this construction as such, which means that whatever income generated can be made legal. The financial institution shall not disclose personal data to the tax authority, and the tax authority shall no longer act in respect of the income thus legalised, in possession of the certificate issued. Ladies and gentlemen, If Hungary wants to take serious action in order to avoid international taxation, such a loophole cannot be allowed to enter into such an agreement. Of course, if Hungary really wants to take action to protect public funds, the Hungarian State would probably not have to do business with offshore companies either. With all of this, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group will vote in favour of the adoption of the bill on the basis of the tax convention before us, i.e. on the grounds stated, but on the basis of the observations made. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-15-248	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-15-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am trying very briefly to sum up Jobbik's position. Jobbik has always been a fan of clean, transparent financial and other management in the lives of businesses and has always supported international cooperation aimed at preventing tax evasion. Thus, basically, the objectives of this Convention can, of course, be agreed. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, there has been a recent tax bill before the Parliament, where Hungary is leading, and in this case, unfortunately, because certain taxable persons are moving to other Member States, and thus exclude themselves from paying the domestic tax burden. It is possible within the European Union community, which is also a tariff community, to do so. So I would like to ask the government, first of all, to strive in tax policy to ensure that Hungary does not suffer a competitive disadvantage as a result of this, or the tax disadvantages which, for example, involve higher tax levels, effective tax burdens, can be cut off as far as possible. I would like to remind you that there are laws in front of the National Assembly where we have issues concerning various tax laws, and we also have the closing act before us, which also shows that there is a high tax burden in Hungary compared to the countries of the region, so it is legal that they will try to avoid this. In this respect, of course, we benefit from and support cooperation, but it would be very important to have a balance in the tax rates as compared to the countries of the region. What my Socialist fellow Member has mentioned here is indeed a very important and living problem, because at the moment, if someone puts their income from other sources or black into Hungarian sovereign debt for five years, they have the opportunity not to examine the origin of this money, they will receive the returns on the sovereign debt market in five years' time, and then they will be able to account for it as a legal clean income, and no one will be able to hold him accountable. These are questions that I think should be addressed. And this is not only a simple opposition concern that someone, even a black income, if any, is washing and legalising in this way, but it is also rightly an objection from other EU countries to the Hungarian tax system. After all, if we, say Switzerland or other states, even outside the European Union, or European Union states, are required to represent the interests of the Hungarian budget in a similar international cooperation, then it is natural for them to expect this from us on a reciprocal basis and rightly ask that we do not do the same gesture to them, which, by the way, occurs elsewhere in the absence of tax deficits or tax forints. So it would certainly be necessary to patch these holes, but basically we can support this cooperation at international level. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-15-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speech by Mrs Schmuck Erzsébet, lead speaker of the LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-15-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The May Other Policy welcomes the proposal to announce the convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters before us, which is an important milestone in various efforts to combat tax avoidance and tax evasion at international level in recent years, whether bilateral or multilateral. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] We believe that it is vitally important for Hungary to play a role in this cooperation, above all in facilitating the precise definition of tax liabilities. Some estimates suggest that about ten thousand Hungarians can have offshore businesses. According to the compilation of the Hungarian Nemzet, the value of the property spent in tax havens can reach $10 billion, which translates to HUF 2000 billion in Hungarian forints. In the last quarter, more than two-and-a-half-fold of public debt has migrated to various tax havens. The amount is missing from hospitals, schools, pension systems. The various austerity packages, from Prime Minister Bokros to Prime Minister Orbán, would not have been needed to this extent if it had not been possible to unscrupulously pump income out of the country. International tax avoidance techniques have a significant role to play in ensuring that state redistributive systems are unfunded. I think that the country cannot afford to lose significant tax revenue through companies registered in tax havens. Compared to this, instead of taking a leading initiative, the government is taking action, there is no change in the essential points. Four years ago, Fidesz promised to start accounting by investigating ten plus one case after he went to government. The ten plus one case included investigating the offshore interests of state leaders. Unfortunately, every day we can see offshore companies pumping out the revenues generated in Hungary in the field of energy, during stadium constructions and other public investments, from the Hungarian National Bank, the film industry, gambling and tobacco trading, or even through domestic food chains. The government pretends to keep fighting offshore knights. Compared to that, offshore transactions continue undisturbed. What else could be explained by the fact that the majority of the government wiped out all of LMP's proposals, which would have excluded offshore companies from domestic business? Or that the Fidesz majority has not included a series of articles in the LMP bill that would severely ban all offshore activities in the case of state leaders and government officials? [[20.00]] A few years ago, in relation to offshore transactions, the counter-argument that it is impossible to tax the money that flows out of the country's tax systems in this way was found on a regular basis. However, in recent times, the world has set several examples that this is possible: Germany, France, the USA, China and even the Russia that you prefer. In the last four years, the government has only used it to soften up previous legislation, to unfair tax amnesty against honest taxpayers, to introduce a special savings account for money laundering and to facilitate offshore real estate transactions. The government's main action in this case was the abolition of previous rules that strictly restrict tax avoidance. They argued against the imposition of offshore taxes that it was of no use in practice. The main question remains: how does the government intend to ensure that the income generated by Hungary is taxed by our countrymen with offshore companies in the same way as those who live on wages and salaries do. The Convention on mutual administrative assistance in tax matters initiated by international organisations in front of us ensures that we can even automatically obtain foreign tax information from our compatriots. However, despite technological development and this international agreement, the possibility does not seem to encourage the Hungarian authorities to use these tools to tax assets hidden behind offshore companies owned by Hungarian private individuals. A drastic solution is therefore needed. In order to reduce tax avoidance, the LMP would levy a tax on income and wealth saved in tax havens. On the one hand, we would introduce a 30 per cent offshore tax on references to countries with which our country did not enter into a double tax convention, and on the other hand we would tighten up the concept of controlled foreign companies in the corporate tax law and tax their income. With this, we can ensure that the income generated in Hungary is taxed by our fellow countrymen using tax-optimizing techniques that avoid tax in Hungary, just as honest taxpayers do. Please, fellow Members, be partners in this. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-15-252	Welcome to my fellow Members. I'm asking the Fidesz and KDNP faction if you'd like to put on a lead speaker. [[No one's reporting.]] No application. I don't see any other speakers on the monitor. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Then I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[András Tállai says no.]] But it indicates he doesn't want to comment. I would like to point out that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic on the common state border between the two countries between the towns of Abaújvár and the settlements of Kenyhec on the road Hernád Bridge and the draft law on the construction of the connecting roads until closure follows. The submission is T/807. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2014-09-15-253	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an increasing demand for the development of infrastructure in the border region between Hungary and Slovakia and for the expansion of the number of crossings, given the fact that both countries are members of the European Union and that cross-border crossings are entirely free under the Schengen Convention. On the basis of the contracts between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic, the contracting parties must always conclude a separate agreement on the establishment of border bridges with a structure of more than 30 metres. The structural length of the Hernád Bridge between Abaújvár and Kenyhec is planned to be about 61 metres, so the construction requires a separate international treaty. The construction of the Hernád Bridge can create a road link between the border settlements that have been isolated so far. The new link opens up a new opportunity for the local population and the region's farming organisations in particular. Dear Parliament, The purpose of this bill is to publish by law the bilateral agreement signed in Bratislava in June this year. Under the relevant legislation, the mandatory scope of major international treaties can only be recognised by the mandate of the Parliament. On this basis, I would ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/807. Please adopt a bill tabled and support the publication of the agreement. Please allow me to indicate in the last sentence, who may not be familiar with the area, that this old road 3, so the Miskolc-Kassa road directly to the border, facilitates local transport. Thank you for your attention and your support. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-09-15-254	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-minute time frame by group of representatives. I give the floor to Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-15-255	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The T/807 in front of this House. The bill No.1 is, as the Secretary of State mentioned, the announcement of the agreement between the municipalities of Abaújvár and Kenyhec on the north-east border of Hungary and Slovakia on the construction of the Hernád Bridge and the connecting roads. As the lead speaker of the Fidesz faction and the regional parliamentary representative of Abaúj and Zemplén, I fully support the agreement signed between the two countries on 27 February 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the agreement in question is only about the construction of a so-called transport artifact, a bridge of 61 metres long and 3.8 metres wide, it also dwarfs the volume of infrastructure investments planned between the two countries, but I must say that it is extremely important because it is already an integral part of the economy and reconnects the Abaúj region artificially separated in 1920. We, fellow Members, who live in Abaúj and Zemplén on any side of the border, still suffer from this. Yes, because as a result of the first world war that just started a hundred years ago, the Czechoslovaks separated from each other, as the development of the Hungarian region of Abaúj and Zemplén, stopped. The number of so-called sacs and settlements was created, which was aggravated by the devastation of World War II, and unfortunately the trends of migration have not been reversed either on the Slovak or on the Hungarian border. Ladies and gentlemen, The construction of this bridge, however small it may be, has symbolic significance. For example, if we look at any euro banknote, we see a bridge on it for a reason, as a symbol of cooperation between EU Member States. With this bridge, we also serve the cooperation of two countries, two regions, and I could say that we are curing some kind of historical wounds between Slovakia and Hungary. We all know that, with the EU membership of the two countries and the breakdown of the Schengen borders, as the Secretary of State has said, the physical boundaries have ceased, and therefore, of course, the obstacles to economic, social and cultural cooperation have also disappeared. However, in many cases - like between Kenyhec and Abaújvár - the Hernád River as a natural border has not ceased, so real cooperation can be achieved by building the bridge and connecting roads that once existed and by restoring the old bridge. [[20.10]] Therefore, when the so-called HUSK call for proposals was launched in 2009, the municipalities of the municipalities of Kenyhec and Abaújvár, who otherwise had a close relationship with each other, never saw a chance to join forces, and it was found that the joint past of the Hungarian-Slovak border region several decades ago might once again be intertwined. This part of the Hungarian-Slovak Abaúj region was connected several decades ago between Abaújvár and Kenyhec by a wooden bridge, on which the inhabitants of Abaújvár, Kékeed, Pányok, Zsujta and Telkibánya were free to cross the Hungarian-Slovak border with a double certificate. The bridge was a close link to the villages of Kenyhec, Migsék, Sina and, of course, the town of Košice, of the old county. According to the elders, several young people learned about Abaújvár in Košice city's civic and secondary schools, as well as for elementary school students often organized theatre visits, and even named Abaújvár-Kenyhec a stop for the railway stop that was only a few kilometers away from Hernád Bridge, and in a short time the city of Košice became available to daily students, health care seekers, shopping places and market travellers. However, the bridge connecting families and friends was blown up at dawn on 17 December 1944, thus cutting off the two regions and eliminating the possibility of crossing. This has interrupted close, decades of family, relatives and friends relations for those living in this part of the region. At the time of the call, the designation of the area for development was therefore given to the municipalities, since their common goal, as we read from the submitted proposal, is to " increase the economic competitiveness of the Hungarian-Slovak border region, increase social and cultural coherence between people and communities, improve the availability and information flow of border areas ". The development plan, my fellow Members, was formulated years ago in the heads of the municipalities of Abaújvár and Kenyhec. The partners have been actively involved in project ideas and project activities since 2009 and the municipality's leaders. Several discussions have been held between the leaders of the two settlements, either in Kenyhecen, Abaújvár or in Miskolc, in order to support the preparation of the project for years. The minutes of the consultations have been drawn up. In order to achieve the common objectives and joint plans, participants have strengthened their relationship in the framework of the so-called Partnership Declaration for the establishment of a partnership. Ladies and gentlemen, Thanks to the geographical location of the settlements, their common historical past, and the ties that have existed for decades, all conditions have been given to establish a viable, long-term partnership, which will benefit the entire region with this bridge. The development of the region and the promotion of the transport of the Slovakian-Hungarian border area are therefore the basis for the establishment of the partnership on both sides. In order to maintain the development of border areas, improving cross-border transport and linking the area separated by the Hernád border river can significantly improve the situation of a number of peripheral rural areas located close to the border, both in Slovakia and in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this project will benefit everyone. It needs to be implemented by people on both sides of the border. On the one hand, the intensive development of the village of Kenyhec and the industrial park closer to the bridge can also have a positive impact on the development of the areas in Hungary, where the unemployment of the abaúj-mountain region, the Gönc and the district of Tátaljaújhely is expected to be significantly reduced, and on the other hand, it can provide labour supply for enterprises operating in the industrial park in Slovak areas and significantly improve transport links. The construction of the bridge thus has a positive impact on the lives of the people living in the region, both in Slovakia and in Hungary. Thanks to improved transport links, labour market demand in Kenya's industrial park is expected to lead to higher educational attainment in these unfortunately depopulation villages in Abaúj. Keeping young skilled workers in place may help to stop the continuous decline in the population. The availability of Zemplén, which is increasingly attractive to people living in Slovakia, is further improved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Kenyhec's medium-term plans include, for example, the construction of an integrated European school, where students receive multilingual education at European level, including in Hungarian, from kindergarten to higher education, to meet the needs of businesses operating and settling in the industrial park. Ladies and gentlemen, By linking the two settlements and deepening their cooperation, the competitiveness of the disadvantaged Abaúj region, I believe, can be clearly promoted, and the Zemplén area offers many tourist opportunities for the inhabitants of Slovak settlements. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-15-256	Thank you. I give the floor to László Kiss, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-09-15-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We heard very important sentences a few minutes ago, as it highlights the importance of this proposal for this region, which my fellow Member Hörcsik spoke about, and therefore the Hungarian Socialist Group supports the adoption of the bill. We believe that the construction of the bridge will help Hungarian-Hungarian relations and economic cooperation in the region. I am very pleased that the speakers before me in the presentation referred to the settlement in the Slovak name, the Hungarian name in parentheses, with its Hungarian name. I don't know if there is any reason why the Hungarian submission should have a similar name, so the Hungarian name should appear in brackets and the Slovak name should appear in parentheses. I think this would perhaps be desirable in the Hungarian language version. If you will allow me, I will use the Hungarian name of the settlements for all the settlements involved in my speech. We also consider it very important that the Prime Minister of the two countries agreed at the Hungarian-Slovak Summit on 2 July on a comprehensive development of transport relations between the two countries. We believe that this comprehensive development can be part of a strategy that settles relations between the two countries and together represents an economic opening for both countries, in which both parties and, in particular, the Hungarian nation as a whole can profit. Thus, between 2014 and'20, 25 new cross-border routes are opened, and perhaps the Secretary of State has also referred to this welcome fact. In addition, it was decided to connect the electricity and gas pipelines of the two countries. All of this is a welcome step forward, and we can welcome these with this proposal. We can also welcome you because the former position of the MSZP has long been that communication between these countries for Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin may be the only way that can be profitable for all Hungarians, the Hungarian nation. For this reason, the Socialist Group continues to recommend maintaining this communication, holding joint government meetings and constantly reviewing ongoing cases, and that their positions should be reviewed regularly by both governments. We also consider it important because, unfortunately, in relation to Hungarian-Slovak relations, we can no longer talk about such a welcome step forward as we are now in relation to other bridges. I am not confident that this bridge will stand, although I think everyone who is here in this House would like this bridge to stand on the basis of the very same arguments that my fellow Member Hörcsik has well said to the previous ones. [[20.20]] However, with regard to bridges across another river, Ipoly, it is clear that the decision of the government and the parliament of the Republic of Hungary is not always enough. The Hungarian Government recently informed its Slovak partner that the construction of bridges between the Ipolyon Vámosmikola, Ipolypástó, Ipolydamásd, Helemba and Ipolyvisk municipalities " became impossible. " It is already a question in itself, of course, how does the construction of a bridge or the construction of several bridges become impossible for each party. I do not wish to make picnic comments on this issue, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the construction of bridges that both governments would like to see would be absolutely welcome, not only on Hernád, but also on Ipoly. The Slovak party responded to this letter in an interesting way. As a response, Árpád Érsek, State Secretary for Transport of the Slovak Government, informed the Slovak public at a press conference that the intergovernmental agreements between Slovakia and Hungary generally concluded were empty. Maybe that's the case with Ipoly, and I wish there wasn't an empty agreement on the Hernád Bridge that we're making right now. At the same time, however, I would prefer that the agreements already concluded should not be empty. We consider the issue of Ipoly bridges to be very important in the previous agreement, all the more so, because if we consider that 359 of the 528 inhabitants of Ipolypásztó are Hungarians, 543 of the 695 inhabitants of Helemba are Hungarians and 445 of the 666 inhabitants of Ipolyvisk, then we think that it is a serious national political error and failure to settle these bridges. So the legitimate question could be whether or not there will be a bridge on Hernád. It would also be good to have an answer because there is also a time factor on the issue of " when ". In this proposal, the specific time, if I looked at it correctly, does not indicate when this bridge will stand. Obviously, I would not ask for an exact date from the Secretary of State for one day, but I would like you to reassure us about the time frame for which this bridge is about to be completed, that the objectives that my fellow Member Hörcsik has said and with which we, ourselves, are in agreement, can be met. It is not, therefore, that we are discussing government intentions, but that we want them to be implemented on this issue. The Hungarian Socialist Party therefore agrees with this agreement, but we also have to say that there are still issues with the Slovak party, which we would have liked to have been resolved in the past. The first of these is that, in the adoption of the law allowing easier naturalization procedure, which was also supported by the Socialist Group, we drew attention to the fact that it can become a very easy domestic policy issue not only in Hungarian relations, but also across the border, to facilitate localization and to acquire dual citizenship. I fear that this has been confirmed: national policy is becoming increasingly a bullet for various political revolvers, not only here in this country in the hands of the government, but unfortunately also in areas beyond the border and Slovakia. The unfortunate consequence of this is that Slovakia has adopted a counter-law, which has led to the loss of Slovak citizenship by tens of Hungarian citizens in the Highlands. The Slovak counter-reactions due to the lack of negotiations, we believe, should have been dampened, but according to our information, this issue has not been resolved in the course of the Hungarian-Slovak bilateral negotiations. To date, it has not been established exactly what the Hungarian government is thinking, what it is doing to ensure that the Hungarian people who have been deprived of their citizenship in the Highlands are reclaimed, so that they are not discriminated against, what negotiations are being held to amend the Slovak citizenship law. Obviously, this is not a matter for the Secretary of State, and I think it is important to draw attention to this because when two states sign an interstate agreement with each other, there is no way that we are not going to talk about the tensions that burden these relations. On June 30, 2014, Tibor Navracsics met the Slovak Head of State, the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister in Bratislava as the Hungarian Foreign Minister. By the way, we welcomed the fact that this meeting was held because we believe that such meetings are the ones that are able to resolve intergovernmental relations. At this joint press conference, which was held after the meeting, he explained, I quote, that "day-to-day Slovak-Hungarian relations work well. " However, it seems that this excellent operation does not allow the Hungarian Foreign Minister to talk about the Slovak-Hungarian tensions in which I believe there is consensus here in the House, that yes, we must put an end to these, and we must find reassuring answers to them. I do not want the question of the Hernád Bridge to be another such point, which we will have to find an answer to someday as to why it will not be realized. It would be important if this initiative could be implemented, because it is a very, very good initiative. In Bratislava, the representative of the Hungarian government did not mention to his Slovak colleague the disorder of dual citizenship relations, nor that although there were promises in this matter, no agreement has been reached to settle this matter to this day. Due to the lack of consultation, many people have to be proud of one of the most uplifting moments of their lives, of receiving this citizenship, which the Socialist Party otherwise supported. We therefore consider it very important that, on each issue in which the Slovak-Hungarian party is debating each other, good solutions such as this initiative should be found. The Hungarian government must represent the interests of Hungarians at all forums. This is why we do not think it good that the Hungarian Government did not speak against the fact that citizens in one of the Member States of the Union cannot rely on the constitution of their own state, because in Slovakia, it is good to know that these former citizens, current Hungarian citizens, are deprived of their rights under a law which is contrary to the constitution of their country. Nor can it be accepted that they have been informed of the loss of nationality in documents which cannot be challenged by letter, appeal or judicial action. I think that Hungarians in the Highlands, who trust in the support of the Hungarian state, should receive these gestures on these occasions. The Hungarian Foreign Minister has not expressed any concerns about the Slovak government's policy of ignoring minorities, for example, about the fact that Slovakia has not had a designated minority government commissioner for a year. These are very important cases. Obviously, these cases should not cast a shadow on the question of the Hernád Bridge, but it is obviously important to talk about these things, because Hungarian diplomacy does have a job in this area. There would also be work to be done in bilateral economic relations, despite the fact that this is a very good initiative that we support. According to our information, the construction of the road section between Košice and Miskolc has been removed from the agenda on Hungarian request and several Ipoly Bridges have been removed. My fellow Member Hörcsik is wagging his head, and I am glad that this is not the case and disproves this information, because obviously our common goal is to succeed in good initiatives for Hungarian-Slovak relations and for Hungarian people living here and for Hungarians. We consider it a huge mistake to sweep problems under the carpet just to say that, I quote, " relationships are excellent. " Viktor Orbán promised, in connection with the formation of his new government, that now, I quote, " sensitive issues may also be on the agenda in the relationship between the two countries. " However, there has been no sign of this in recent years. We could also say that everything is still the same. In the previous cycle, it was not appropriate to put on the agenda issues that obscure the relationship between the two countries, although there are many issues that affect Hungarian people extremely negatively. Orbán emphasized that a new chapter is beginning in the joint history of Hungary and Slovakia, and Slovakia and Hungary are facing successful years. He added that - quote: "The minority committees are fine. " No one has informed the Hungarian Prime Minister that the Slovak-Hungarian Joint Committee on Minorities was first held in December last year, that the participants could not reach an agreement and that the minutes of the meeting had not been signed. This shows that there is still room for Hungarian diplomacy in this area. The most memorable moment of Hungarian-Slovak relations took place at the inauguration of the Slovak house in Piliszentkereszt, a joint pálinka of the Prime Minister, which also did not give the opportunity to discuss the issue of the Hungarian looters in the Highlands. [[20.30]] We did not find out what negotiations were being held between the parties in the case of amendment of Slovak citizenship and language law to this end, either after the meeting at that time or after this meeting. So here's the thing. Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party agrees to link Hungary and Slovakia to Hernád. You agree with this initiative, and we think that what Mr Secretary and my fellow Member Hörcsik have said, these are goals that are very good when they are implemented. We would like the agreement before us not only to be blank paper, as Hungarians have no use for it either here or beyond the border. We therefore support the case of the bridge in the hope that it will happen. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-258	Thank you. I give the floor to Zsolt Egyed, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-15-259	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary is committed to the fate of Hungarians across the border, and I believe that this bridge, the bridge built on Hernádon, will certainly add a small part to the fact that the Hungarian families who are the XX. Throughout the tragic history of the century, they may live a few miles apart, but they have been broken up, unable to keep in touch, and they are once again closer to each other. My fellow Member Hörcsik said that the bridge is a symbol of EU cohesion. I would like to add that this bridge should be more of a symbol of belonging to Hungarians, because unfortunately, as I referred here to XX. To Hungarian history of the century, Hungary is perhaps the only country in the world that borders with itself, in quotes, and has not even spoken for its remedy in the last 25 years. I think, and here, not only on the issues of Abaújvár and Kenyhec, but if we go along the border, I, as a Member of North-East Hungary, could say a number of places where there are no rivers separating settlements a mile or two from each other, but it may be a very poor one- or two-kilometer journey, but if someone wants to visit their relatives and take the two-kilometer distance with a 30-40-kilometer detour, I think that the XXI. It is a bit of a shame for us and, above all, it is a shame for the Slovak Government that these problems have not been remedied. As I understand it, Mr Secretary of State has ties to Gömör, there are many such settlements where this problem is waiting for remedy. On behalf of me and the entire faction, we support the construction and establishment of this bridge, and we support any bill that facilitates the survival of Hungarians and their easy access to the mother country. I would encourage the government and the government representative to do so in many other places, because believe that there is a need for easier transport between Hungarian populated areas. So I don't want to talk about it anymore, the Jobbik will support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-260	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP.
u2014-09-15-261	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The proposal before us is a joyful and fundamentally eligible one for the LMP. Building a common bridge between Abaújvár and Kenyhec represents and achieves something that, according to LMP, is a fundamental goal in today's world. For those living there, as for those living in other border settlements, such investments mean that it is possible to go beyond historical vomit, that it is possible to combine what is naturally a part of it, namely to revive small community, local natural and cultural relationships. The fact that there is a crossing point on Hernád is a great profit, is that the inhabitants of the area can be closer to each other. The LMP supports the construction of the bridge in the hope that it will contribute to facilitating the lives of those living there. We hope that the bridge will not only be a symbol of the reconnection of torn areas, but it will also be seen in everyday life as the border area to date is once again full of life. The LMP supports any proposal that will help the inhabitants of the Carpathian Basin to live, should belong to any nationality, especially if it represents tangible help in everyday life. We believe that such investments will enable the local economy to be strengthened, that it will finally be possible for those who search and find their calculation in their local communities. However, we also expect that tourism will also benefit from investment, although more active government cooperation, cooperation and related programmes may be needed in this respect. According to the LMP, strengthening cross-border cooperation can be a tool in the European Union that can not only symbolically bring people living in the region closer together, not only create or create old cultural units, but also strengthen the autonomy of local communities in an economic sense. Abaújvár and Kenyhec, the settlements in the area and the inhabitants of the region, if the bridge is built, can therefore be confident in this sense. We would like this investment to be really about the people for whom it was planned. We would like the construction of the bridge to increase the people in the region and serve their future. Therefore, I would not comply with my obligation if, as a representative of the LMP, I did not draw attention to the fact that point 3 of the proposal before us entrusts the procurement procedure to the Hungarian party, which, knowing the practice of the past years, could give rise to concern. We would therefore like to warn the government that the construction of the bridge is aimed at local development and not at debauchery. This time, do not read between the lines anything that would suggest the need to support close-to-policy entrepreneurs. Let this bridge be a symbol and hope that it is possible for investments that are actually designed to serve those who use it, serve the bridge between Abaújvár and Kenyhec to build local communities. We will require, monitor and verify that this goal is met as Parliament, along with the votes of the LMP, provides support for the investment. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-262	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I do not see any further comments, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah.
u2014-09-15-263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I thank the parliamentary parties for their support for this proposal. On one particular point, let me have an answer, even because the honourable representative of the LMP has also mentioned it. The first public procurement took place, it was invalid, because a significant amount went beyond the plans. The next issue is on paper, which means that the start of the bridge implementation, the design, so everything that belongs to it is the task of the next narrow period, so it is very specific. If you'll excuse me, I'll stick with the presentation and the bridge. Let so many comments be made that in the case of infrastructure development, in general, but in the case of such projects between countries in particular, consistency and sometimes patience are required in addition to money. I would remind my fellow Members that it was indeed decades to wait for the Maria Valéria Bridge. I was lucky enough to be the one to hand over the bridge to the community of the two countries. We talked about it for decades, and I had to wait, for example, for me to stay on the northern borders, on the existing bridges of Ipoly, not arguing that we need more, and I am very confident that this bridge we are discussing is no longer a matter of patience, but of technical implementation. Thank you again for your support, and I very much hope that we will be able to send out invitations to the bridge during this cycle. Thank you very much. [[20.40]]
u2014-09-15-264	Thank you. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Arab Emirates will follow. The submission is T/805. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I will also give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, for the first time in this debate.
u2014-09-15-265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The priority objective of the agreement is to provide airlines with a solid legal framework for the operation of regular services, consistent with EU legislation and the agreement between the European Union and the United Arab Emirates. The agreement allows for further development of direct air connections between the two countries, and can also contribute to the development and development of economic, commercial, cultural, tourism and other links. Wizz Air is currently operating flights between Budapest and Dubai, while Emirates Airlines plans to start daily scheduled flights between the two cities from the beginning of the 2014 winter season. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/805. Support and then accept the proposed bill and make it possible to publish the agreement. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2014-09-15-266	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speeches will take place within a 15-minute time frame by group of representatives. I give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2014-09-15-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction supports the purpose of the submission, in particular with regard to the fact that the authorisation and negotiations between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Arab Emirates for the final determination of the text of the Air Transport Agreement began on 2 and 3 March 2009 at expert level. Following the negotiations, the issues remaining open to the text of the agreement were clarified in several turn correspondence, and the United Arab Emirates Ministry of Foreign Affairs finally informed our country through our Embassy in Abu-Dzab that they were ready to sign the agreement from the emirate side. I do not want to wonder who was active in this professional exchange of letters, but it makes me wonder, however, that this agreement was signed on 26 February 2014. It is now being discussed by Parliament, so, after the first expert discussions, it will be five and a half years that this aviation agreement can be fully adopted. Since we agree with the content and conclusion of the agreement, I would like to note one thing. In 2009, when these negotiations started, Malév was still there. There was a national airline, so we probably based the operation on that. The question is whether, in this case, in addition to what Mr Secretary of State said that the Emirates airline intends to conduct a daily flight, it will also have a Hungarian or Hungarian passenger operator who will complete this air transport agreement. We consider Wizz Air to be of Hungarian interest or thought on the basis of the management, whose leader was, at the time of the Fidesz government, the CEO of Malév, but if the government really means the policy of opening the East and that practical steps should be taken to do so, then I seriously add to the agenda for negotiating such an agreement that the Malév brand still exists today, it is still owned by a state-owned company. So as a brand name, there is a possibility to restart a national airline, and in these Eastern relations, we think it would be worth reconsidering that the national airline Malév, which had previously been significantly related to Hungarian transport consciousness and self-esteem, could be restarted in some form. In this sense, we support the earlier agreement which authorised the establishment of bilateral air service agreements between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and Australia, the United Arab Emirates, the Hasemita Kingdom of Jordan, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Armenia, Georgia, Azerbaijan and the Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela 33/2006. .......................................................................................................................................... - this decision has given the authority to take action in this direction. And when such agreements are accepted by the Hungarian Parliament with full consensus, let us also think that the unfortunate event recently was that Malév, the national airline, went bankrupt, and if the government decided, it would be able to benefit from broad support to restart Malév in some form. So with these thoughts, I recommend supporting the proposal. Thank you.
u2014-09-15-268	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik of Fidesz.
u2014-09-15-269	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard from the Secretary of State, the purpose of this bill is to authorise the text of the air transport agreement between the two countries to be definitively established, to obtain the authorisation necessary to recognise the binding scope of the agreement and to declare the agreement itself. There was no bilateral air transport agreement between Hungary and the United Arab Emirates before, so there was no legal support for the operation of air services between the two countries. I believe that the establishment of an agreement is very justified in order to facilitate the operation of scheduled air services between countries, which have already begun and are planned in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this agreement will provide an opportunity not only to have a low-cost direct air link between the United Arab Emirates and Hungary, which will certainly result in Emirian airlines starting direct flights, thus stimulating bilateral business economic relations, and I believe that this fits very well with the government's Eastern opening policy. Therefore, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association Group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-270	Thank you. I give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-15-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In connection with the toll order, which... [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: That's not what this is about.]] Then I'm sorry, I withdrew my intention to speak. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-272	All right, thank you. I'm asking if there's any further intention of commenting. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, the debate will be closed. The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to comment. [[20.50]] Dear Parliament, In line with the 2013 LXVII fee for motorways, motorways and main roads. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/1124. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, for the first time in this debate.
u2014-09-15-273	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, With the start of the toll payment system on 1 July last year, we introduced a different charging and control system in Hungary. Since the record-time launch, which can be considered successful in all respects, the so-called paid toll has exceeded HUF 190 billion. Vehicles exceeding the maximum authorised mass of 3,5 tonnes shall pay for the use of the road in proportion to the distance actually taken instead of the specified period. At the same time, the control system has changed. The bill submitted to this House proposes to resolve some of the issues that have been raised since then. In the sticker system, the road user is entitled to the entire network subject to charge during the period of validity, which can be effectively checked virtually anywhere. The flow of data required for checking the fee and entitlement is more static than the e-toll system. Until last summer, for truck users, this was mostly reflected in the fact that, for example, after crossing the border, they still had a few minutes to redeem their rights. The new control system, on the other hand, always examines the existence of a right of use for the road section subject to a toll. Road users should ensure that they are entitled before they start using them. You can do this by means of on-board devices or by their pre-paid destination tickets, which you can buy on the Internet, using smartphones, customer service points, posted kiosks and more than a thousand resellers located abroad. Despite raising awareness on a wide range of communication channels, it has occurred in many cases that those who are obliged to pay tolls in proportion to their use have subsequently purchased their rights. Based on the established habits, they changed the destination ticket retroactively to the already traveled sections. At the same time, the subsequent purchase clearly leads to unlawful road use which is contrary to the provisions of the Tolls Act, which have been revealed during the checks. It is important to stress that the strictness of the control system has not been achieved by self-serving checks and procedures carried out with the assistance of the police, that today some more than half of the toll revenues come from foreigners. Until last summer, this was negligible. Earlier, the Eurovignette Directive allowed a single daily ticket of EUR 11 to cross the country. The same cost exceeds EUR 100 today with a fee proportional to the journey taken. Following the introduction of a fee proportional to the journey taken, the use of parallel roads was also a problem for domestic carriers. It was not clear to them why, with the right purchased for an expressway, the main road could not be used in parallel with it, if it proved to be more favourable in order to reach its destination. There has also been a problem with the return of short journeys, such as fuel refuelling or failure to return, which the control system has always perceived as unlawful road use in accordance with the legislation. Due to the problems arising from these cases, the largest representatives of carriers have contacted the Ministry of National Development on several occasions. At the end of March, the Government decided to set up a committee to ensure fair regulation of electronic toll fines. The legislative amendment proposal was drawn up as a result of the ongoing consultations of the body formed by representatives of the specialised ministries and representatives of the transporters' representatives and aimed at resolving these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, The main point of the proposed solution is that carriers who have been fined in precisely specified cases can contact the National Toll Service Ltd., which provides a certificate for a service fee of HUF 12 thousand covering the costs of the procedure. On this basis, the police withdraw the decision imposing the fine or terminate the proceedings. On the basis of the bill, we calculate that a maximum of 2 billion unpaid toll fines and a few hundred million HUF paid fines will be required. It is important to point out that these fines were imposed on bona fide road users who paid tolls for a given journey, but only at an inappropriate time or on an inappropriate route. According to our knowledge, the penalty payable for repeated errors, up to a total of several million HUF, endangers the solvency of 100-120 domestic companies. However, these small and medium-sized enterprises could also be ruined in the payment of the accumulated fines. With the adoption of the bill, this threat is expected to be removed from above their heads. The re-production of the problem cannot be expected for a number of reasons. In recent years, road users have become accustomed to the new features of the system and have adapted their practices to the changed framework. More than 90 percent of domestic carriers already operate an on-board device excluding the possibility of false payment on their vehicles, while others are considered occasional road users. Checks also show that this one-off amnesty can be a reassuring solution to the problem. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss the bill and to support it on the basis of the reasons I have put forward. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2014-09-15-274	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by keynote speakers, within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-09-15-275	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As Mr. State Secretary said, we had to establish a regulatory system within an EU framework, which represents the Hungarian toll system for use today. Indeed, it has been developed jointly with interest organisations and we have found a sufficiently innovative Hungarian solution. Part of this is the destination ticket that allowed carriers to adapt to the system immediately without any specific investment. This partly caused the anomalies where they could fall into a mistake in good faith that, while paying the toll, they became subject to fines. The original law gave the government, the Ministry, the powers that allowed technical treatment, the development of toll-toll sections or the installation of new stages. This has also been the case since the introduction of the law, and it is working properly with interest organisations to develop practice and change technical conditions. But since we are talking about state revenues because of the fine, that is why this law came back to Parliament, and that is why we have to decide here not to impose a fine on Hungarian businesses that would make their operation impossible. [[21.00]] It is very important that we have managed to achieve that there will be a fee on the basis of road use, not on a pro rata basis, which, as Mr State Secretary mentioned, has benefited mainly foreign carriers during the previous period. With this amendment, we can achieve that indeed, who, within the 60-day deadline, announced for the previous period that he had received multiple fines for the same type of error, which is sometimes 165 thousand forints, and if the number of cases is taken into account, could have been a burden of millions, then Parliament could give the fee collector and the determining authority an authorisation to exempt businesses from this unduly heavy burden. Overall, as agreed within the working group, the proposal also has support from the transport society. I think it is not the aim of the legislator or even of the law-makers to impose excessive burdens on economic operators by way of fines, but rather to help improve operating conditions. As the Secretary of State has said, Hungarian transport companies have actually learned to apply this system, and it is spreading more and more that, with the help of the on-board unit, the fee is paid by satellite tracking, which precludes the repetition of these problems. Hopefully this will be the last time this House will have to deal with such a question. All in all, therefore, on the part of the Group, we certainly support this proposal, and we also ask this House to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-09-15-276	Thank you. I give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2014-09-15-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the MSZP fraction supports this proposal, which, as the Secretary of State said, is a simple amnesty. But I also have to add that this corrects a mistake. So in Mr Secretary of State's introduction, which he began as an uppercut that he was successful in all aspects, this proposal shows that he was not successful in all aspects. In fact, it has caused a great deal of excitement and problems, which I would like to mention when discussing this agenda. Therefore, in view of the problems encountered in the period following the introduction of a new road-related toll, it will be possible, under certain conditions, to exempt carriers from payment of penalties for unauthorised use of road during the period from 1 July 2013 to 31 March 2014. How interesting, the election was on March 31, and April 6th! In March, however, the government was able to sit down with interest representatives, who expressed their problem in a sharp voice much sooner than six months earlier. Such is the case where the road user subsequently replaced the road user's right of use after the start of road use, so, after all, he was entitled to some kind of entitlement, only not in good time. In this case, at the beginning of his journey, he did not have this right to use the road, but he later fulfilled his payment obligation. Since, in the event of a change of destination ticket, it could not do so correctly afterwards, the imposition of the fine was justified by law. The large number of such cases can be traced back to a certain previous practice, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State, where entitlement was redeemed for that period, usually after the start of road use. Due to the shortcomings of the control system, if the rights were purchased quickly enough, there is a good chance that the sanctioning could be avoided earlier, so that some practice could no longer be allowed in the system introduced on 1 July last year. Another condition of amnesty, when the road user defined his route in advance, was to pay the toll in that context, but for some reason or later he considered another route to be more favourable in the process, or because of the task he had received in the meantime, which had been taken away from the predefined route, and at that time he had no longer replaced his right to use the new route. In each case, it is important that the road user was in good faith, so he paid or paid very much for the use of the road, but due to some mistake made, the performance cannot be considered to be contractual or lawful. It should be stressed that the established system seeks to force the payment of tolls and, quite rightly, did not aim at the spread of fines. I don't want to refer to police officers who are in charge of speeding around, where another preventive exercise might be better than a guillotine. But back to the presentation, it is appropriate to grant a one-off exemption from the payment of the fine in these cases. With the bill, the government practically acknowledged that the introduction of the simplified name HU-GO took place without sufficient preparation time. So this is also contrary to a successful rating in all respects. As is well known, this was done from the tap, the electronic toll payment system failed on the first day. The vending machines froze, the satellite connection didn't work reliably, lines of several kilometres, sometimes tens of kilometers, were formed at border crossings. Unfortunately, the system froze twice already at the start, so not only the vending machines froze, but the whole system. Don't let the people in this room think that my gloat is telling us that. During the process, we pointed out in advance that, without probation, it is risky to introduce a system with such weight and burden. It is regrettable that life has justified our concerns and concerns. At the beginning, he knew that the system wasn't ready in the first place. We missed the test run, we didn't have time. The audit system has not been fully completed, the contributors have not been audited, as I said, there was no preparation time on either side. There wasn't enough on-board equipment in the country, there was no way to know where to buy a destination ticket, which tickets can be used by carriers without on-board equipment. And the foreigners received almost no meaningful information. There was also total chaos as regards the status of agricultural vehicles and tow vehicles. The MSZP had already indicated that, compared to the introduction on 1 July 2013, the regulation was significantly delayed, so that companies operating trucks of more than 3.5 tonnes could not plan their charges and without knowing the toll road sections, because the regulation did not exist, they were faced with an ex-lex situation. In view of all of this, the present bill is proposed for adoption by the MSZP and supports it, since, as has been said, a significant number of small and medium-sized enterprises in more than one hundred Member States offer significant reduction in the burden. However, it can be said the other way around, at least you said that frankly, Mr Secretary of State, these companies would fall for it if this amendment was not made now. So this is absolutely necessary. However, it is important to stress that this concession includes a partial correction of the government's earlier failure to provide adequate preparation time. Therefore, the users are not responsible for this. [[21.10]] On the other hand, the government has imposed one of the most expensive tolls on domestic carriers in Europe. So when the Secretary of State proudly reports that HUF 190 billion comes from this budget, it is important to know that that 190 billion goes on to the carriers and that the carriers will have to pass it on to the users over time, so sooner or later - we are already later, because the system has been going on for almost a year and a half - it will go on to the price of goods delivered, especially food prices. In view of the late hour, I don't even want to explain the scary story of the vargabe that Multi-Contact Consulting Kft was born here in August 2012. and Clarity Consulting Informatics and Management Ltd. This proposal was developed alongside the advice of its consortium. There was a winner, Getronics Magyarország Kft., which won a tender for approximately HUF 35 billion, and then dared not sign the contract, because there are rumors that his subcontractors, let's say, were dissuade from signing the contract. So it was so fidesz that it was prepared with bodices and encryption, as we have seen in the Paks contract, and it was finally implemented under a classified procedure under a secret procedure, and as we see here because of the need for correction, it is not flawless. So I would suggest that the government treat this with due modesty, and I would also suggest that, when transport costs increase significantly as a result of Europe's most expensive toll, the government should also consider that there is still room for reductions in fuel prices: within the margins of excise duty fixed as a minimum by the European Union, for example, the excise duty on diesel could be reduced by more than HUF 20, the excise duty on liquefied natural gas could be reduced by more than HUF 70, but also by HUF 22 for unleaded petrol. Of course, it can be said that this is not enough compared to where fuel prices have risen since 2010, because fuel prices have increased by an average of HUF 100-120 per litre; this is mainly a weakening of the forint. We also rarely talk about why the Hungarian National Bank has so much money. Well, through many, many metastases, the weakening of the forint! So there are other economic components behind this, but if the government managed to manage the introduction of a toll for use in this way, that some HUF 2 billion of fines were accumulated for companies who could not comply with it, they acted in good faith, but the law at that time did not allow them to live with correction. At least now, recognising this mistake, let the legislation give them the opportunity to be exempted from these penalties. So, in addition to these considerations, we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-278	Thank you. I give the floor to János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-09-15-279	[[No microphones.]] Mr President, In advance, I would like to point out to my fellow Members that there has been some administrative error in the previous bill. [[For signal:]] Can you hear it now? Yes, thank you very much. So I would like to inform the fellow Members that there was some administrative error in the previous bill, which is why I was presented to the lead speaker, of course that was not the case. From the second half of 2013, the government introduced a law on the fee proportional to the journey, in ordinary language, the Toll Act. At that time, the system of collection and control of fees has been thoroughly changed, the system has changed fundamentally and the effectiveness of controls has increased several times in the country, because there has been a significant excess income that was expected by the budget as a result of these measures. We feel it is very important to say that when the various detours took place, because of the departures from the designated route, the carriers and their advocacy organisations took action at the government in order not to be fined, they did not actually want anything more than to ensure that the operation of the Hungarian toll law was in line with an EU practice, i.e. they do not have to pay if, for example, for reasons of an accident, a traffic jam or other reason, they leave the motorway, they are travelling on a different route. It is understandable that their claim could and should have been appreciated, and we agree with the government that it has brought this proposal here, and that it will refund, as requested by professional organisations, the fine that has been imposed so far, and, of course, these fines will not take place in the future. Obviously, it is a question of why there is an exemption only for fines until the end of March in this case, and in the period after that, we also consider it justified to extend the exemption. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, which I have very much respected, to be kind enough to forward this question. We do not see any particular technical reason for this; there may be something, but it is not included in this proposal. It is also an important question that, if, in fact, an entrepreneur's claim that the truck had strayed from the road, let us say, because it had fallen into a huge traffic jam, an accident, a different way of making the journey, then subsequently it would be possible to charge the State with interest on late payments, as in other civil-law transactions, because of the money it used in this way, and a significant amount could be returned to businesses in this case after two billion forints. What I would like to offer the Secretary of State and the Government, as a solution, is that in the case of the various carriages of goods by road, which is famous primarily for cereals, but which affects a number of other types of goods, there are VAT frauds because there is a significant VAT difference between Hungary and neighbouring countries. Indeed, I have been talking to one of the logistics company managers recently, a contractor embezzled his shipment, and it turns out that the police are not sufficiently linked to this information system based on GPS tracking, which is otherwise considered to be working, although if we now look at how much money the former customs and financial services department, currently known as the National Tax and Customs Office, would be able to seize by preventing and detecting these VAT frauds, it can be seen that this system, optimizing and linking this system to police servers for the purpose of preventing crime, could lead the budget to advance, as it is hundreds of billions of forints that are being cheated by the same people every year, given the currently extremely high level of Hungarian VAT. These would be easy to track, as the journey of a 24-ton truck can be tracked immediately by GPS tracking: you can see what locations you go to, where you land the goods. It is reasonable that action can be taken in this case. Unfortunately, everyday experience has shown that the police simply do not have an organised relationship with the bodies operating the toll network. This is obviously an issue worth replacing for the sake of the budget and for the sake of honest businesses. It is also very important to say that the toll has been introduced in such a way that it has benefited operators of modern vehicles. This is, of course, a joyful thing in itself, but basically it can be translated from the other side by saying that, since small businesses have been excluded from the growth credit programme and from other State-funded credit programmes very often without capital, they have not been financed, so this is a really good idea for some large companies, because the small ones who operate less modern vehicles are severely punished by this legislation. [[21.20]] In order to ensure the competitiveness of the Hungarian logistics sector, it would be worth extending the growth credit programme to Hungarian companies in order to preserve the international competitiveness of road freight transport and thus bringing Hungarian companies into possession of modern means of transport. These companies can generate the money, but since there is no state guarantee behind them, and since deleveraging - one of the banks' favourite expressions, the deleveraging of capital, deleveraging, the reduction of balance sheet totals - is characteristic at EU level, but especially in Hungary, so banks do not like to lend to them. They would like to, or would be possible, if a State guarantee could be placed behind the growth loan scheme in the case of appropriate undertakings. Obviously, this step would be important to take. Another very important issue is that for intermodal modes of transport, which cover combined road, rail and water transport, it would be worth once again to favour companies who transport less than 300 kilometres on the road, whether to provide them with a full exemption from charges or a significant discount, simply because the European Union's long-term transport strategy for 2030 is also aimed at transferring to other modes of transport, as far as possible, as far as 300 kilometres are concerned. If we start to benefit from these forms of transport in this way now, I think that we would not only come closer to the European Union's objective, but also to a normal, well-defined national policy goal: do not increase the burden, damage of the road network, increase air pollution, and bring goods to the target with more environmentally friendly modes of transport. Here, I would like to point out to you, Mr State Secretary, that the Association of Hungarian Logistics Services Centres has put down serious professional material when assessing, on the basis of the portfolio they manage, what part of road traffic could be shifted to rail within a very short period of time. According to MLSZKSZ, 5 percent of the current road traffic could be shifted to rail as a surplus, which would mean an annual turnover of 8.3 million tonnes, reducing the annual costs of road maintenance by HUF 78 billion. So if the fellow Members calculate it for just one government cycle, it is an amazingly large sum, HUF 78 billion, and this was the result of a detailed calculation method in a professional study based on real calculations. What would that take? At present, it has introduced, of course, these toll-related measures, in addition to its budget hunger, because it has tried to balance the competitive disadvantage of the railway vis-à-vis the road, because at present there is no regular freight trains across the country, apart from some directional trains, because there is no predictability that a logistics company would require when designing its strategy. I know this sector well from my age as an entrepreneur, I also gained my own professional experience in this area, and I also helped to expand the Hungarian company abroad, so I also say it as a practical experience. But what is a serious problem is that the reason why goods traffic has shifted to this extent to the road in Hungary is because, let's say, in Western Europe about 10% of rail freight costs are tolls, which should be paid for the use of the track, so this is a specific item consisting of different traffic costs. In Hungary, this is not 10 percent, as in Western Europe, but 20-25 percent of the freight costs are lost by businesses because of the high rate of track use. Therefore, it is clear that the solution is not to increase the costs of road transport in the same way, with an additional burden of HUF 2 billion, where appropriate; the solution is to reduce the double, two- and a half-fold level of road access charges in the case of the railway at the otherwise Western European level, thereby achieving a clear balancing effect. We consider it very important that these measures, which we have proposed, should be heard and taken by the government. I would like to remind you here, Mr Secretary of State, that there has been an extremely serious investment in other sectors, not only in terms of strategic partnership, but also in terms of what we say the government has concluded with Waberer's, but also in terms of, for example, Baja Cort, the port of Csepel, the various intermodal transport logistics centres - we can think of BILK - have made very serious, multibillion-dollar developments, so there is a national economy basis for the government to think a little in this direction. At present, the system of allies of which we are also economically members is also thinking in this direction, which is an issue where the interests of Hungary and of the European Union are being cut together, so we would like to ask that the government also move in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-280	Thank you. I give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-09-15-281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The law, which the rapporteur now intends to amend, is an essential task, since the toll system is also a very important measure from an environmental point of view. The infrastructure, environmental and social damage of road freight transport should be covered by users, and the competitiveness of local products will increase as long-distance transport costs increase. However, the introduction of toll payments was not smooth, there was no meaningful test period, in many cases a fine was imposed on bona fide carriers, mainly due to lack of practice and lack of knowledge of the system. The complexity of the system is also involved. However, the amount of fines imposed may in some cases jeopardise the operation of transport undertakings. It is therefore appropriate to provide for the possibility to waive fines for fined but bona fide carriers, not including carriers for whom the deliberate avoidance of payment of tolls can be recognised. At the same time, it is important not to put undertakings that regularly pay the fee at a competitive disadvantage. This bill is a good example of the fact that prior social dialogue in legislation is not worth saving. If there had been normal preparation, this amendment would not be necessary now, but, given today's level of legislation, it is also a result that the professional dialogue and on this basis the amendment took place at least ex post. This amendment was made at the initiative of a professional organization, the Association of Hungarian Road Transporters. During the dialogue, the problems have become clear and there will be an ex post correction. That is why I would like to draw attention to the importance of the transport conciliation forum initiated by the National Association of Transport Trade Unions and supported by the LMP, which unfortunately left the government away, although a number of important measures determining the transport system and the interests of workers in the sector are expected in the near future. In addition, it is important to say that LMP has always supported the introduction of freight tolls, but this toll system is bad, expensive and could be a much better solution. This could have been revealed, for example, if there was regular, regular prior social consultation. It would be better to put it on a whole new foundation instead of smearing it. As we stressed at the time of the introduction, this system, which is limited to some roads, is therefore traffic-distorting, difficult to operate and faulty, is not good. [[21.30]] It would be much better to have a general system for all roads, which would mean a proportionate toll payment of trucks per km away on a GPS basis, regardless of where they went. This would also solve the problem of occasional errors, such as misdirections and penalties, immediately. There is also a flaw in the part of the system that revenue received disappears entirely in the budget. Since tolls are a principle basis for damage and cost caused by freight transport, toll revenues should be used at least in part to reduce these damage, to support more environmentally and health-friendly alternatives, to improve Community transport, to address health problems caused by air pollution and noise pollution. The LMP supports this amendment as the purpose of the amendment is to waive the penalties imposed on individual bona fide users resulting from system malfunctions. However, this issue is far from being resolved, and even if it has already started, the government should continue to consult professional and social organisations and develop an effective e-toll system that will ensure that the goals are achieved. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-09-15-282	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Cseresnyés. [[Erzsébet Schmuck takes his place as notary.]]
u2014-09-15-283	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, LXVII of 2013 on the fee for motorways, highways and main roads to be paid in proportion to the journey taken. Act adopted by the Parliament on 27 May 2013, was announced on 31 May 2013, and its entry into force on 1 July 2013 served as a widespread solution in Europe to ensure that road users cover the costs of road maintenance in proportion to the demand. Looking back over the past year, it can already be said that the new toll system introduced can be identified as a significant success following the correction of the initial minor deficiencies, which has also resulted in a significant increase in the financial resources of transport and road maintenance. This may also be a bit of an answer to the previous speech, because Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck said that the money will disappear in the budget. This money is spent precisely on road maintenance, which is why it was necessary to introduce a proportionate toll system, a proportionate toll system. So why can we say that the electronic toll collection system was successful and successful, and what does that mean in numbers? And perhaps this is also an answer to the questions raised above, which we have heard from the speeches of my fellow opposition Members. According to the data of the Transport Development Coordination Centre, stickers were sold for HUF 40.6 billion in the year preceding the government decision on the introduction of a fee collection system proportional to the journey made in spring 2012, of which HUF 25.7 billion was the total value of the tickets sold to domestic plates, and HUF 14 billion HUF 955 million was the price of stickers purchased by foreigners. This is why it was necessary to introduce the new toll system as quickly as possible. The government expected an additional revenue of HUF 150 billion from the introduction of the new toll. The figures also confirmed the expectations and confirmed that this system should be introduced as soon as possible, since, following sound planning, the toll revenue collected exceeded HUF 75 billion by mid-December 2013, and the current figures also show the expected level of revenue, as stated in Mr. State Secretary's introduction, from 1 January to 31 August this year the amount of the toll paid was HUF 106.8 billion. 40,000 customers have registered more than 142,000 vehicles in the system, more than half of which, 77 thousand trucks are already on board. In spite of the fluctuations in toll revenues during the summer months, in successive months, in part, in holidays and in production companies with significant transport needs, the revenue figures are calculated as planned. Why is it important to operate the new toll system? 54 percent of the mileage and 66 percent of the fee revenues are realised on the 1200 km expressway network. The vehicle category J4 results in 91 percent of total revenue. The traffic of foreign-owned vehicles is significant, and on the basis of this, their fee has become more verifiable, because, as I said earlier, the rates, about a third of the charges, are paid by foreign trucks, now it is equalized, about 50% of the tolls are paid by foreign trucks for tolls. The vast majority of tolls from foreign freight transport continue to come from Romania, more specifically from Romanian carriers, but also from the turnover of Polish, Slovak and Bulgarian vehicles are significant. Perhaps the reason for this change of proportion is that it is not worth it for foreign carriers to abrasion the Hungarian motorways, as it may have been worth it to them for some reason. On the basis of the paid toll, 53.8 percent of the carriers already carry out the declaration with an installed on-board measuring device, so there was a time when they got used to it and introduced the new system. The number of on-board devices registered in the toll system increases by approximately 2,000 per month. The increase in the value of declarations via on-board devices was accelerated in July, partly due to the foreigner's shift from destination ticket to on-board device. With the above data, I wanted to prove that, despite the initial difficulties, the new toll system is functioning on a large scale and works well, despite all the counter-opinions. The current bill does not mean a revision of the new toll concept, but proposes and makes minor corrections. Let me say a few words about your bill. The proposal was justified by the fact that even when the new toll system was introduced, untrained users paid a fee, but did not always do so in accordance with the rules, late or on the basis of a specific statement. The bona fide carriers have replaced their privileges subsequently, but not more than 8 hours after detection of use, or have moved from the predefined route to a functionally parallel and, where appropriate, cheaper stage. The repeated wrong payment may have led to the imposition of a fine of up to 165 thousand forints on occasion. Although the problem concerns a small group of carriers, it is estimated, as has been said, that a significant part of 100 to 120 companies could be destroyed by the payment of the accumulated fine without interference. Without prejudice to the public interest, Parliament can now lay down transitional arrangements in such a way as to ensure that those who exercise the law will not be put at a competitive disadvantage against those who do not pay the fee. It is therefore proposed that a person who has infringed the above provision between 1 July 2013 and 31 March 2014 may submit an application to the National Toll Payment Ltd. and may be exempted from the fine on this basis. The conditions for applying are as follows. The destination ticket for the unauthorized use of the road is NÚSZ Zrt. was paid within 8 hours of detection. The entitlement thus redeemed has not been validated on any other occasion and the applicant shall declare this in a complete and conclusive private document. The fine was carried out on a semi-road road which is part of a main road which has a common node with the motorway and the person fined on the motorway of which the node was part, has or has been entitled. The fine was imposed either on a tolled section of the road or on the road leading there which is functionally parallel to the road which the vehicle concerned had the right to use at the same time and did not replace the right to use the road during its period of validity. [[21.40]] This applies if it has taken place within the period of validity of the destination ticket, at a given point of inspection, not more than one time per direction. Prior to the submission of the application, the service fee shall be paid per fine. Prior to the submission of the application, the applicant shall take the route on which he was entitled to use the road... - and the toll difference between the tolls on the route actually used has been paid and justified. The application shall be submitted within 60 days, after which the certificate shall be issued by the toll collector within 120 days. On the basis of the above, I believe that, without prejudice to the public interest, Parliament, acting fairly against those who pay tolls in good faith but who are not fully aware of the legislation, can exercise virtually amnesty in the light of the fact that the 2013 LXVII. As of the entry into force of Law, i.e. as of 1 July 2013, those who have already demonstrated compliance will not be put at a competitive disadvantage against those who do not pay the fee. The proposal provides for fair regulation under Article 15/A. Paragraph 10 of the Act also extends to carriers who have already paid the fine legally imposed under the legislation in force, since the fine paid will be refunded to them. As stated in the explanatory statement of the proposal, the exemption from payment of the fine is one-off. In addition to what I said in the introduction, the practical experience of the past more than one year shows that the transport industry has already fully understood the introduction of the toll system, and that the vast majority of them have changed to a more comfortable form, since 9 out of 10 Hungarian companies are currently using on-board equipment to use the award-winning sections, only 10 percent of them still buy destination tickets. Mr President, Dear House, Based on what has been said, I suggest that you use T/1124. Legislative proposal No. 1 to adopt it in the future. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Dr. János Fónagy plays the drums. Dr. István Józsa: Quiet drumming!]]
u2014-09-15-284	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2014-09-15-285	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Much has been said about the law, and I do not want to deal with the original law now. We could talk about how good this was, how used it was, let's say, for small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, for carriers, how it had an impact on transport costs and thus on the prices of certain products. But let's talk about what this amendment is about, which we are pleased about, and, as we say, we support. I would like to note that many people use the word amnesty. But let's just say it's not about an automatic amnesty, it's not about letting go of these fines, these debts, it's about giving them an opportunity to correct bona fide misdemeanors and turn to the state, which is what we mean by that. Especially these problems that have occurred in the past period, the use of parallel roads, or short detours for any reason, tanking or anything. I'm also glad that maybe that's how legislation should work, by the way. If we make a law, and then we experience after a while that there are shortcomings in this law, there may be problems, things to be solved, then we do not insist that we make this law and then we will, but we will try to correct it, and indeed this amendment will result in this. So if we detect a mistake, let's move quickly and correct it, also helping businesses, people, where appropriate, transporters. I am also pleased that this amendment has been brought before the House, because I would like to hope that it may have contributed to this amendment by the fact that the series of questions that I addressed to the national development portfolio on this subject this spring has not been in vain. I asked for answers to the same question in writing and may have been able to draw their attention to it. So I am pleased that the problem has been noticed, and this amendment gives us the opportunity to reverse the maladministration resulting from the law and to take due account of legitimate complaints. Now, however, I would like to draw your attention to another problem regarding the use of motorways. If it is indeed the case, as the author states in the reasoning of the current bill, that the fee proportional to the journey taken and the infrastructure enabling it to do so by introducing the electronic toll system, the audit capacity and its effectiveness have increased to a multiple, then it is incomprehensible to me why it is not possible to extend this to passenger cars. On the basis of efficiency, the revenue from the budget would obviously increase, but it would also benefit users of charging roads. They only have to pay what they actually do on the highway. However, as long as ordinary citizens are not able to benefit from the obligation to pay for what they really need, it can be explained that the cheapest stickers they can buy are also available for 10 days. So right now, you can buy a 10-day sticker for motorway users and car users. You obviously agree with me, my fellow members of the Government, that there is no proportionality in the system in which, for example, a ten-day entitlement for a weekend home should be changed. Or if I do, let's take an interesting example during the summer: someone from Budapest would like to go down to Lake Venice, say, on a Saturday day, then he must buy a 10-day sticker to use the M7 motorway. He won't buy a ten-day sticker, he'll go down the old 70, increasing the load on this road, making the comfort of the people who live there less comfortable. I would like to remind you that, as of January 1, 2012, you were the first to eliminate the rather popular four-day license sticker among motorway users, the price of which was HUF 1650 at that time. At present, the cheapest option is to redeem the weekly entitlement to HUF 2975, but in fact ten days, which is also necessary, as I have said, if the required section of the road is used even on one occasion. So, in any small distance, a person is obliged to buy a ten-day sticker for 2975 HUF in a passenger car on the highway. As a result of the measures, the burden of lower road sections has increased by magnitude, which, as appropriate, has greatly increased the risk of accidents, not to mention the deterioration of the comforts of people living in settlements near such lower roads, and the increase in health risks. I therefore think that it would be justified to think about making this system more fair and to come up with their proposals on this as soon as possible. We are thinking that car users could decide whether to buy a ten - day sticker or to choose the cost of using the motorways at a reasonable price. I think it would be useful for the Hungarian car society, but it would be more useful for the relief of the load that would be important to relieve the burden of lower roads anyway. I therefore recommend that you pay attention, regardless of whether we support this amendment, so that we may, if possible, take action in this term as well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-09-15-286	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedek.
u2014-09-15-287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will continue where Mr Szilágyi has left off, because if I think about this question, I also wonder why we are not giving the roads back to society at all. Why don't we give it back to the people? Why does the foreign economy have to take this away from them by creating a significantly greater road safety risk and ruining roads? Why should the vast majority of Hungarian roads be accompanied by a multitude of foreign trucks that do not help the Hungarian economy, but make our roads a simple transit country. We're talking about why you're busy, but that's not what I want to talk about. Congressman Cherry said many, many numbers. I wonder if I could have a zh written in Parliament, what numbers were said in the speech, who would pass the exam in many numbers. [[Dr. István Józsa: Me too!]] Because those are not the arguments that I care about at all. I don't want to talk about whether the mobile system is good or not, or whether the mobile system is good or not, but I want to talk about why Chinese shoes are cheaper than a martfai shoe. I want to talk about why Slovak milk is cheaper than the milk of Hungarian producers. Because these transport regulations are the ones that cause this. [[21.50]] Neither the economic risks and damage, nor the environmental damage, nor the damage caused by the roads, nor the damage caused to society, will be paid for by the mobilisation, which, with virtually hidden subsidies, the Hungarian governments continue to reinforce one after another. The Fidesz government always talks about such things, how it will strengthen the local economy, how it will strengthen local producers, how it will support local food developments, but we also see that, to date, as the real social costs of road transport do not have to be paid, there is no need to pay the extra social security costs resulting from the adverse effects on health, no need to pay the extra costs associated with the maintenance of the road, no need to pay local jobs destroyed in Hungary, and therefore these hidden subsidies continue to weaken our economy. I think we need to talk about what it's about on an agenda like this. They argue with small and medium-sized enterprises. I am in the very lucky position of sitting next to the Fidesz people in this line, and I always like to listen to them when the representatives of my fellow Members from the MSZP talk about hungry children and such, what an intriguing thing to do and all that, they always say, the mention of small and medium-sized enterprises is an intriguing thing, nothing else. Why is it necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises to benefit from this? Why isn't there a place to work? Why are they forced to work for relatively unhuman work for many nights to live in cars? Why is our economy not developing in such a way as to have decent jobs that are paid locally for the actors of society, for individuals, and why does it go in the direction that mobilization is one of the most important economic driving forces? So that's the problem. If you ask me, I will obviously support the legislation following my party's support, but I do not agree that this is a sufficient step to protect the Hungarian economy. I cannot believe that these charges are sufficient to ensure the safety of Hungarian roads, to return the roads to individuals at least on weekends, to avoid having to face the risk of trucks, to eliminate the status as transit countries, and the concept plans that Congressman Volner said would put the weight back on rail transport and freight with regulation and an appropriate charging system... - these are sympathetic solutions when these damage does not occur. Congressman Cseresnyés responded to my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck's comment on what these resources were doing. At the same time, let's face it, these resources do not go to the connecting roads of rural areas, which give birth to the vast majority of Hungarian society, the number of three and four-digit roads. All the development of an expressway network helps to operate in transit. It has already been said whether the Bishop's Lady bypass road will be built. Of course, it is a fundamental need for those living there that the traffic from Romania does not ruin the daily lives of those living there. At the same time, all those who live the natural rural life in a multitude of small settlements, where three four-digit roads come in, there is no substantial source of renovation, maintenance and development, and these resources do not contribute to this. They have not contributed for eight years until they have been MSZP governments and have not contributed in the last four years, and this is the failure that the government does in the field of road maintenance to the countryside, because all these revenues do not necessarily serve the goals that were intended to be created at the time. This expression has been repeatedly expressed as a load proportional to the journey taken. Mr Cseresnyés has also said this phrase several times, and Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned this term. It is not proportionate, there is no charge that is sufficiently proportional to the damage caused to society, and all these systems, which always offer only one pipe end solution and not prevent the problem, cannot be good. What the government is saying, and I do not like to watch what the government is doing, I like to listen to it, because they always talk so nicely about the local economy that Minister Fazekas says how he will strengthen the local economy, that he will create jobs for everyone in the country, that he will be happy to listen to, but at the same time, the mobilisation opportunities will continue to do so as long as we promote mobilisation, we will promote resource movement. We're helping you move locally produced goods somewhere. We help to bring cheap goods produced elsewhere into place, destroying Hungarian products. Your government must be a little proud of you. By way of derogation from the previous period, the share of imports of foodstuffs from the previous 8 years... - It's up from 20 percent to 37 percent now. In a country whose most important natural resource is agricultural land and would be able to fully produce the background of the food industry in the vast majority of the country and produce high-quality food, it is unacceptable that it is still only 37 percent internal food and that this condition will continue until we have properly paid for mobilisation, and we do give it inexpensive terms, and we make our country transit inexpensive terms. So I feel for every Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur with all my heart, and I think some of them are heroes, who can still keep up their business, because those who did have it after that really had to go to a gladiator school when they were young, who hasn't lost the mood for small and medium-sized enterprises in recent years. I sympathize with everything, but the solution would obviously be not to develop mobilisation opportunities, not to develop this industry, not to give hidden subsidies to this industry, but to try to restore the local economy. In agreement with the position of our lead speaker, LMP will certainly support this. At the same time, I would be happy if we didn't correct earlier mistakes with this kind of absolution, but we tried to transform our economy conceptually. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-288	Thank you. László Kiss applied for a two-minute speech from the MSZP. I give you the floor.
u2014-09-15-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I don't think I'm gonna take the two minutes, just a few thoughts. I would like, first of all, to confirm the suggestion made by Mrs Schmuck, notary Erzsébet, and also by István Józsa, my colleague. We consider it very important that, on the one hand, this proposal comes before us as a result of discussions. We believe that this is a model to be followed by the government, which is about discussions taking place involving professional organisations and drawing on the experience of previous mistakes, a proposal comes to us, corrected. I myself don't see a sign of weakness. I think that is the strength of this proposal. I think it can be seen on several occasions, of course, that the MSZP was right about these concerns, but that is not important now. The important thing is that the government corrects in many ways the errors that were involved in this. We would definitely like to support the government in this. On the other hand, it is also important in terms of coordination that transport should be seen in its complexity. I do not want to carry out long analyses, as Mr Secretary of State knows these questions very well. However, it is important that the Transport Agreement Forum has indeed been established with the participation of several trade unions. If you allow a criticism, it is my own fault that the government did not participate in this conciliation, this establishment. But I very much hope that, as we see in this proposal now, that it has been able to be a partner to trade unions and to trade unions for carriers, in other cases, they will also be talking to this Transport Conciliation Forum or other forums as partners. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-290	Thank you. I don't see any other speakers. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy State Secretary if he wishes to comment. It says yes. You have the floor.
u2014-09-15-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm holding back because I've had a lot of interesting questions. Even as an infrastructurist, and I say it quietly, like the president of the Transport Science Association, we can have very good professional debates here, and sometimes we can continue. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the parliamentary parties for their support. That is indeed the point of the proposal. I would like to ask for your support and thank you for the support that has been given here. There are some ideas that I do not want to leave in the air, because the government does not want to push the parliamentary debate down to be put forward, supported for one reason or another, and let it go. Some specific questions are why 31 March. Transport representatives requested mid-March. They asked for this date, so it became March 31st. I admire Mr Józsa's dramatic opposition wording, sometimes with a sufficiently dramatic tone, but it was far from so dramatic. [[22.00]] I'm just saying as an example, there were 300 Western-speaking people on the border, which is why we tried to prepare this. And the fact that there is 2 billion with a turnover of 190 billion, by the way, is basically a bona fide mistake, and, by the way, the tolerance that you have supported for 80-100-120 Hungarian businesses is not that this is all wrong as it was. So it wasn't that dramatic. And if you take the view that Western European countries have sometimes been lousy with the introduction of this for years, and have no less problems, then I do not think - let me say - that we should be blamed for this, together with a change in the usual system for a decade, of course there is a mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you have a driver's license, I have a driver's license, and I've been trying to get to it in my head for 54 years. We know the P.O.S., we have an exam. And we're never gonna make a mistake against the DMV, but we know? Are we good-minded? Of course we are. Are we making a mistake? We're making a mistake. Are we being punished? I'm being punished. Are we pissed off about it? Yeah. So that's why I'm saying this doesn't mean that this was introduced here with some kind of inherent shallowness. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I'm saying the same thing with the price drive. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that all inflation measurements show that neither this nor any of my fellow Members - to say that - have detected the impact of the Hungarian statistical system. This includes, of course, the fact that we collected a good half of the prize from foreigners, but the other half was 70-80 billion, which was not included in passing on the costs. I would like to say to Congressman Volner - because this is a very specific matter of VAT fraud and follow-up - that my colleagues have given me the exact number directly: 1171/2014. Government decision requested or called on the Minister for Transport to coordinate transport data recording systems for precisely such purposes. It was also mentioned in the original system, and in this House, I believe I do not need to stress this specifically, that this issue we are discussing raises a number of issues of privacy and privacy, which we knew 1.5-2-2.5 years ago, was still the subject of a number of discussions, and we need to continue to work on it. At the moment, we do not have the solution that you set out to achieve the right goals from the point of view of society, but at the same time it would comply with privacy and data protection standards, since such a system not only follows VAT frauders, but also many others. Not my professional superficiality, but please acknowledge the progress of time, that I am now not going into the ROLA and intermodal modes of transport, and this has a long history, a very important present, and we have a common hope that it will also have a future. But I think that there are experts in every faction who show the benefits and sometimes the professional and economic resistance of the transition from road-ROLA to the fixed track system from tyre wheel transport. Congresswoman's gone, but I'm telling her and everyone else, please, we haven't missed our dialogue. [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, she's up here, ma'am. I didn't see her. There was no dialogue, there was dialogue. By the way, we have been negotiating with various transport unions and forums for many years, sometimes there is a lot of movement between them, and it is not always possible to catch up with the organization because they have a very high turnover, but we also discussed this, and we usually have that. This ex-post correction is a good evidence, since it was essentially discussed with us by the interests of the carriers. Traffic has no repulsive effect, traffic has returned to previous levels everywhere. Perhaps my fellow Member has also said that the toll is a so-called strapped money, so that it will be returned to the system. I note in brackets to the Member: Chinese goods are not cheap because of the Hungarian toll system, but because, for example, there is no social security, so they are produced significantly cheaper. It's a different batch. It is also his suggestion that this HUF 2 billion has been released; let's say that it has not been paid, so the interest rate does not arise in the first place, since there has not been any money use, but at the sum of HUF 100-200 million, where there is a refund. Let's face it, though, that they violated the law, in good faith, and I hope that by the National Assembly they did, in hindsight, tolerably, but ultimately, so I do not see the basis for the interest payment, I admit. One more thing. To the best of my knowledge, carriers are not excluded from the growth credit programmes, and in fact, when replacing the euro 4, 5, i.e. with more modern cars, it was even campaigning that they could receive favourable conditions. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, thank you for the active debate on this undisputed draft, and I would like your support to be enforced in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for your patience. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-09-15-292	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. To speak after today's agenda, Mr Ander Balázs of the Jobbik Group, did he say: "Is it really worth playing the role of the native packers of the untouched jungle for the sake of some adventurous, "white'ecotourists coming to the water " safari "? " with the title " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-293	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We national radicals are free people, which is why we do not like taboos or certain taboos very much, and we do not accept that we cannot talk about these things even at the level of questioning. One of these liberal taboos is the construction of a water escape. As is the case with the Danube, so does the Drava. Keeping the river in so-called natural condition, the dark green ideas about the biosphere reserve get broad publicity. The Fidesz Secretary of State, Zoltán Illés, welcomed the fact that the hydroelectric construction plans have now been off the agenda, and the nature conservation and hunting lobby, which is in its own interest, apparently does not want to hear about the exploitation of Drava with multifunctional hydrotechnical facilities. For them, the many romantic ideas of the river's savages represent territorial development, even though for the southern part of the county, the exploitation of our landscapes would be one of the main chances of breaking out of the disadvantaged situation, since, in addition to today's processes, we are slowly reaching the state in which we were after the Turkish expulsion, namely that a large part of Somogyország is an uninhabited forest covered with inland water. [[22.10]] General economic and social development, realistic environmental considerations would require more efficient exploitation of water as a renewable energy source, and a better water management system from an agricultural point of view. This would lead directly to the implementation of the hydroelectric plans with Croatians in 1988, which would allow many new jobs to be created - from unskilled jobs to positions requiring the highest qualification - in our huge unemployment situation, and therefore also in our neighbourhood with the rapid exodus of young generations. But to do so, the lie that Drava is one of the last unspoiled European rivers left in its natural state, and now by human intervention it is inherently from the devil. Anyone who knows a little about the economic history of the region knows that this is not the case, since Dráva, including its somogyi phase, is a member of the 18th century. Since the end of the century, it has been regulated to a greater extent than the Tisza. It is precisely that the excessive regulation at that time is causing problems today, a steady deepening, which causes the drought of coastal areas, the destruction of oak forests, to continue. In the Austrian, Slovenian, Croatian section of Drava there are now two dozen power plants, which do not cause any environmental disaster, but generate electricity, create jobs and make use of the river's water in many other respects. On the other hand, how many jobs have Istova created two and a half decades ago, favored, parrot-liked ecotourism? So it's really worth playing the role of the native packers of the untouched jungle for the sake of some adventurous white ecotourists coming to the water safari? Obviously not, and you don't have to. Even if we keep the best of the best interests of nature in mind. We do not have to choose between the evil technocratic Kiskörei reservoir or Tisza Lake, famous for its wildlife, the bird preserve. You don't have to choose, because the two are one and the same. Forty years of Hungary has created the largest artificial lake, surrounded by rural, fishing and traditional holiday tourism, from which electricity is produced, which regulates the floods and ensures the better water supply of the Great Plain; around which the flora and fauna thank you very much, they are doing very well. Of course, it's hard to admit to dark greens. Just as it is difficult to explain why, if water accounts for a huge proportion of electricity produced from renewable sources, and if we have a hydropower potential covering one-eighth of domestic energy needs, then why do they look at power plant construction plans as the people accused of witchcraft or heresy in the Middle Ages. Jobbik regards nature as a treasure to be protected, but by that, we do not mean that an existing bad condition should be preserved. By building a power plant, we are not trying to destroy the habitat of the unfortunate reed moustaches, but we do say that the one who lives here [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Hungarian people have as much right to a normal life as the dams of Drava. [[The president's ringing again.]] This requires economic recovery, at least a thousand new jobs, which is why old plans should be dusted down.
u2014-09-15-294	Thank you, Congressman.
u2014-09-15-295	Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-296	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address: " Commissioner's dog? Friendly ministerial commissioners and commissioners around the Minister of Agriculture? " The title is given below. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, " The news portal of the countryside and the Alfa news page about the summer event during which everyone could experience that a good acquaintance and professional expertise are enough for a ministerial mandate. It happened that Minister Sándor Fazekas appointed Szabolcs Fazekas, Mayor of Tomaymonostora as Minister for Fisheries. According to the Ministry, Szabolcs Fazekas also holds a degree in agricultural engineering at the University of Debrecen. Szabolcs Fazekas was, by the way, one of the most important campaign staff in the spring election, also involved in the case of anthrax in Tiszafüred, at the time around the house of the candidate. There was almost no event in the region where he wouldn't have gone, he wouldn't have shown up with him, but he was also the destroyer of one of the opposition party's forums in Tiszafüred, where the enraged crowd was sent there by unknowns. By the way, this is about Szabolcs Fazekas, who, as mayor of his Tomajmonostora, drew a nice one and acquired all the local land at the National Land Fund Management Organization's tender, supplemented by 24 estates from the neighbouring town of Kunmadaras. Szabolcs Fazekas has a total of 680 hectares of land, and in September 2013 he won an additional 170 hectares of plowing at the competition of Hortobágy National Park in Abadszalók. The so-called fish trade, called the Lőrinc of Sándor Fazekas Mészáros in his village, was appalled by the fact that he did not keep the name of Commissioner Fazekas, that is to say, it was not possible to hear or read his publications at serious conferences, nor did he even hold a position in a fisheries and fisheries management professional organisation that could be recognised. And in the last ten years, in fishing and fishing forums where the cream of the profession has been turned, he has not been seen very much. However, the Ministry also organised a fast-tracking match for the new fish commissioner, as in the line of contracts concluded by the administration of the FM, Szabolcs Fazekas received HUF 4 million 847 thousand with commitment identification number Z0040810 for an indefinite period of time from 1 June 2014, in which he was responsible for the development of fish management. But he's not just the only minister of agriculture you're sure of. Sándor Fazekas, then Minister of Rural Development, commissioned from 1 January 2014 the Chairman of the General Assembly of the county of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Sándor Kovács, who is also a member of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, member of the representative body of the town previously managed by the Minister, and therefore Sándor Kovács has commissioned the task of coordinating the tasks of the National Programme for Rural Development of Lake Tisza as a ministerial agent. Sándor Kovács is regarded as the oldest weapon bearer of the local public life Sándor Fazekas, so there can be no chance of a reward post for him. It has come up with how much and why the Ministry of Agriculture spends on its agents, its Commissioners, and how the professional competences may be exposed to friendly and possibly service relations. The question also arises as to how much the Ministry likes such embarrassing friendly relations to be made public, because, in order to inform the public, a ministerial commissioner is only on his website, István Horváth is silent about the rest. The only question now is that the Minister and the Ministry, who reminiscent of my Lord Döbögyi, is silent because of the political intention or the multitude of really awkward links. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-298	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: "Health picture, Komárom-Esztergom County 2014." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-299	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have to tell you about the health situation in Komárom-Esztergom County, because the government's concept of hospital transformation has been stamped on it, unfortunately, on the health situation of our county. We all know I talked about it a lot at the time, in the form of an interpellation, about the problem of closing small hospitals and making them miserable. Because, of course, I admit that there is a concept, there is reason to have large health centers, where all kinds of care can be found in one place, close to each other, and so the relationship between the various benefits can be more vivid, and there can be more complex treatment for a person in need, only if it involves deterioration of the quality of health care in the whole county, or if sick people or people in a difficult situation and people in life-threatening situations risk their lives and health, it is no longer permissible. [[22.20]] I told you then and I'm telling you now that these two systems, the system of small hospitals and the large health care complexes, should work in parallel. If we look at the problems and we have to weigh them, then perhaps even a minor problem is that the level of care is falling. If I could give you county examples, this is the fate of our county, for example, the obstetrics department in Szőnyi hospital, which was the county's best quality obstetrics department. This was a very good example of the fact that, in the year of closure - I said this in interpellation - a lioness mother was the first parent in that hospital; when the distance between the Russian girl and Szőny was about 40-50 km, the distance between the Russian girl and Tatabánya was 15 km, yet this mother chose to give birth to her child in the hospital in Komárom. Or even consider the processes that took place at the Tata hospital. There, as early as the early '90s, hospital destruction began, in the early '90s, the various classes were gradually closed, and the small hospital, once high-quality and high-quality, providing European-quality care, was reduced to bed and medical rest. But the same thing happened to the Esztergom and the small-scale hospital. The other very big problem is risking lives. This may also result from the problem, because it does not matter how far the ambulance service must go, as long as it reaches the hospital where the person in distress can receive the proper care. It doesn't matter if you have to go 10 to 15 kilometers to the next hospital where, say, a surgical ward or a medical ward operates - in an acute case - or 50 to 60 kilometers to transport that unfortunate man until he can get the proper lifesaving intervention. The examples given and the conditions in my narrower country, my county, also show that this was an unthinkable decision at the expense of people, especially from a financial point of view. We also see that a large giga hospital has been set up in Tatabánya, now a state-owned giga hospital where doctors are forced to take extra shifts, the whole supply is almost on a conveyor belt, and care providers, doctors, nurses and health care workers can put those who are in danger without their own faults, because we often find that they are almost unconscious, in a semi-conscious state - sorry for the expression - doing their job with fatigue. That is why I am asking the government and the public to focus on this problem, to reconsider this concept, although, unfortunately, it is not possible to bring it back to the same condition as it was, because of destructive activity, but there must be some sort of remedy for the government, and there must be an opportunity for benefits to continue at the same level or even at the same level in old hospitals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-300	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr Tibor Bana, from the Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: "The reality behind the pro - government success propaganda. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-301	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the current governing parties in the opposition have stood very firmly, I add, quite rightly, against the rural ruining steps of both the Gyurcsány and the Bajnai governments. However, in recent years, we have had to experience that the second Orbán government has taken measures in the healthcare sector, based on a change of function and efficiency, which are integral to the line started by their socialist-free democrats predecessors. The government terminated obstetric gynecology and active internal medicine in my hometown, in Körmend, Celldömölk, with a single stroke of the pen, referring to a change of function and efficiency. While you are talking about safe patient care, strengthening the operation of small hospitals and keeping the interests of locals in mind, you are taking decisions that make life difficult for people in the countryside, putting Vas County at a disadvantage. I find it amazing and cynical that, after the measures mentioned above, you are making statements that unprecedented improvements are taking place in the field of health. Government MPs were supposed to stand firm for the people in 2012, then they should have used all their strength against layoffs. At that time Jobbik protested against rural destruction by any means possible. In addition to my speeches in Parliament, we organised a demonstration for the hospital in Körmend and Celldömölk, and we also collected signatures in Körmend. The people in the region were almost unanimous in their standing for the institution. In a very short period of time, 5,000 people signed the sheets, but the government, which expressed the importance of national consultation, ignored their views. The Fidesz propaganda machine is about renewable, modern hospitals and huge improvements, but the quality of health care has clearly decreased in the hospital in Körmend, which is now the site of the hospital in Szombathely. Of course, I do not dispute the forwardness of the ongoing investments, but it would be essential to restore the classes that have been eliminated, especially obstetrics and gynecology. Unfortunately, we have recently read statements in the press that are contrary to this. It is also to be welcomed that Celldömölk is building a new practice facility, but there is also a need to restore the former classes in Kemenesalya. The ambulance station there has been promised a long time, but still hasn't arrived. My city, Szentgotthárd's rescue station, needs a new ambulance, just because it's a long way from the county seat. Let's look at the issue of patient safety. How much can we talk about safe care when, for example, the Upperszölnök located in the Slovenian Rába region, which is quite far away from Körmend, about 45 minutes away, the ambulance reaches the Markusovszky Hospital in Szombathely in more than an hour? The situation is similar for certain settlements of the Guard, whether in Szombathely or in Zalaegerszeg. We also have serious problems with Celldömölk and its region. The changes and cuts in my narrower country, the small villaged Vas County, have had very serious consequences, so they should rethink the concept. Dear Parliament, People in Vas County are confident that the third Orbán government will restore the departments that have been eliminated in order to provide adequate health care and that serious improvements will be made to these rescue stations. You are constantly talking about asking for people's opinions, stressing the importance of taking into account local interests. I can only hope that in these matters they will hear the voice of the people and reevaluate their earlier decisions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-302	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, from the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda: "Thoughts for Greenpeace's Birthday. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I didn't realize what the actuality of this would be, that my good fellow Member here poisoned those who might think it would be unfortunate to supply a river with works of art that would affect its functionality, but I am particularly pleased to be able to talk about it today, because Greenpeace is 43 years old today. It was founded in Vancouver, Canada, in 1971, and from then on it has achieved results in virtually the most important environmental issues in the world. In '71, a fishing boat was rented to prevent nuclear experiments and to go with their ark to places where such things took place, and they did so successfully. ' In 75, French nuclear experiments were completely suspended,'83 already agreed that no nuclear waste would be sunk in the sea for ten years. In '86, they put in place an international ban on whaling, stopped burning hazardous waste in the North Sea in 87. To this day, there are virtually a lot of things that can be attributed to their environmental and nature conservation activities, and, by the way, please forgive me for changing the subject, unlike the title. Last Friday I had the honour of attending the 25th birthday of the Hungarian Association at the invitation of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, together with the Speaker of the Hungarian Parliament, Mr.László Kövér and the representatives of several parliamentary parties. [[22.30]] Both Greenpeace and the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors encourage me to recall the effort, the activity that many, many civilians, many people in the private sector, and many, many professionals, to talk about why the importance of environmental protection is outstanding when all of them are assembled and organized. In the history of the green movement in Hungary, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors is as decisive as some other nature conservation organizations, but at the same time the end castle system that was established and covered almost the entire territory of the country has become highly vulnerable. I regret a bit that from this end castle, there was no one in the area of Dráva who had developed the ecological senses of my fellow Member, because it would have helped a lot to avoid and prevent these debates, but in many parts of the country, county seats and small settlements, civil society organisations that had been maintaining jobs in rural areas since the beginning of the 1990s, which, unlike government propaganda, had no intention of doing any political activity but simply showed children reeds why it is good to be in the reeds and showed fish species why it is good to have a river able to operate as ecological corridors. It is this attitude-forming work, this activity that has been targeted by a number of government criticisms over the past few years. It would not even be a problem in itself if these organisations were criticized, but in fact it is part of the conscious environmental and nature conservation organisational dismantling that is, in effect, endangering the country's environmental security. And the civil background of everything that Greenpeace has represented over the past 43 years, everything that the MTVSZ has represented over the past 25 years, everything that the Hungarian Society for Bird Science and Nature Protection has represented over the past 40 years, is now at great risk. I am very, very sad to hear from my right-wing colleagues, and I realise that the problem of Hungarian health is so serious that we have to speak more and more about it within the walls of Parliament, because the government does not really want to respond to this problem with its government activities, but please accept that the state of environmental protection in Hungary and the state of environmental security is also strongly included in the category that is being reduced as far as possible as possible as possible as a stepchild of the government. And the functioning of this in the current structure of green civil society organisations is essentially at risk, as all sources of tender that would help them to function are now slowly being removed. The new source created after the National Civil Fund, which reduced the support of civil society organisations from 7.7 billion to barely one and a half billion, practically excludes any organisation on whose behalf the words " Christian " or " civil " or similar are not included and makes it impossible for all civil society organisations that do not support this interest. We have seen a boom in the green civil sector that started in'71 in the last 40 or a few years, and now in Hungary the recovery of this. I ask you to pay attention to this problem. Thank you very much.
u2014-09-15-304	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post - agenda speech: " Will they not rest until all Hungarian farming families are destroyed? ' The title is given below. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2014-09-15-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to begin by reading a cry for help after today's agenda. This was the cry we all received, I understand, because there was a long line of e-mail addresses among the recipients, but since the government refused to respond in substance during the day, I am obliged to do it again, and now I would like to read it literally, because I think that everyone should know about it. Losing livestock keepers of the Hortobágy pasture applications have declared civil disobedience from 1 September and declare that they will not hand over the pastures unduly taken from them until the following claims are met. 1. The national park shall immediately publish the review reports of the proposals. 2. The national park should state how it intends to ensure the conditions for grazing livestock if it does not require the existing quantity of livestock for two years. 3. The national park should state who will be responsible for the damage to nature in the nature conservation areas that are left without grazing. 4. The Ministry will make a statement as to what happens to thousands of animals left without pasture. Can farmers without pasture expect compensation? Let the national park also state what justified the drastic increase in previous grazing units. Kehi will immediately release the test results. Investigating authorities should provide information on ongoing criminal cases. The national park shall also state whether a recovery contract has been concluded with a suspected winner. I would like to note here in parentheses that, unfortunately, this suspicion seems increasingly to be confirmed, which is why I think it is very important that we put an end to this matter as soon as possible. The Parliament's Committee on Agriculture should immediately put the matter on the agenda and seek a solution to the impossible situation that has arisen. I will make a proposal for this at the next Committee on Agriculture, but it would be, I think, the best solution for all of us is for a pro-government politician to do so, because that would be the guarantee that this will indeed be a serious debate and a result. Losing farmers are asking for an immediate answer as to why only Fidesz farmers and not yet farmers are winners. The livelihood of families and the Hungarian agriculture are seriously threatened by the situation. Probably, from above, from the Velvet Chairs you can't see how Hungarian agriculture and the farmers in it are losing their families. If we don't get a credible answer from the wallet, we form a lawsuit, but since this rule of law system doesn't work in Hungary, the parties will turn to Brussels, which I would be extremely sorry for, because I am one of the politicians in Jobbik who do not like to expose the laundry, and we should be able to solve it at home, and the other scandals about the National Land Fund and national park applications, but it does not seem to work within the framework of home, and the examples so far show that it doesn't work, the NFA is a state in the state, and no legal remedy could be enforced against it so far, at least the number of successful court judgments already affecting the losing parties. In any case, I would like to call on the government for a number of times for this system of applications, which means applying for land under both the national park and the NFA, to consider whether this system of applications should be open to the public, so that there should be an opportunity for redress. In 2014, in the middle of Europe, I find it quite amazing that public wealth, all of our land, is being applied for by the state without a view, even for us parliamentary representatives, in a very limited way, but not for the average citizen. So these are our basic demands and the immediate revision of the proposals we have received so far. In cases where it can be established that it is indeed kissing, government has a close interest in the territories and has no other merit, only that it is friendly with a current State Secretary or Minister, and that these contracts should be terminated immediately and a fair tender issued. As a basic principle, only locally-living family farmers should be winners of these applications, and livestock farming is indeed ironed by anyone who has accepted this as a condition in the particular tender, because so far we can see that only in certain cases they are controlled and that they overlook their own. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-09-15-306	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, has also applied for a post - agenda speech entitled "World Day of Ignorance." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Excuse me, a sentence, if you'll allow me to ask that question. I am very pleased that the demonstration that took place here in front of the House under the leadership of Socialist politician Zoltán Gőgös has fallen to such a level that DK and Jobbik are now joining this direction. We believe that Hungarian soil is a common cause for all of us. [[22.40]] Back on 8 September, in order to fight against illiteracy, I wanted to ask for a voice on this issue because I think that within the walls of this House there should be a talk about the successes and the apparent, unsubstantiated knowledge of illiteracy in this country. September 8th was the World Day against illiteracy. Compared to that, the polls show that five of our children are leaving primary school without understanding what they're reading. For adults, this rate is even worse. It is a general opinion, a common belief, that the school was better before the change of regime, but this is not true in this form. Before 1990, many say that students have achieved better performance. Rózsa Hoffmann, former Secretary of State for Education, was also pleased to refer to the good traditions of the '70s and '80s. The reality is different than that. In the mid-1990s, a study involving 22 countries, called the Adult-Irritation Study, was conducted in a number of countries. Hungary, too. The result was devastating. With the exception of the adult population in Slovenia, Poland, Portugal and Chile, we have achieved a weaker result among the 22 countries than in all countries. There were many reasons for that. Especially those older people who, in the Horthy era, did not have the means to acquire basic knowledge, have made this statistics extremely worse. But it can be said now that 20 percent of children today, based on all measurements, are functional illiterate, leaving the school bench. If we are wondering what the children's ability to read is behind their weakness, we should first check how many books these families hold and whether they have their own books. The difficulty of reading, illiteracy, is very much dependent on family circumstances. But not just from the home library, but in an interesting way, even from the communication between parents and children. Of course, in kindergarten education begins. This is later linked to the school, which has a crucial role to play. Based on the international study, the mere existence of an equipped school library increases the proportion of scribes in that community by 14 percent. This is why the development of school libraries would be extremely important. The problem is very well indicated in the PISA surveys. In the fourth grade, the children show quite good results, in the sixth grade the picture is worse, and in the eighth grade it is significantly worse. It is a devastating and interesting lesson for vocational training, for example, that children's key competence in reading is worse than the eighth grade average, which is also worse than the sixth grade because of structural change schools. Unfortunately, the master plans did not improve this situation, and even worse, despite the fact that, for example, the Association of Hungarian Teachers is constantly proposing to change the system of compulsory readings, to prepare a more modern curriculum that better fits the needs of children. This will remain a written emissary. We may recall our childhood experiences when we were wrestling with Antigon in the ninth grade or, as we said, in the first grade. And if someone bothered to reread the first classics at the age of 18, he could see that he understood the text he might not have read before. Personal contact with books is also of great importance, according to these studies, the processing efficiency of the text read on e-books and on the computer is significantly weaker than that of the books. How, then, can you fight illiteracy? Teaching and learning. Not by lowering the age limit for compulsory schooling for children to 16 years, but by bringing them back to 18 years of age, with modern textbooks and the return of the culture of books. I hope the government supports this fight. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-15-308	Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also applied for a post - agenda speech: " Why do you not see or want to see what everyone sees that there are more and more hungry children? ' The title is given below. As a member of the MSZP Group, she asked for the floor. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-309	Thank you, Mr. President. It appears that the OECD, Eurostat, UNICEF, KSH and Tarki share incorrect data each year. Poverty does not seem to be increasing in Hungary, especially to the extent that the organisations listed above have shown in recent years. Why am I saying this? During the summer, I asked a written question on several occasions about the number of settlements and the number of people receiving the program in the past few years. According to Mr State Secretary's reply, 123,000 children were supported in 2014, although 140,000 children were affected years ago. This year, 1270 settlements participated in the program, and three years ago there were 1422 settlements. In 2010, 2443 municipalities received support for the feeding of children. We can also see from the data that the biggest change occurred in 2012, when the conditions that you have re-established made it significantly difficult for you to participate in the programme. Then about 350 settlements were less likely. All this change occurred at the same time when all the surveys and statistics show that the number of people living in poverty is increasing and that more and more children are being deprived. It does not seem to have encouraged the government to provide more children with summer social meals or to provide incorrect data on an ongoing basis. You claim that over the last year, the number of children who eat themselves increased by 20 percent, i.e. the number of children in the programme has increased by 635 people, who are not paid for by the budget, but by the municipality. However, he did not point out that while in 2011 there were more than 18,000 children, to whom the municipality could provide the support itself, in 2014 there were only 4 thousand. And that's about 80 percent reduction. All this change occurred despite the alleged success of municipal debt consolidation. These settlements do not seem to be in a better position yet, since they can take on much less children than they did before. Furthermore, compared to 2011, the number of doses recorded is much lower in all subsequent years. Three years ago, there was enough state aid for about 6.4 million meals, with only 6 million in 2014. Four hundred thousand meals are gone. From the summer social catering data of the last few years, we can also see that there has always been more demand than aid has been established. These were not significant differences, but the settlements did not receive all the aid they needed, while the balance of public finances was not likely to have passed at these few million forints. So I've asked these questions several times and I'm going to ask the government again: why can't you see or want to see what we see? You seem to have a unique understanding of the real situation. Why hasn't the aid been granted for all the applications received? Will public funds for summer social catering be increased next year? Would you change the regulation next year in order to make it easier for municipalities to organise meals? When is the food provided for every day of the year, for every child in need? Especially when families are getting poorer and more and more children are starving in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-09-15-310	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju also applied for a post - agenda address, which is independent: "The government's defence policy. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-311	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Now that we're on our own, at least the government left us alone tonight, so we can't enjoy their protection now. But in the last year and a half, under the word "defense," so much has been said in this house and elsewhere that it is worth wasting a few words even at this time. [[22.50]] They protected the brandy, protected the land law, protected the retailers and much more, including the Hungarian acacia, but what remained so much more in us was when they defended the reduction of the rent constantly, and the poorer a family, the worse it was with this protection, because the more burden they put on the Hungarian families. Another part is that, as a result of the government propaganda machine, they tried to make them believe that whatever the government had done for them, they had achieved a lot of results. They just fooled people. But we can list the time when the pension was protected. They protected the pension, while stealing it from three million people, taking away their pension savings, which people have collected for more than ten years, for decades. It was simply stolen, and it is also denied that it was essentially used to reduce the general government deficit, at least part of it, and most of it was simply expended. And that's how they make the propaganda for us that it's better for us. But then they also protected young people from smoking, a law that divided the tobacco market into their own buddies. As a result of this law, or perhaps rather as a model of this law, I would like to put another important trade sector in Hungary under protection, but before we get to this, given that the majority of governments have declared the tobacco product to be a state monopoly or to be subject to concessions by the 2012 law on the control of smoking by minors, on the retail trade in tobacco products, thereby limiting the turnover of tobacco products. And as the legal retail trade of tobacco products decreased significantly after the implementation of the provisions of the law, and the black market traffic increased, it caused a serious loss of excise duty and turnover tax to the budget. And now we have come to the news before the elections, here before the municipal elections, that I would like to include not only tobacco trade but also the trade in spirits in the protection of the government and to protect others from trading or accessing this consumption. Therefore, the government then did so, and he did not intend to do so. Then it's time for the government to tell the truth for once. Take steps and prove that he is not really preparing to adopt such a law, that he is not preparing to pass such legislation, that he is not negotiating with professional organisations to prepare such a law, and that the government should therefore, while previously disproved by its spokesperson, take effective measures to counterbalance these rumors. The implementation of such a plan is likely to lead to black market processes similar to that of tobacco distribution, with further significant tax revenue being deprived of the budget, but most importantly, they would lose the work of a large number of people, and thousands would once again be left on the ground as a result of the government's activities. It is therefore appropriate for the government to declare it and, in support of our proposal for a decision, to announce that it does not wish to prepare such legislation, and does not want to deal with it in the next four-year term. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and does not want to deal with this legislation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-09-15-312	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Government has indicated that it intends to reply in writing to the Member's speech. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Márta Demeter, from the MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda: "The current issues of North Atlantic cooperation. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-313	Mr President, Dear House, Euroatlantic integration was one of the three foreign policy priorities developed after the change of regime. It was clear that the primary guarantee of Hungary's security was NATO membership and that the European Union played a major role in guaranteeing wider security. In addition to NATO accession, the most important priority of Hungarian politics and action was European integration, as besides all its advantages, Hungarian foreign policy could successfully achieve the goals of neighbourhood and national policy. Hungary's accession to the European Union and NATO, confirmed by referendum, was based on a conscious choice of values, which primarily include human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human and minority rights, freedom of enterprise or the protection of cultural, religious and ethnic diversity. Along these lines, Hungary consciously assumed a role and responsibility in the community and federal system of countries with the same values. The task is now to deepen the country's integration, to fully engage, to make a substantial contribution and to ensure effective interest in both the Union and NATO. With the outbreak of the financial crisis, Hungary's unorthodox economic policy, crisis management and European specialist policy, the protection of these European values seems to be weakened. With the outbreak of the Russian-Ukrainian military conflict, due to the perceived or real benefits of economic relations with Russia, the Hungarian government, forgetting the election of Hungarian voters by referendum, has in several cases taken a stand against the common European values. In the current situation, it is the task of the Parliament to strengthen Hungary's commitment to European values, the Euroatlantic integration commitments; its membership in the value community of the European Union and NATO, and to remind the country of its commitments. As part of this, in the federal system with the community of countries with the same values, Hungary can develop cooperation and partnership with other countries in the context of common interests for mutual economic benefits. Given that Hungary's primary guarantee of military security is NATO membership, and that the European Union plays a major role in guaranteeing wider security, and that the most important framework for Hungarian policy and action is the values shared with the European Union and EU partners and NATO allies, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, cultural, religious and ethnic diversity, the MSZP presented a proposal for a resolution to the Parliament on a stand for the values of the European Union and NATO. Dear House, Today we have heard the Prime Minister's sentences on the European Union and NATO. For two reasons, these have been a great joy to me. One is that, by the way, we should have heard these sentences more often and sooner from the Prime Minister in the last four years, but I say it's better later than never. Another reason for the pleasure is that the Prime Minister has therefore read the proposal for a resolution of the MSZP on the European Union and NATO to stand up for these values. Therefore, after these sentences, it will certainly be almost binding for the Parliament's pro-government representatives to support this proposal for a resolution. We therefore expect a clear resolution from the government and Parliament on these issues, i.e. a clear choice of value. Thank you very much. [[23.00]]
u2014-09-15-314	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to the voice of the Member State. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda: "The LMP would solve the housing of young people and families with children with community rentals. " I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-09-15-315	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to talk about the problem of housing, some issues and a proposal for a solution. It is not just that more than one million people in Hungary are affected by some form of housing poverty, but in many cases the difficulty of moving to the right housing prevents young people from starting a family, continuing education or being in the labour market. Possibly Other Politics would like to break up with the unconventional and drift of the last 24 years. After the change of regime, none of the governments felt it was their task to implement a comprehensive housing policy. In addition to helping some of the beneficiary social groups to access housing, the idea was limited to long-term crisis management. The LMP would like to state that we regard housing as a fundamental human right, and we therefore assume that the right to housing must be guaranteed at a constitutional level. Both the government and the local authorities must take a much more serious responsibility than is currently the case, so that everyone can have at least a modest but safe and peaceful home. In order to achieve this, we would like to revisit the housing policy solution of LMP to the general public. You should know that in Hungary there are about 400,000 vacant flats, so no one lives in one apartment out of ten. The vast majority of these properties are privately owned, but it must also be acknowledged that there are serious problems with municipal rental management. It is true that the space of the settlements is extremely narrow in this area, because it is only 2-3 percent of the apartments that are rented by the local government, but the municipalities do not even take advantage of this narrow space of movement, many apartments are still empty, and without renovation they continue to deteriorate. These municipal properties need to be assessed, their renovation planned, and, of course, funds should be allocated to this. But in order to solve the housing problems of hundreds of thousands of people, to support the setting-up of young people or the safe and affordable housing of families with children, private housing is also necessary. Innovative public and municipal intervention is needed, which will revive the mobility of the housing market, including people and families who cannot buy a flat on their own, but cannot even pay a market rent, and who are excluded from the municipal tenements of only a few percent of the housing stock. The new Community rental scheme, which the LMP intends to implement, primarily helps young people and families with children to access housing, but can also be an important tool for managing homelessness. Community rentals in this new system are affordable because of municipal and state aid and provide security to both the tenant and the landlord through legal guarantees. Only in this way can demand and supply find each other in the housing market. Community rental schemes such as this are already widespread in the most fortunate Member States of the European Union. The implementation plan of the initiative for Hungary was recently developed by professional organisations. Their concept is supported and proposed by the LMP. The programme is truly effective on a national scale, but it can be launched even in the case of a large city. The main point of the LMP's Budapest election programme is the launch of the rent-apartment programme in Budapest. Don't think that all of this would cost enormously, as the first Orbán government did, for example, only in the early 2000s, its interest-rate subsidy programme to help the wealthier. There is no risk or crisis associated with foreign exchange loans. According to expert calculations, the housing of 10,000 families per year could be ensured from the price of half a stadium, about 5-6 billion forints. This is such a cost-effective solution, the programme's funding needs are not even burdensome at Budapest level, and its individual and social benefits are far greater than financial expenditure. Thank you for listening.
u2014-09-15-316	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The government has indicated that it intends to respond in writing to what has been said. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our speech after today's agenda, and we will resume the meeting of Parliament tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for your work. Meeting day's closed. Good night. [[Meeting ended at 11:05 p.m.]]
