u2014-05-13-0	[[It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Tibor Pogácsás and Ádám Mirkóczki will help me in leading this meeting. Dear Parliament, Independent Members Gordon Bajnai, Péter Kónya, Szabolcs Szabó and Timea Szabó informed me that the House Rule 6 of the Decision The Parliamentary Group of the Együtt-PM has been formed pursuant to Article 4 of the Együtt-PM. The group set up for the purpose of the activities of its representatives is not a political group. Dear Parliament, Today, Mr Sallai Benedek, representative of the LMP, asked for a speech before the agenda: " How big is the loss of farmers because of the government's failure? " with the title " I give the floor to Congressman Sallai.
u2014-05-13-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In my first speech to Parliament, I must draw attention to a very topical subject. All my fellow farmers working in Hungarian agriculture - and so in the benches of Fidesz - know that in most cases this week is about the submission of a single application to farmers. 15 May is the deadline when the application can be submitted for the first pillar direct payment of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, and this year makes it very, very difficult for many people to do so. Since the change of regime, it has been discussed several times why the division of undivided common ownership is necessary and justified, and why this specific form of land ownership differs from EU law. As of 15 February last year, it became impossible, for practically legal reasons, to legally announce the use of land in an undivided common ownership. The change in legislation has led to the fact that, while earlier users of agricultural land had to contribute to an undivided joint case, as of 15 February last year, owners have to contribute to the announcement of the legitimate use of agricultural land. This has already caused very, very many problems last year, and, on the basis of an MVH resolution, last year there was the facilitation that land owners or legitimate land owners could submit the application. This year, however, the MVH's position came out that a single application can only be made on the basis of a legitimate notification and that it gives farmers the right to submit a single application. In Hungary, this means thousands of hectares and thousands of owners, who are thus losing agricultural support. There may be areas where agricultural production can be profitable in intensive arable areas, but there are a lot of undivided common pannonian speckled grasslands in the country, which can only be used with extensive use, which can only be loss-making with a grazing livestock, without a support system. Yesterday, I was pleased to see how easy the law on the amendment of the parliamentary law was and how united it was that legislation which hinders our work, our lives must be changed quickly, so that nothing prevents it. The whole House was practically a partner, because the sections of the parliamentary law that affected small town mayors or heads of county assemblies - it was in everyone's interest not to interfere with this work. I ask this House and, above all, the governing parties to consider the fate of farmers who are equally hindered by legislation that has been wrongly and wrongly created, and has not taken into account the practical principle that in Hungary since 2011, since the previous cabinet promised that the legal institution of the undivided commons will be abolished as much as possible, unfortunately nothing has happened in this matter. This omission leads to the fact that by 15 May of this year, very many farmers are unable to submit this particular single application, and so many of them are losing the possibility that their farming will come to zero at all and that they might be able to take the loss. Please do not think that we are talking about some golden crowns, there are undivided common areas where a number of landmarks is of a magnitude up to a hundred hectares, and in this there can be tens or hundreds of hectares of size for each owner. These people are all losing the opportunity to use agricultural support from this year. The rule of a single application is that the deadline for the submission is 15 May and can be amended in the next month. In the event that the government party has the support to give as many people as possible access to this support, there will be an opportunity for a legislative amendment to allow a multitude of farmers to change their single application by 15 June. I think that it cannot be the goal of the governing party either to hold back first pillar agricultural support from the European Union because a legislative reference misjudges the situation of the undivided commons, and because, unfortunately, the government has not been able to keep its promise to eliminate the undivided commons. I therefore call on this House to consider, in the next period, the possibility of amending legislation that can be changed in the next month, so that many farmers can have access to the support schemes that are undivided in common ownership. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Executive Government, Mr Gyula Budai wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-05-13-3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for your comments on this issue, but I think that we have already had this debate here in Parliament quite a few times, and I think that we have already repeatedly said on this issue what are the very important measures that the government has taken to ensure that the land-based subsidies required in 2013 are paid to farmers. The problem that you have just said has also existed in 2013 and a number of measures have been taken to ensure that EU land-based subsidies are paid to farmers. The concept of legitimate land use at MVH was required by the EU audit carried out in 2009, and the EU is obliging us to make payments in respect of legitimate land use only so that the MVH can make payments. Indeed, payment of uniform land-based aid is clearly possible for legitimate land users, and indeed, as you said, the date of 15 May, which may be the deadline for submitting the aid application, is approaching. However, the land use entry shall be settled for all by 9 June 2014. The Member complained that we have done nothing on this issue in the last four years. Allow me to tell you some very important things that were born during this period. Firstly, we introduced an facilitation for undivided common-owned land, and then the legal land use of family farms was introduced on the basis of much more affordable rules. In respect of common-owned land, the customer who was not registered in the land use register for the land concerned was also a legitimate land user, but had, in the absence of an agreement on the sharing of use or a decision on the land use regime, a document certifying the land use right on 9 June. [[14.10]] However, with regard to undivided joint ownership, the division plan was not mandatory from 1 January, so the government decision also provided a much simpler option. With regard to family holdings, from 2013 onwards, the family farmer was also a legitimate land user if the land for which land use was declared was used by a member of any other family farmer or family holding, but if no use was made in this area, he was entitled to report land use. As of February 2014, the land user who submitted a request for aid for 2013 was a legitimate land user, who was able to prove its land use by any document, and even facilitated it, in so far as the document issued by the villager of the National Chamber of Agriculture was sufficient to obtain the aid. I believe that these have all made it easier for land users to obtain the aid, and that even the landlord, the landlord, was already entitled to receive the aid application on this basis. On the basis of the latest data, today NVH transferred more than one billion HUF of land-based support to 4300 customers for 2013, who have already submitted aid applications under the facilitated aid scheme. So I think that the Member is banging open doors on the issue of making the reporting of land use even simpler, even less bureaucratic. Indeed, the problems that have arisen over the past period, whether in the case of undivided common property or common property, and which have been difficult to pay for aid applications, have been simplified, much less complicated, and the legal institutions that I have listed all prove that the government is doing everything in its power to ensure that farmers have access to the aid as easily and to the greatest extent possible. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member András Aradszki, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda: "Political courage and justice. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Less than two weeks ago, Pope Francis' predecessor, St. Peter's Square, was consecrated by Pope Francis II. János Pál, the Peter visitor against whom Ali Agca, the Turkish assassin, attempted murder in the same place today 33 years ago, on 13 May, on the day when the Catholic world celebrates the Fatima appearance of Our Lady. Why was it important for certain political circles to eliminate a church leader? ANNEX II Pope John Paul, elected in 1978 as a Polish cardinal in St. Peter's chair, did not follow his predecessor's practice, and the practice of Cold War rhetoric was far from him. He came from Poland to the papal throne and failed to comply with the tacit agreement on peaceful coexistence. He was honest about the truth he believed in, the primacy of freedom and human dignity, against political, military and economic systems. The attempted murder didn't intimidate him, but his courage as a result of his faith led him to an age-changing life. His 27 - year reign permanently engraved in our history and consciousness that all humans have equal rights because we are all children of God. He made it clear that the baptized man had an obligation to participate in political life in order to achieve the common good. He encouraged us to take a courageous stand in favor of the truth and always pursue righteousness. This meant rejecting moral relativism, eliminating unfair political and economic systems, and global policy must stand in favour of good. He strongly proclaimed that all people had the right to start a family, to work, to make a decent living, to organize workers, to family life, to free religion, and to life, from conception to natural death. Ladies and gentlemen, The social teaching of Pope John Paul undoubtedly left a deep impression on both political and economic actors. His life is an example for us Christian democrats, and his teaching is inevitable for all good-willed politicians. The realizations of the essence of our faith have resulted in the creation of the fundamental law of our country, which is a Christian spirit. The government's activities over the past four years have focused on strengthening the country's economic stability, protecting families, solidarity, ensuring jobs, "work is better than aid " in a consistent way. The KDNP is ready to continue and support the path of Christian-inspired governance in the next four years, not only in our country, but also in the arena of European politics. Today is a very important day for the strength of our commitment, which we consider to be a festival of courageous sacrifice for righteousness. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Executive Government, Mr György Hölvényi wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-05-13-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, it is rare to remember such a course. On 27 April, I was made a saint. The personality of Pope John Paul and the power that flows from him still affect and really shape the worldview of many of us. " Do not be afraid. " The sentence, which carried both a spiritual and a worldview message, gave handholds to millions of believers and unbelievers. To the Christian people, he said that he was not confined to himself, that with his problems, questions, and sufferings, man was a finite being, but he had a message for the whole world, for all benevolent people the " Don't be afraid. " the rejection of the feeling of hopelessness, vulnerability and "nothing I can do, community responsibility from faith and conviction. The head of the church, which repeated the call in Poland, can safely be said to be the spiritual demise of the communist dictatorship, but it is very important that, almost immediately after the reorganization of the world, he urged to formulate answers to the challenge of globalism and the emerging consumer society. After all, as the holy pope says, at that time, but I think it is still valid today, at least for me: " The greatest disease of today is not the leprosy, nor tuberculosis, but the feeling of unwedness and rejection. " It is very important these days, unfortunately we talk a lot about Europe. In his apostolic encouragement to the Church in Europe, the former head of the church writes about this, let me quote: " The transformation process that Europe is experiencing now is primarily the task of relocating its identity. Europe, even though it already has a very diverse composition, must create a new model of unity, a community of reconciled nations that is open to other continents and participate in the ongoing globalisation process. In order to give new impetus to his own history - Europe's - he must recognize and regain with creative loyalty the fundamental values that Christianity was a key part of. " On the basis of this, we also acknowledge that Article 21 of the Treaty provides that: The answers to the challenges of the 20th century can only come from a partially reworded image of man, who is an autonomous personality, capable of community action, a person of solidarity, commitment, living by values. [[14.20]] Such a man can build the 21st century beyond the crisis. Europe of the century. In this work, too, it gives strength and strength to St. John Paul's personality and life of faith. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, also spoke before the agenda: "The result of the economic freedom struggle over the past four years. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of the previous term, Viktor Orbán stated that the main enemy is public debt, that it must be fought, and then announced the country's economic freedom fight. Now, four years later, let's look at the facts. In April 2010, the government debt was HUF 19 323 billion, today it increased by HUF 24 256 billion, or HUF 4933 billion, by 25.5 percent, and the magic ratio to GDP was 83 percent. We can't even appreciate the size of these numbers, so let me translate them into a family, as well as the reduction of the rent. Government debt per family increased by HUF 1 million over four years. You can say that, but please, you never have to pay for this. We'll never be able to pay you like this! Government debt is increasing, but at the same time we pay HUF 1200-1300 billion of interest per year. How much is this? Three subway 4s with a case-lift. That's the amount you get out of this country every year. These amounts are the reason why Hungary does not have an independent development policy, for which there is only a resource to try to achieve the objectives set by Hungary in its development. Where are we on the IMF loan? Yes, the country repaid it because in February 2013 we issued dollar-based government bonds in the United States. The problem is not that with higher interest rates, but the economic and social policy expectations that were formulated in 2008 in the IMF for the Gyurcsány government will continue to exist. Family allowance hasn't changed. Yeah, we know that family tax breaks have been introduced, restarted; very good. At the same time, the civil servants' salary base remains unchanged, the civil servant's pay table frozen, unchanged. There are serious real-value losses; a drastic reduction in the drug register. This was all imposed by the IMF in 2008 by the Gyurcsány government for credit, and they all live longer. They say that Viktor Orbán acted very hard in the European Parliament. Yes, but in what matters: the protection of the basic law, media law, retirement of judges, transfer of cases, the case of the Data Protection Commissioner, all cases which are registered in two-thirds of the law in such a way that it serves its own well-conceived interests. At the same time, I say that it was right that Viktor Orbán stood up, because our country was also under unfair attack. Our MEP, Krisztina Morvai, joined the government on this issue, and supported Hungary, because we have to solve these issues at home. A few more words about the economic freedom fight. I quote; on October 9, 2012 Viktor Orbán will make a statement when the European Commission lacks the austerity package: " Whatever we do, it is never enough. Tell me how much is missing, the Hungarian government will raise the money. " 10 May 2013: the European Commission has doubts about the 2013 budget and asks for a corrective austerity package of HUF 100-120 billion. What does Michael Varga say? " What Brussels asks of us is unfair, unjust, unnecessary, but we will do so. " Is this an economic freedom fight? Is that the economic autonomy of this country? Fidesz and the government are talking about a Europe of nations in slogans, while taking action to facilitate the construction of European united states. Let me quote President Barroso, who, when Viktor Orbán was inaugurated as Prime Minister, won the election, praised his role as follows. He said that Viktor Orbán had done a great deal to consolidate economic governance in the six months when Hungary filled the Presidency. Indeed, a six-pack of legislation and other legislation that has led to significant progress through the United States of Europe. They say so many times that Fidesz takes the wind out of Jobbik's sail. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, let me get this straight. Then really take on a real economic freedom fight, then they will undertake this fight in full. Because the fact that you now see before an election to the European Parliament how much more sympathetic the Europe of nations that Jobbik represents than your ambition for integration is for voters is for us to make this issue clear. Either tell the truth or change the last four years. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-13-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Executive Government, Mr Kristóf Szatmáry wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-05-13-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Mr Balczó, Indeed, over the past four years we have talked a lot about the country's economic situation, and don't be angry, but this comment could also be interpreted as a little late, perhaps meaningful in the campaign. And perhaps it would be a simplified response if I said that the country's economic situation and prospects were, by the way, expressed by citizens on 6 April, at least in the main directions. Yet allow me to take your perspective on the economic situation from a slightly more interesting perspective. Of course, a certain snapshot of the state of the country, as Jobbik manifests on a lot of issues, I could say with an example of an absolute negative, perhaps half full and half empty glass. What you're looking for, what you see is what you want to see, and you're trying to ride the kind of dissatisfaction that it's not everything we want it to be. Of course, we said in the campaign that Hungary has come a very long way, in a very hard way from an economic policy point of view over the past four years, but I would suggest to you and Jobbik that it is worth interpreting the negative essence of the snapshot in a little process and seeing the economy as such. Whatever economic indicators you are looking at, such as the question of the economy - and allow me to give you just one example of the economic issue - I think that Hungary has come a huge way, for example, to finance debt in a significant part from within. Not in the form of an IMF loan imposed on us by external dictators, but, for example, through domestic bond and government bond purchases, almost 30% of the country is now able to finance itself from within. I also think it is a great achievement that the Hungarian government can make a living from the market by leaving the IMF's straitjacket. But, by the way, if you talk about processes - and you might want to watch this - you can also acknowledge that whether it is to stop the increase in public debt or to deal with a major part of the foreign exchange debt problem, whether in employment, in the labour market or in the growth of the economy, it is all a trend that paints a positive picture from 2010 to 2014 and that really needs to be continued. If we are just thinking of the last data that has just been released, then the expansion of the industry by 10 percent, including the expansion of the construction industry by nearly 30 percent, the increase in retail sales by more than 8 percent and, by the way, the two-digit external trade expansion, is quite impressive. If we add that today nearly 360,000 people live from work in Hungary more than four years ago, then I think that this is the policy that must also be pursued. If we only consider that net earnings have increased by 14 percent in the last four years and their purchasing power by 7 percent, then I think that these are also important factors, even if we have not reached the level they have reached to the west of us, and what most Hungarians would like. But the way we are going is good, the way we are going, the way we have had a lot of conflicts with the European Union. And don't be angry, Mr. Congressman, I would expect a little more restraint and recognition in the debate that the Hungarian government has undertaken against the utility companies, which it has done to solve the foreign exchange loan problem, in its action against banks, or even against other large multinational companies - see trade - the Hungarian government has taken on board, see our infringement procedures with the European Union; they have all served to leave more money for the Hungarian people, whether by reducing their debts or by solving their foreign currency debt, and they are trying to increase their careers, trying to make opportunities for the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise sector, where there are also positive trends. [[14.30]] I believe and see that the policy that the Hungarian Government has done for Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people in Brussels over the past four years, along with the conflict commitments, should continue. We are on the right track, and this good course may have been reflected in the election results. I ask the Jobbik to support this policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-13-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At the same time, Mr Árpád Potápi, on behalf of Fidesz, spoke before the agenda: "István Pásztor's insult is intolerable and unacceptable. " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There was an outrageous, aggressive and outrageous event last Tuesday at Kossuth Square. István Pásztor, president of the Hungarian Federation of Vojvodina, was insulted, spit on and called a traitor. A man who spent his whole life in the service of the Hungarians and led the Hungarians of Vojvodina to success in the last Serbian parliamentary elections. The aggressive verbal and physical attack on István Pásztor is particularly outrageous and painful because, in addition to being profoundly unfair, every Hungarian with a good feeling sees this as an attack on the unity of the nation. With this act, the nearly 600,000 double citizens across the border were also spit in the face, who bravely accept their affiliation, whose ancestors sacrificed their blood for Hungary, later in the minority fate for their Hungarians. One of the attackers has already been prosecuted by the police, but the real sinners are the ones who remain silent, instigate from behind, and when asked about their responsibilities, they pretend they weren't there. Whoever organizes a protest is responsible for the appearances, responsible for the consequences of the incitement. Over the past few months, we've seen more like it on the left. The fallen left broke down hungarocell statues, kicking heads, falsifying videos, hacking into headquarters and public buildings, using poor people for his depraved political purposes. And then they washed their hands like they had nothing to do with it. Now we see the same thing on the far right. With Jobbik's leader in the European Parliament, they're gonna lead us on and piss us off, and then they're gonna pretend they weren't there. István Pásztor was almost lynched at the event of his best-ranking MEP candidate. And Krisztina Morvai continues to explain. But this time it's not enough to have a wide smile and a meaningless explanation. Krisztina Morvai must apologize and follow the leader of the Hungarians in Vojvodina. He hasn't done that to this day. As early as last week, the President of the Republic apologized for this shameful atrocities, yesterday here in Parliament also the representative of the government. However, those who prefer to beat their breasts in Hungarian did not apologise here in this House. President Vona could have followed István Pásztor in front of the public in his speech before yesterday's agenda, but he chose to be mistaken. The Jobbik didn't just miss an apology, he did much worse. The party president is silent, the party protects Krisztina Morvai [[Interviews from Jobbik, including Zoltán Balczó: We published two communications. You're lying!]] And Krisztina Morvai protects Tamás Gaudi-Nagy. Wash your hands. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes.]] Just like on the fallen left. I have to say, you're no better than the other side. Moreover, Krisztina Morvai did not even think that her fellow warrior, as she says, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, instead of apologizing for what had happened, continued to increase hatred the next day. He said that the leader of the Hungarians in Vojvodina deserved to be spit on and be glad that he got away with it because the traitors used to hang on the lamp iron. He talks about planned murder, vigilantery, while you are constantly expressing Christian feelings, your faith in God. What exactly is Jobbik's values? Krisztina Morvai continued to stand by her comrade, who had already threatened with physical aggression, and even said that he was taking her to Brussels for a good salary to advise her there. What kind of representation is Jobbik planning? How do you intend to represent the Hungarian nation, the Hungarians and the foreigners alike? Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Do you want to achieve results in Brussels with Krisztina Morvai and Tamás Gaudi-Nagy? Dear Parliament, The aggressive attack on President Shepherd is an attack on the nation's unity. We reject this extreme behavior in the same way that we rejected the incitement to Hungarians across the border in 2004. It's a shame what Jobbik has to wear, but not the country. Voters must be protected from this extreme and uncredited policy, and this will be possible on 25 May. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-05-13-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Executive Government, Mr Zsolt Németh wishes to respond.
u2014-05-13-15	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, It's outrageous and intolerable, what Tamás Gaudi-Nagy is allowed to do. Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, who is still counseling Krisztina Morvai, leader of Jobbik's list. First of all, we strongly condemn the humiliation of the human dignity of the spitting person, of the individual. I don't know if anyone's ever lived that way before when a mob has humiliated him in this form and to this extent. I think István Pásztor deserves the most clear and decisive condemnation of this, compassion and support. Secondly, as Congressman said it was important to stress, it is indeed reasonable and therefore justified to call for the political power to which this incident is close to be clearly and clearly delimited. [[Zoltán Balczó: It happened.]] and stop smearing for Krisztina Morvai and the list of Jobbik in the European Parliament. Thirdly, I would like to welcome the fact that the authorities have taken the necessary measures very quickly and firmly and have detained the persons concerned. At the same time, I think it is important to look into the legislation, and let the government examine what additional measures can be taken against such cases in the future. And indeed, just as President of the Republic thought it important to follow President István Pásztor instead of the mob, I also think it is important that both István Pásztor and those who may be deeply offended by this very rude gesture, the Hungarians from abroad, and especially the Hungarians from Vojvodina, should be followed along with the President of the Republic. And let us also make it clear and clear that the work that President István Pásztor is doing as President of the VMSZ enjoys our far-reaching support, because in the area of national integration the Hungarians of Vojvodina are at the forefront, they have claimed citizenship in the highest proportion, but the Hungarians of Vojvodina are also at the forefront in the area of autonomy. [[14.40]] After all, they have an existing cultural autonomy institutional system and are also at the forefront of a third very important activity, as regards the Hungarian-Serbian reconciliation process, the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina, headed by President István Pásztor. I think it is important that, in this situation, too, we make it clear that they are enjoying our far-reaching support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. A general debate on the draft law on the listing of the ministries of Hungary will follow in an urgent procedure until closure. A separate motion by Mr Orbán and Mr Zsolt Semjén T/106. is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that you announced a further 12 Members' accession to the bill yesterday. In the light of the urgent hearing adopted yesterday, I would remind you that the proposal to amend the bill can be tabled until the end of today's debate. The detailed discussion phase will be opened with the conclusion of the general debate. I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Justice Committee to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-17	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not promise that I will live on behalf of the authors with an unusual and particularly generous time frame for the 30-minute, some of my old fellow Members, but in any case I would like to ask the House of Representatives, Parliament, for the attention and support of the T/106. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Zsolt Semjén, President of the Christian Democratic People's Party submitted the proposal for the Hungarian Parliament's election of Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary on 14 May 2014, on the basis of the mandate given on 6 April 2014, to present President János Áder as President of Hungary. On Saturday afternoon, Prime Minister presented to Parliament a bill in which he wishes to live with one of the powers of a strong and special Prime Minister in Hungarian public law, in constitutional law, which, in addition to the sole definition of the government's personal composition, gives special powers to the current Prime Minister regarding the organisation of the government. For this reason, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, together with the President of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Zsolt Semjén, presented the bill, to which we joined with a number of fellow Members, and today we are taking part in the general and then the Commission's detailed debate. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to inform you that the Prime Minister wishes to exercise, under the bill, the right I mentioned earlier: since 1848 the Hungarian Prime Minister has had special powers on the basis of almost unbroken civil law and civil law traditions. One of the strongest prime ministers in Hungary was founded following the April 1848 laws between 1867-1918, 1920-1944 and 1945-1949, and finally in 1989-1990. It is not only the special situation that the Hungarian Prime Minister does not have the President of the Government, the Government has a President, but the Prime Minister does have a government, so the Prime Minister has a government, not only does this special situation justify this old Hungarian history, but also the way and solution of the constructive motion of distrust reminds us of the strongest German chancellor institution in all of us. In the last twenty-some years, this is an unbroken public tradition, with which the new basic law did not break, and it even confirmed on several points that it gives full authority to the number of leaders of the executive power at the moment when the Hungarian Parliament elects the Prime Minister of Hungary. The Prime Minister wishes to use this opportunity, and in this spirit he presented to Parliament his bill much shorter than the previous 24-year practice, in which he asks Parliament to lay down the structure of the government for the coming years, according to the following points. The Prime Minister, Zsolt Semjén, together with our fellow Members of Parliament, asks you to support the following provision of the proposal. The bill on the list of the ministries of Hungary consists of two parts: for the coordination task of the Hungarian Government, for the overall coordination, the Prime Minister's Office is named as the quasi-political ministry, and for the policy ministry it lists the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Human Resources, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Ministry of National Economy and the Ministry of National Development. This is a proposal which partially follows the governance structure of 2010 or the previous years and which partially breaks up the governance structure, as follows. First of all, the Hungarian tradition of public law has been unbroken since 1990 to rely on the parliamentary, constitutional and governmental traditions of '48. The composition of the government, the list of ministries - a number of the aforementioned ministries already appeared in 1848 in the first Hungarian government under the laws of April, but there is also a tradition that -- this government structure has been kept continuously in the last 150-160 years by those who controlled the country's executive power and governed the country. This tradition has been unbroken in the last 24 years, 13, 11, 10, 8 and now 9 ministries are proposed by the Prime Minister. In recent years, in 1990, the number of ministries established to manage executive power has been the largest and then steadily decreasing number or stagnant number, which, in my humble opinion, is not decisive, but many think that today's politics and social policy still has the importance of how much the ministries cost, how much the ministers cost, and many people are motivated by it. I am more motivated by how the country can be steered well, how it can be managed effectively, with the benefit of taxpayers' money, as much accountability as possible, with transparency as possible, and with respect to its aspects. In this context, I propose to you that you support the new solution, along with the traditional list of ministries and the policy sharing, which, for the first time since 1990, has organised a ministry from the Prime Minister's Office and leaves it to the Prime Minister to coordinate the general government. This is not unconventional, the Prime Minister has always had his own prime minister's working organisation in Hungarian public-law traditions, as the Prime Minister is always strong in the Hungarian constitutional law system. Of course, his work organisation, within the government, continued to carry out coordination activities, try to coordinate government work, try to recover government promises to voters and try to enforce social policy considerations - obviously -. This was also the case in 1990, when the Prime Minister's Office was first organised with an Administrative State Secretary, which was also the case between 1998 and 2002, where the Prime Minister's Office did not become a Ministry, but it was led by a Minister in the person of Stumpf István. In essence, while maintaining this structure, although the structure continued to function until 2010 with a continuous change in certain organisational units. In 2010, substantial changes were made in addition to the formal termination of the Prime Minister's Office, to narrow down the Prime Minister's working environment and to carry out another type of coordination task. This was justified by the fact that in 2010 the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association, which has a two-thirds historical majority, attempted to redefine the country's public-law establishment, to create a new basic law, a new legal system, and therefore the political, social and public-government coordination was largely carried out by the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, since the task itself and the work were essentially judicial. I warn you, and I recommend to you that between 2010 and 2014, although with great debates, the Hungarian Parliament has, in essence, recreated the public-law system of the past decades in its entirety and closed the era of system change by creating a new basic law. [[14.50]] There were two-thirds laws, a new civil code, a new criminal code, and I could list sectoral laws that re-regulate the functioning of certain parts of society and create a framework for it. This work required the work of the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice. The Prime Minister now proposes to you that, as an innovation, there should be a distinction between ministries in the previous Hungarian public-law arrangement: the policy should be developed by the previously listed ministries, while the Prime Minister's Office should give priority to the coordination of the general government. I say that the Prime Minister's Office will be primarily responsible for the coordination of the general government, because this is not an exclusion concept, so the Prime Minister's Office can naturally have a task that is of a political nature in the framework of the government's task. I believe that in general it can be said that Hungary's elected Prime Minister, elected on three occasions in the democratic relations of Hungary, will present it. We can trust that, whether the Prime Minister likes the work of the current minority of my fellow Members in Parliament, whether it pleases the present majority of my fellow Members in Parliament, we cannot dispute that, over the last 25 years, the Prime Minister has acquired considerable experience, in a manner of speaking, with regard to the management and operation of the country. I think this empowers you to propose a governance structure that, in your best opinion, is primarily for the good of the country and that this country should be well steered and that good governance should be typical of the work that the executive power is, of course, constantly doing, surrounded by great social criticisms. I believe that this is a clear, clear, non-complicated, non-complicated, non-balan-stricken, non-political-balanced government structure. Of course, the situation is easy for the Prime Minister, since he must start the next four years with a government with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate and a two-thirds parliamentary majority behind it. Obviously, the situation of those who are forced to govern coalition is different, pushing their stamp on the nature and structure of the government. Many, many topics, many policies, many good intentions have been the victims of the government structure of coalition governments over the past 24 years. We too could talk a lot, especially from agricultural colleagues, about how we suffered some of the fantastic fruits of coalition governance between 1998 and 2002. To get back to the essence of what I have to say, I therefore believe that the proposal is clear, clear and clear to all of us. In this connection, I would like to point out that the Prime Minister did not make this presentation on Saturday, after his election, and I did not ask for the urgent procedure yesterday, thanking the supporters for their vote. The Prime Minister, my fellow Member Zsolt Semjén and all of his drafts, together with me, is asking that the Parliament discuss this proposal, that the authors be honoured by my fellow Members with their opinions, even though in the last 24 years there has been a tradition that the structural and staff order of government formation has generally been viewed and criticized by opposition parties with moderate restraint. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] I'm afraid today's public relations are still far away from having such a pleasant afternoon. I would like to ask the House to adopt this law on 6 June in such a way that the Parliament will discuss the amendments, discuss them, vote on them, vote on the proposal, and allow the President of the House, with his signature, to pass the adopted law, and then give President János Áder the opportunity to announce it before 6 June. I ask this because the Prime Minister has authorised me to confirm his previously announced intention to present the new Hungarian government to the Hungarian Parliament on 6 June, in the first week of June. To take this government's oath, to take office, this law is absolutely necessary. Not to abuse their patience, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a few more points, listing the general objectives. The Government also requests authorisation in the submission, by way of derogation from previous case-law, to adopt a regulation on the internal division of tasks of the Government, using the option given by the new basic law, and, on the day of the Government's oath, to establish the government's rules of operation and statute for internal division of tasks. Therefore, for my fellow Members, who are preparing today with great vehemency to inquire about the fate of certain policies, they call to the attention of the leaders of the executive power to the responsibility of having or not having an independent ministry of a sector, as if the success of the sector itself were involved - we know this old saying, in connection with the expertise, István Csurka's late fellow Member had a special comment and sentence for all of us. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches: You can see it! Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You can see that! Defiance.]] - but I would like to point out to my fellow Members that we are not in a position, nor am I in a position to give you a reassuring and satisfactory information about the final responsibilities and powers of each wallet. The reason why I am not in this position is because, Prime Minister, obviously from his first two attempts at forming governments, he initiated a consultation far above the level of political allies. Since Monday morning, he has been in continuous negotiations with the actors of society, interest organisations, economic, social, public, public-law actors whose opinions can be decisive for the Parliament and the executive power, for the government before the government was established. That is why the Prime Minister naturally contacted his federal partner KDNP faction, but that is why he received the new and old president of the Academy of Sciences on Monday, where he was informed about the state of play of research, development, innovation, science policy, and a number of requests have been made, which will have a significant impact on the governance structure, such as the place and role of research and development or innovation. The Prime Minister was also involved in an equally important discussion on the visit of the head of the Academy of Arts, which will also have a significant impact on the functioning of the government. I refer here only to the press news published a few days ago, which relates to the operation or future of the National Cultural Fund, if any. The Prime Minister welcomed the President and Vice-President of the State Audit Office, who received substantial proposals for the functioning of the state, the government, the establishment and strengthening of control mechanisms, internal control structures. Specific issues have been mentioned, where, despite the good intentions of the government, the cooperation of social organisations, the aspects of efficiency, transparency and economic efficiency have not or have not been partly met in recent years. This was also a question that will influence the process of government formation and what will be the responsibility and responsibility of which ministry. On Monday afternoon, the Prime Minister, for the first time in the history of Hungarian Parliaments, has met ethnic advocates since 1990. We all consider it an important duty as Members of Parliament, wherever we sit in Parliament, to find and support the responsibilities, responsibilities and opportunities of ethnic advocates, and to develop a division of labour that enables nationalities to integrate into the work of either legislation or executive power. The Prime Minister had a very instructive discussion, which also had a significant influence on the distribution of government tasks, in addition to the fact that, obviously, I believe, a tradition must be established, that the government and the Prime Minister should not only be in contact with the political groups and representatives with which Parliament has the opportunity to speak, in the parliamentary elections, with representatives who have received individual or list mandates, but also with the institutions of the spokespersons and the spokespersons. In addition, the Prime Minister welcomed the President of the Curia, President of the National Court Office, and received Mr Péter Polt, Attorney General. László Trócsányi invited the Ambassador of Paris to this discussion, perhaps not by accident. The most important element of this discussion was that the transformation of justice, which was perhaps the most delicate and sensitive part of the adoption of the basic law and the process of constitutionalization, how it has evolved over the past four years, whether there is a positive change in the expectations and perceptions of society, as regards the judicial part of our work, what is the feedback on justice. The resume of this conversation, the establishment of a new, classic Ministry of Justice, is coming back in the bill that has just been tabled, but I would like to return to this with one more sentence. Today the Prime Minister welcomed the President of the Hungarian National Bank, the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the President of the Chamber of Agriculture. He also invited the leaders of the National Association of Large Families, the County-righted Cities, the Association of Municipal Local Governments, the Olympic Committee, the Medical Chamber, the Pharmacy Chamber, the Police Faculty and the Head of the Pedagogical Faculty. [[15.00]] The resume of these discussions will have a significant impact on which disciplines in which government sector, in which ministry might belong. I believe that the third Prime Minister's oath is a matter of wisdom when one hears the opinion of these social organisations about the development of a division of duties in the ministry. I would like to make a comment on the ministries. Of course, there is a debate that prevents the Ministry of Human Resources from operating, as it has followed its establishment, because there are many people in this country, regardless of party standing, who, on the basis of good intentions, believe that there is so much in this ministry that it is only at the expense of good and efficient operation, if so many topics are together. This dilemma is, of course, also a real dilemma for my fellow Members who have worked in the past, who are still working or who are part of a majority in Parliament. For reasons of fundamental importance, due to the part of domestic and European Union resources available over the next seven years that can be used for human infrastructure, we think it is particularly important that, after the greatest competitiveness advantage of this country is man himself, the community of our fellow citizens, and therefore everything related to them, whether in terms of wealth, health, education, knowledge, skills, should be coordinated in a ministry. The Prime Minister is attempting to establish a classic Ministry of Agriculture and is proposing to the House to support this. This is partly the role of agriculture in Fidesz's social policy, and partly the awareness that Hungarian governments and the Hungarian Parliament urgently and substantially need to address the sustainability of the Hungarian countryside. The Ministry of Agriculture must first and foremost answer the question of how available natural and agricultural or economic resources can be redistributed in such a way that it affects the capacity of villages and rural people to maintain their capacity to live in the future. A classic Ministry of Defence should be expected by my fellow Members who are involved in the debate on the bill. And as I have just mentioned, we consider it particularly important - I am a great supporter and supporter of my own - to establish a classic Ministry of Law, a classic Ministry of Justice, whose primary task is to implement this new judicial system, the new basic law and the new legal system associated with it, to increase its social judgment, to increase its appreciation and to clearly accept it. I believe that those who are lawyers know precisely that the birth of the new civil code was accompanied by a relatively broad professional-social consensus, and that a good part of the legal society, the interest representatives, were able to line up behind other laws, and therefore the Prime Minister and the community of the authors think it is particularly important that the Ministry of Justice be given the tasks and work of the Classical Ministry of Justice in this work. It is no coincidence that it is indeed a shift in value and interest and focus in the external and external fields, which is the expression of the bill. For the next four years, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán intends to focus on foreign economic issues, foreign economic relations. It's not a Fidesz regime change, it's a change in the world. I am thinking that the importance of bilateral relations between the Member States of the European Union is completely different in this community, the role and place of the classic Foreign Ministries is being revalued. I think it's important that XXI. In the 20th century, Hungary should have a competitive Foreign Trade Ministry, which can link Hungarian national interests and Hungarian national economic interests and make a significant contribution to our competitiveness. There are also expected changes in the role of the Ministry of National Economy, as in the Ministry of National Development. I am afraid that there will be fellow Members who will take the role of the Prime Minister's Office on the tip of their pen and in the direction of their criticism, so the essence of what they have to say will be the status and organizational change with regard to the Prime Minister's Office. It is clear here that the mandate and powers of the Prime Minister's Office will change substantially, and it will be primarily responsible for the coordination of the general government. Each ministry is of course the same, but it is clear that there are ministries with special powers, and the Prime Minister's Office must resolve the coordination of the general government with all tasks and responsibilities falling upon it. There will be specific areas - the allocation of EU funds - that will also be a special task for the Prime Minister's Office in the next period. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this proposal, to support both its points, the overall coordination, the transformation of the Prime Minister's Office for Government Coordination into a ministry, the establishment of policy ministries. I would also like you to support me in asking you to give the government the authority to determine by regulation the breakdown of tasks between individual ministries, and the responsibility of which ministry. If I may, then, as a member of the Fidesz Group who has won individual seats on some occasions, and also as a leader of the Fidesz Group, and for two years now I have mixed feelings, sometimes drifting around in the rebel camp of disgruntled people, I say to you that the Prime Minister and his authors are asking for the Parliament's consent and support in the assessment of this law, in the best of their knowledge and experience. We believe that this governance structure is suitable for the effective, practical, flexible, quick response-capable management of the country. We all need to be familiar with the idea that the 21st edition of the Treaty on European Union should be adopted by all of us. In the 20th century, we now need a completely different governance structure than it was twenty-four years ago, in 1994 or 1998. In my view, in addition to a stable majority in Parliament, stable government relations, clear and clear governance structures and rules can substantially improve and contribute to the competitiveness of this country. I call for the support of all my fellow Members in the interests of this country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, who wishes to present the position of the Executive Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-05-13-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from the opposition: Na! That's it?]]
u2014-05-13-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. I would like to inform you that, in the light of the new provisions on house rules, two-minute contributions may be made for the first time only after the speech by the lead speaker, and that only one representative per faction and the first independent Member who has applied will have the opportunity to comment. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. At present, changes of extreme scale and speed are taking place in the world, resulting in a serious economic, political and military shift in power in the world. In this situation, it is crucial how quickly and flexibly Hungary can benefit from these fundamental changes in the world. Therefore, the question that defines Hungary's long-term future and geopolitical position, which can be called a national strategy, is that Hungarian diplomacy should have the institutional, governance and approach framework necessary for its effective functioning. Because, honourable Members, Mr President, the international economic and financial crisis and the acceleration of the transformation of the global power system have brought about fundamental changes both in terms of the nature of foreign policy and its importance and function. [[15.10]] Countries that do not recognise this and are unable to renew their traditional diplomatic activities will certainly be the losers of change. However, Hungary has every potential and opportunity to be one of the winners of global economic and global policy changes, but this requires that our economic relations be put at the heart of our foreign policy, that is to say, we will be the winners of global economic and global policy changes if we are to pursue an external economic foreign policy. If we were to say the task briefly, it would be to implement a strong national interest in the new world order, and this will be the fundamental objective of the Hungarian foreign policy and foreign economic strategy in the future. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, However, this can only be done if we put the foreign economy in the focus of our foreign policy itself, if we are no longer thinking about foreign policy as a goal, but as an instrument, a tool that is responsible for active participation in the enforcement of foreign economic interests, and we can implement this strategy if our resources are available even through the cultural diplomacy toolkit. This, ladies and gentlemen, has its organisational preconditions, a single institutional system for foreign affairs and the external economy, which operates in a single governance structure, based on a single approach. In the spirit of successful national interest in the new world order, a single Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is therefore established on the basis of the content of the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the concept would be flawed, or at least incomplete, if it were to be stopped in this respect, that only the collection of functions into an institution would be decided, so there should be more to this proposal. The fact that every step and every step of the Hungarian foreign policy activity must be influenced by foreign economic objectives and the external economic approach in the future, that is to say, we will create the content of the foreign affairs and the foreign economy, and the foreign affairs apparatus will operate in the spirit of economic competitiveness and economic result-orientedness. Therefore, the success of this new foreign and external economic institutional system will be judged through the degree of acquisition of foreign markets and the degree of investment and investment attracted to Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Of course, we can't even think, just as we don't think of ourselves, that with this thought we invented Spanish wax, even in the very old days. If nothing else, it is worth recalling a letter from 1596 sent home by English Ambassador Edward Barton of Istanbul, when he informed his ruler about how the war of the Turks in Hungary will affect the profits of the English-Levante trading company and how he sees market opportunities in the current world political system. Thus, the unity of foreign economy and foreign policy does not begin now, nor is it justified by the changes in the current world economy and world policy, but, as it seems, it has worked this way centuries ago. But there is no elemental innovation either in the fact that countries with a large and strong economy have been putting the foreign economy at the heart of their foreign policy for years, decades. To say nothing else, in an earlier interview by former US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, he said that wherever I travel in the world, I can see that countries that have a large army, but which have a strong foreign economy, are not able to increase their foreign policy influence. The former US Foreign Minister is undoubtedly right, since there is no political debate in the foreign policy field that has no immediate external economic consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, However, if we look around Europe, we also see countries with a strong economy pursuing foreign policy with a focus on the external economy; this is the case in France, so is Sweden and so is the case in Slovakia - to say one of our neighbours - where the governance of foreign and external economic government areas is integrated. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's economy is an open economy, and this means that the performance of the Hungarian national economy is fundamentally determined by the performance of Hungarian exports. From this point of view, we are in a good position to look at the fact that from 2012 to 2013, we were able to increase the overall level of Hungarian exports by 6 percent, thus reaching 108.6 billion dollars. As a result of this recognition, that Hungarian export performance had a decisive influence on the performance of the Hungarian national economy, we had to make an extremely important decision in 2010, when we decided to put the structure of the Hungarian foreign economy on two feet, in two respects, on the one hand, in terms of the direction of export and, on the other hand, in terms of the range of exporters. As regards the direction of exports, ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, the proportion of Hungarian exports to the European Union exceeded 80%. However, we know that if something is very one-sided, it also causes vulnerability, and we also know that Hungarian export performance can really grow if it also takes into account markets that are growing dynamically. That is why we have decided on a strategy for Eastern opening, where we have also started to focus on the Eastern markets that produce rapid growth. We have been able to increase our exports to the European Union, to European countries outside the European Union and outside Europe in the past, in such a way that we have been able to launch a multi-legged external economic structure. Ladies and gentlemen, Our exports to the European Union increased by 5 percent last year, thus reaching $84 billion. Our exports to European countries outside the European Union increased by 9 percent last year, reaching almost $12 billion, while Hungarian exports outside Europe increased to $13 billion after a 7 percent increase. Thus, our exports outside the European Union currently account for around 23 percent. If we look at the past year from the perspective of our new external economic strategy, we can see that the Eastern opening strategy has clearly succeeded Hungary, because if we look at the priority relations, the key areas of Eastern opening, we can see that our exports to the Member States of the Independent States have increased by one tenth, so that we have been able to export 3 percent more to Russia, 14 percent to Ukraine and 34 percent to Azerbaijan. Turkey is also an important and key external trade partner, where we have been able to increase exports by 21 percent. We pay particular attention to the countries of North Africa, where the demand structure is roughly the same as the supply structure of the Hungarian market, and accordingly we were able to increase Hungarian exports by one third to Algeria, by 42 percent to Morocco, by 35 percent to Egypt, by 13 percent in South America and by 2 percent in the Western Balkans. An important pillar of the Eastern Opening Strategy is the development of our economic cooperation with China and the Far East to a strategic level. Last year we were able to increase Hungarian exports to China by 10 percent, to Korea by 29 percent and to Japan by 4 percent. The Eastern Opening Strategy has therefore clearly proved to be a successful strategy and has contributed to the fact that this year the Hungarian national economy is on a long-term growth path, and this leads to a clear conclusion that we need to continue with the Eastern Opening Strategy. Mr President, As I mentioned earlier, the Hungarian external economic structure had to be put on two legs in two respects, including from the point of view of the identity of the exporters. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises currently work around 75 percent of Hungarian employees, but only about 15-16 percent of the Hungarian national export performance is shared. We therefore needed to take measures to ensure that we do not depend on the production management decisions of such large multinational companies and that we can increase the share of the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in Hungarian exports. That is why it was decided that we would speed up the opening of sales houses and that we would have to have such representation in 25 countries by the end of this year. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In our view, the single structure of foreign, foreign and cultural diplomacy allows us to achieve our objective of achieving a third of the total Hungarian exports outside the European Union by 2018. It allows us to make use of our competitive advantage in the field of agricultural and food exports to reach a growth rate of 10 per cent per year and also allows our technological and knowledge exports to reach the target countries of 100 billion forints per year, and here we can give the main role primarily to small and medium-sized enterprises. We can also ensure that we can maintain the positive process that started in the year 2011-12 when the level of foreign capital investment in Hungary started dynamically. Now, according to the latest figures, by the end of last year, the foreign working capital stock in Hungary reached USD 109.6 billion, so we are closer to achieving our goal of becoming Europe's production centre. Ladies and gentlemen, With this single external and external strategy and institutional system, we can also achieve the position by 2018 to attract between 2500 and 3000 research and development jobs to Hungary every year, especially from outside European markets. Our fellow Member, Mr János Lázár, Secretary of State, explained in detail the proposal listing certain changes in the structure of the government. We think, Mr President, that these changes will contribute to the success and strengthening of Hungary. These decisions, which are requested here by the rapporteur, are timely, necessary and should also be supported, and we therefore ask all Members of the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal put forward by our fellow Members, Prime Minister and Zsolt Semjén. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-05-13-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Lázár honoured our opinion, he said in his expozee. We're happy about that, and I really hope that's how it's gonna be even if my opinion, our opinion, doesn't match yours. I guess I won't tell you a big secret. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz isn't just about to form a government. Although only 44.36 percent of the votes were won in the election, they still feel empowered to replace the government essentially with a pro-state administration. This new pro-state administration has only one goal: unlimited enforcement of the political and economic interests of Fidesz in Hungary. The governance structure in the proposal systematically excludes the introduction of professional proposals, ideas, consensus decision-making based on stakeholder involvement. Instead of creating the basic institutional conditions for peaceful construction and economic growth, the Orbán system perpetuates revolutionary governance, uncertainty, and a war mood in the country. As a result, Hungary's slow but secure break-off is not only in relation to the centre of the European Union, but also in relation to the surrounding countries. In addition, the past four years have proved that this structure based on top Ministries is more expensive and wasteful than any previous government structure. The structure of the government changes substantially at one point compared to 2010. The Prime Minister's Office will have its own office of ministry. However, this only change is crucial. Based on information from press communications and government circles, it is clear that all power and political decision-making powers will be concentrated at this new, strengthened Prime Minister's Office. Based on government coordination tasks, the ministries will essentially be under the political direction of the Prime Minister's Office. The management of the territorial administration and any personal decisions associated with it will also be transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Prime Minister's Office. Thus, from the central bodies to the smallest district offices, the entire administrative apparatus will be under the manual control of the Prime Minister's office. This is complemented by the right to dispose of over a thousand billion EU development resources. As a result of this unprecedented concentration of power, the Minister leading the Prime Minister's Office will be able to make all relevant personal and financing decisions in Hungary. In addition, it will be able to influence informally all decisions of government and government by placing professional and legal liability on officials of professional and administrative bodies with all its consequences, including the consequences of criminal law. Thus, through this concentration of power, Fidesz will be able to enforce its will through the Prime Minister's Office in any corner of the country. This is how pro-state administration will prevail in Hungary through the Prime Minister's Office. With this in mind, one of the main questions is: who will be the Prime Minister? I do not think it will surprise anyone if Viktor Orbán appoints János Lázár for this post. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]] It must be admitted: John Lazarus is the ideal candidate for this new position in many ways. His valuable experience as not only the Prime Minister's Secretary of State [[Interview from the benches of Fidesz: Go!]] but also the widely known and recognised problem-solving ability to carry out this function. For example, who would not remember the exemplary implementation of the tobacco market, the reorganization of the gambling market. It is clear that he alone is also capable of allocating EU and other development resources in line with expectations. This is shown by the fact that the restructuring of the development institution system was carried out despite the fact that it resulted in the suspension of EU aid. The political courage of the Secretary of State leading the Prime Minister's Office is also well demonstrated by the fact that he stands up for his ideas even if it means a very high price for the Hungarian people. This is confirmed by his debate with the Norwegian government, which could cost up to HUF 40 billion in Hungary. However, they will also do so if Fidesz does not like NGOs to lose their support. Ladies and gentlemen, If the government structure envisaged in the bill stands up according to the personal decisions outlined, Fidesz will basically make a big trade-concession from all over the country. On the other hand, the government's activities over the past four years were more likely to indicate only one ministry: the Ministry of Interior. This was, in essence, the only organisation capable of effectively implementing government decisions in practice over the past four years. The total failure of the current government structure is well demonstrated by the fact that in recent years the Ministry of Interior has been uncomfortable to organise and coordinate public employment, that water management has been transferred to the Ministry of Interior, that they want to deal with social problems through law enforcement. This spring we have come to the point that even the police have to carry out the logistical tasks of textbook provision. This shows how effectively the Ministry of Human Resources has done its work. There is no polyhistorian who is ever able to see through education, health care, social systems, culture, sport, and I have a long list of these areas. Despite obvious failures, the bill provides for the operation of the Ministry of Human Resources in unchanged form. So much for organizational operations, but if we start from the government's political agenda, then the bill should also provide for only one ministry, namely the Ministry responsible for reducing the costs. We know from Viktor Orbán himself that the government's programme is merely to continue. In his reply to a speech before yesterday's agenda, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári made this clear to us. According to this, the Continuation Programme means essentially one thing, the continuation of the reduction in overhead costs. According to the government programme, it would not be necessary to maintain a further ministry. Well, let's be clear. The government structure, set up four years ago, with few ministries, is a hoax. In fact, this structure is more expensive than any preventive and far less efficient, and in some areas it is almost inoperable. There is obviously no need for professional administrative work, but the Minister of State has also given his opinion on this in the expozee. The promises of cheaper and more effective governance in 2010 were already broken at the first moment. Even though there were fewer ministers than under socialist governments, in 2010, twice as many State Secretarys were appointed as before. [[15.30]] In addition, the number of State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys has steadily increased. From 20 State Secretarys to 46 by the end of the term, the number of Deputy State Secretarys increased by 22. We could say by spring 2014 that 187 state leaders could be counted on the basis of information provided on the government's and ministries' websites. In addition to the State Secretarys, government work was also supported by prime ministers, prime ministers, prime ministers, government commissioners and ministerial commissioners, only the latter were over 30. The government didn't limit itself in this either. The Act on Central Government Administrations and the Status of Government Members and State Secretarys authorised the Government to regulate the number of State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretarys and Government Commissioners and Ministerial Commissioners without a state leadership mandate in the ministries in a regulation. This regulation has never been drawn up in breach of the law. This could hardly have been a mere slob, because the various assignments have increased greatly, without any visible benefits. Dear Parliament, Overall, this governance structure is perfectly appropriate to enable Viktor Orbán to implement his ideas in his book on sleepless nights quickly and incontrovertibly. However, it is completely inadequate to solve existing and increasingly serious social problems. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the bill has yet another important message, at least for those who are watching Hungarian political opinion. Orbán has either been bored by the daily government work or the power relations within Fidesen have changed, but one can be read out of the bill: after the establishment of the new government, János Lázár will be Prime Minister of Hungary. [[Defiance and uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Orbán may already be preparing for a different role. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-05-13-24	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind everyone that four years ago the House was in a difficult position, because it took three laws at once to get the new government up and running. During our discussion at the time, the Constitution had to be amended, not only the list of ministries, but also the legislative and legislative provisions on the whole state structure. Reading these debates, I have come to a very strange conclusion that there have been countless criticisms; I would like to stress to Mr Bellozó that since '90 I know that no comment against a person has been made on this subject. This is such a gross violation of Parliament's customary law, and it is only a matter of talking about the list of ministries, not the judgment of current State Secretarys and their personal criticism. But I have another problem with the bellshop speech. One is the material error that we have been hearing from opposition representatives since the elections. We hear that the right, or the government alliance, did not receive 50 percent, and yet there is a two-thirds majority. We should hack the history books and see that the Horn government has 34 percent support then 54 percent of the parliamentary representation mandates. So the electoral system has not changed much, and the electoral system is not the result - and it is not the 44 percent that must be taken down; the left should lament why, after such brilliant revelations, the country has only received 19, 20 or 22 percent support. It should be noted that you were not considered a government-strong party formation in 2010, but in 2014. Dear Parliament, We have received very detailed information from the Minister of State, who, in fact, outlined the entire government structure, and from State Secretary Péter Szijjártó, who actually explained one of the most important points of the current government transformation, namely why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will in fact be more emphasised as Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. In view of this, and very strongly, Mónika Lamperth said in his speech of 17 May 2010 that it is the power of the governing forces at all times to establish the structure of the government. It seems to be a cliché, but according to the Hungarian Constitution, the Prime Minister does not have a prime minister, but the Prime Minister has a government, and given that there is no independent ministerial responsibility, the Prime Minister is responsible for all members of the government, and therefore the established practice of the Prime Minister's free formation of his government is perfectly clear and completely legitimate. With all due respect, on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group, we assure the authors of our support, and we ask that, in accordance with the consideration of these lectures, the Parliament also support the proposed bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-26	Thank you, Congressman Rubovszky. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-27	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, As the author of John Lazarus, he asked us a rather strange question. There is a bill tabled, and every Member has a duty and opportunity to vote on this bill. Of course, if you are going to vote, you would also like to give an opinion, while the rapporteur said about it that it would be best not to talk to him much, especially in some professional direction, and perhaps even indicated that István Csurka had given his opinion on professionalism at the time; he said, in particular, that professionalism was a Bolshevik trick. I am pleased that, at the time when Parliament was young, the Member had been monitoring its operation. I myself, as the Deputy Head of the MIÉP Group at that time, can say that István Csurka has often fallen into this sin because of his many professionally founded speeches. Then I will try to follow this advice in such a way that I will have a political point of view that not only professionalism dominates. What do I see as a contradiction? The Prime Minister has the constitutional power to determine the structure in which he intends to operate the government in order to carry out his task, and here, in the presentation, there is also a reference that he will define this in a regulation. So what I don't understand is why you didn't bring in legislation in the previous term, in which you would have already said that this should be defined in a regulation. In English, I would have accepted that this would not be brought to Parliament, but since you are here, I would like to express our opinion. We were in a lighter position in 2010 because there, partly because of the Ministry system with other structures, because of a transfer-acceptance procedure, it became clear what areas under which ministry name will be. Now we've got 1. The Prime Minister's Office or Prime Minister's Office, as a new Ministry, as well as the specialised ministries are listed. But in fact, we can only start from the names now, because there is no definition behind which specialty will belong. I consider, of course, that the words of János Lázár indicate that Viktor Orbán is indeed a democratic leader, since he has told us who is negotiating with everyone at the moment - the Academy of Sciences, the economic actors, the ethnic advocates - what should ultimately belong to which ministry. [[15.40]] I think that I would have welcomed this agenda if these negotiations had come to such a level that, while, of course, it was your right to determine it, the rapporteur would have already said that otherwise environmental protection would belong here, and that rural development would belong here, because there is nothing else that we can do when we make an opinion on this structure, then we partly assume which ministry belonged to it in the last four years, and we are trying to guess in one way, the changed names. Well, back to the 2010 system, there were eight new Mammoth Ministries, behind which there was also the message of how the Fidesz works economically, only eight ministers would be. I have counted two more State Secretarys than Congressman Bellozó now, so I know 48 State Secretarys. Thus, the fact that a slimming down has taken place in respect of such posts alone cannot be said. But that is not the point, the point is that it has been proven to us that the Ministry of Human Resources will carry out tasks of such weight as would have necessarily required a level of ministry. For example, I thought, in particular, that, let us say, education, culture and youth policy is worth a ministry and an independent minister on the basis of its weight. Let me draw attention to one more interesting point: "The government that is responsible for Parliament. " If, on the move, say, a secretary of state of human resources is replaced and replaced - while, on the basis of the previous twenty years, he has done more ministry work - he will never be heard by the committee responsible, because at the first hearing, perhaps the minister will show who his secretary of state will be, but the ministers of state who will effectively carry out ministerial tasks, who will be elected to office, will no longer be present to the committee. This seems to be a small thing, but it is a bit part of the parliamentary government's control function. Then let me move on to two ministries with a new name: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Jobbik has always stressed that the foreign economy needs an independent ministry, we consider it so important, obviously beyond EU relations, which must be maintained. And Jobbik never said that these bridges should be burned in any way, but we have always said the Eastern opening policy, naming also that primarily we see Russia, the former Soviet socialist republics, Turkey, as a key market partner in this area. So in itself we are pleased that this area, this task, this future direction, has been given such emphasis at least in this way, at the Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs Office address. But let me tell you what Jobbik would consider to be of primary importance in the external economy. Of course, the current secretary of state in this area visits many countries and seems more like a diplomatic tour. This is not a problem either, because sometimes good relationships form the basis for a future fruitful economic relationship, but we would like the government not primarily to look for capital capital, but to try to obtain a market as much as possible for the Hungarian economy, preferably for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. So we would be very pleased if the Minister of Foreign Affairs came home from a negotiation by initiating, say, in the region of Nyíregyháza or Kecskemét, a new canning plant, to which he gave the appropriate support and the involvement of the producers, because he managed to obtain a durable market to which the products can be delivered. So this is what we primarily expect from the development of external economic relations, while we know that a capital injection that creates work in Hungary that creates value-making work is also necessary. But in this regard, I can give the Prime Minister a negative example of his recent negotiations in Saudi Arabia, where I will quote literally how the Prime Minister did it, and he wanted to make Hungary attractive to Saudi Arabian investors. I quote: " Compared to the quality of the Hungarian workforce, it is surprisingly cheap, and the labour code is extremely flexible. " So let us translate this for those for whom it is not quite clear, although I think it is clear, it means that well-trained Hungarian workers do not have to be paid, but there is no need to fear the rules protecting their rights, so feel free to come to Hungary. This is the situation from which Jobbik would like to bring Hungary out. So, of course, we encourage the government to find the market for Hungarian products primarily in external economic relations, or even to create production units, by enabling those involved in it to create such markets. Another name change: Ministry of Rural Development. This is obviously a broad concept, and, understandably, here in rural development, there was also basically farming. Now we see that the name changes, for some reason it won't be the Ministry of Rural Development, but it will remain agriculture. Well, we consider this to be wrong, but we see in part that Fidesz has faced the fact that in the last four years the rural development strategy, which has been the decisive part of his 2010 programme, has apparently been abandoned, apparently not implemented, and has clearly and demonstrably differed from what was then defined by a truly national rural development policy marked by the name of Secretary of State József Ángyán. We have recently seen examples of this, such as the Kishantos Centre for Rural Development, which is not only a symbolic case of Fidesz facing this original idea, but also an extremely sharp manifestation of power cynicism. So we find it very sad that we do not see the place of rural development, where, along with all this, his place would be with agriculture, because the restoration of the rural population strength can finally be with these two. And, of course, if it's said that if it's development, it's development money. We're developing a country? The Prime Minister's Office, that's where the development money is. While we have now heard how important it is to place decisions on where EU funds are born to the wallets. The other day in the programme Az Este, the competent secretary of state said exactly the subject of rural development in this, now, I do not see that rural development will be chosen in Hungarian by the place where the money is distributed, not by the function. It is clear that we would like to suggest that we consider this. By the way, we are obviously looking at economic wallets through the glasses that we would consider a good program, I confess, through the glasses of the eco-social economy, and so we see that environmental protection is sinking even further. So while he deserves an independent ministry, we can't see his place now. There was a wallet here in rural development, so once again you can guess where this should be. So let me conclude once again that, of course, it is quite clear that the Prime Minister's constitutional task is to establish, where appropriate, the structure of the government on the basis of which he has undertaken his task, he believes that he is doing the best. But then we shouldn't bring it here as such an incomplete bill, which gives us the duty and the opportunity to talk about it, but it contains less information than before. So, all in all, Jobbik sees it as a failed structure created in 2010, complemented by a Prime Minister's Office with a strong concentration of power, while we do not see the location of such important areas as rural development or environmental protection as a structure that does not seem to be reassuring to us. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]] [[15.50]]
u2014-05-13-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-05-13-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The May Other as a representative of the Political Party may be surprising, but I look at the speech by President János Áder at the inaugural meeting of the Parliament on 6 May 2014 as a starting point: " When we take the advice of Ferenc Deák into consideration the future, we have to ask ourselves: under what circumstances, what opportunities will Hungarians live in this landscape in 25, 50 or 100 years' time? Because everything we do today with our waters, our lands, our air and our natural resources affects the future generations. Our children's and their children's. Born and born in the future. Sustainable development is not merely a sound slogan, but a lively, meat-cutting issue - something worth weighing wisely every day, before every decision is made. " The President of the Republic's speech, I believe, must also be a guide to governance, in particular with regard to the long-term approach that goes beyond short-term interests and the immediate need for a transition to a sustainable development path. Of course, this requires common goals, a comprehensive concept and a strategy based on social agreement. Dear Parliament, The ever-functioning institutional system conveys values to society and also reflects the values of its creator. It is clear that in the governance structure, the areas of expertise that take precedence over the governing party will rise to the rank of ministry. We are deeply concerned about the separation of agriculture and rural development and the integration of the latter into the Prime Minister's Office. The LMP has already indicated four years ago what problems will arise if key areas are merged in themselves in a single mammoth administration. In addition to monitoring and public opinion, social policy, education and health can hardly prevail in line with its true weight. There is now no independent representation of job creation, employment in the third Orbán government, which could be accepted if there was a strategy that demonstrates that there is meaningful cooperation between the institutions involved in this matter. The bill shows that environmental sustainability, but not even environmental protection, is among the areas raised to the rank of ministry. There is no sustainability and environmental protection, even though the basic law which entered into force on 1 January 2012 included a number of guarantee rules for environmental sustainability. The full text of the Fundamental Law is reflected in the principles of environmental protection, sustainable development and responsibility for future generations. The National Confession records the commitment to cultivate and protect the natural and man-made values of the Carpathian Basin and to take responsibility for our offspring, and therefore to use our material, spiritual and natural resources carefully to protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us. The basic law states that natural resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, are a common heritage of the nation, which is protected, maintained and preserved for future generations by the state and everyone. I would like to draw attention to Parliament's 18/2013. It also includes a national sustainable development framework strategy adopted by its Resolution No.3 which states that sustainability means: "A generation creating its own well-being at a given moment of time does not consume, does not exhaust its resources, but also preserves and expands them in sufficient quantity and quality for future generations. The interests of those who are not yet born, i.e. those who do not yet have the right to vote, can be protected by creating values, constitutional or other institutional barriers to their freedom of movement. They clarify the limits beyond which certain steps are not taken, they cannot do so, and to resist temptation, they put obstacles ahead of them. " In the interpretation of the framework strategy, "sustainability is a new relationship between people, societies and the natural environment, where human action is determined by value-added." The findings of the framework strategy are state-of-the-art, forward-looking and indispensable for our future. The governance structure that has come before this House is forecasting a departure from sustainable development. The situation is clearly characterised by facts. Let us look at how we stand with our commitments in the National Creed, how we cultivate and protect our natural values, how we take responsibility and how we protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us. If all humans on Earth today were to be burdened with the quality of the average Hungarian consumer, then almost two planets of Earth would be needed by mankind. So what kind of responsibility do we take for the generations that follow us if we spend the resources that we should have allocated for a year in the middle of summer? How can we protect the living conditions of future generations if we destroy the soil ten times, fifteen times faster than it would be able to renew? How much do we protect our country's natural values if our natural vegetation heritage has now shrunk to a few percent of the country's territory? Of course, we could boast about the extent to which our environmental indicators have improved, such as how well we are doing in reducing CO2 emissions. The fact of the decline is true, but this has been brought with it by the changing, mainly empty economic structure, and not by environmental awareness, i.e. institutions working for the environment. On the other hand, can we boast about the results when this emissions are very significant compared to our own ecological capacity? In 2011, the country's net emissions were the need for 12.5 million hectares of forest to absorb our own emissions, but as we know, there are only 2 million hectares. Dear Parliament, While on one side we are abounding in beautiful words and desirable goals, on the other hand there is a depressing picture of responsibility for the future generation. In this situation, the government cannot afford not to provide institutional representation of the sustainability objectives set out in the basic law in its institutional system. The structure offered in the draft law serves the highest priority of economic and capital interests. Four of the eight policy ministries - foreign economy, national economy, development and agriculture - directly serve the economy, four more are social security and none are our environmental interests. [[16.00]] Such a government structure has a very bad message for society because it has bad values, because it says that nature's assets are not important to politics. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This structure, however, humiliates not only nature but also man. Its moral content is wrong and unsuitable. Man, like nature, becomes a resource to deliver economic indicators, i.e. a means to serve the growth paradigm. However, man is not a machine, he is not a subject of economic growth, but a spiritual, spiritual, emotional and physical unity, the harmony of which cannot be established if society sees it as merely a resource for the economy. It must be acknowledged that the inhuman paradigm of today's world is simultaneously destroying human attainment and the belongings of our environment. We need a new direction and a system of institutions reflecting this. It is no longer possible to delay the perception that we are not for the economy, but the economy is for us. It is time for the emerging new institutional system to focus on the development of human character. The aim is therefore, in the new direction, a good quality of life for society, to which the economy is an instrument and the environment is an objective condition. This condition is the availability of ecological capacities, which must be avoided in the interests of our future. As the framework strategy for sustainable development rightly states, compliance with this ecological limit will require restraint, if necessary, and good governance should be achieved with standards above current political courses. Our proposal is that the institutional system should convey the right values and reflect the three pillars of sustainable development. The Ministry of Human Resources should be called the Ministry of Human Values, but not only in its name, but also in its activities. A Ministry of Independent Environmental or Natural Values shall be established to ensure environmental sustainability. In order to ensure the sustainable management of natural resources, it is proposed to introduce standards, which are independent of political courses, which intersect each sector and thus reflect the aspects of a sustainable society. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-05-13-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Attila Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr Rubovszky, You know, we think it takes a very, very bad turn for a two-thirds majority MP to be unable to bear the opposition's opinion. I have not been personal, Mr President, and I have expressed our opinion on what is currently known in this country about the governance structure for the next four years. And as a Christian Democrat politician, I'm asking you to be more reasonable, and please bear it if I have a different opinion from you. Which means objectivity: I also ask you to put this half-truth, this legend, that 'in 94 what was, once, and then stop using it. In the first round, the MSZP received 31 percent and in the second, 45 percent. In addition, he had a coalition partner who received 18 percent in the first round and 28 in the second round. Fidesz got seven percent. A total of 3.2 million people voted for these two parties. [[Dr. János Lázár: In the second round we did not vote for a list!]] My fellow Member, it was an individual mixed system. Surely you remember, Mr Lazarus, because I can see that you liked it very much, one half of which is the vote on the list, and the other half is the individual - you must remember - and the second round in the individual has been in the last twenty years, and in the second round there were 3.2 million people voting for these two parties. We would also like to ask you to respect that, even in hindsight, if you can ask for it at all. Speaking of good, I think that what the lead speaker of Fidesz said - because he was talking almost only about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade - is a strategic direction, seems to be a good idea, and we would like to see that in reality he will bring the results that he has said here in Parliament, as far as we know. And we also regard the removal of rural development from the governance structure as a very, very bad direction. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-05-13-32	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Please allow me to say that I do not think that the expression of Mr Tamás Harangozó in his speech was elegant. He wasn't elegant, because he not only insulted the faction, not only the ruling party, but he also insulted the people. Dear Congressman Belling, You were talking about government structure, people, numbers and government work. Yeah, these people and this government job won the election. People felt that, thanks to this government work, everyone on their skin felt that Hungary was performing better. That's what people decided. And, my honourable fellow Member, it was not worthy and elegant on your part because you were on the government. You had a government program, there were numbers, there were structures, there were people. And, honourable Member, part of your faction, thanks to this government work, has been in prison, is in prison, and may be in prison. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Tamás Harangozó: That was very elegant.]]
u2014-05-13-34	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Józsa, when I give the floor, it will be possible for you to explain your position. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, Next will be the further speeches by the representatives, first according to the registrations in writing and then by clicking the button. They have a timeframe of 15-15 minutes. I give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, MSZP Group. By the way, I would like to ask my fellow Member, Józsa, to take a seat and not to disturb the meeting. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-05-13-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In the last four years, the Ministry of Education has not worked in Hungary. In 2010, it seemed very strange, a little bizarre and very disturbing, but then very quickly it became clear to us why the education issue in Hungary does not have a separate wallet. Because, in fact, today in Hungary, you will soon form a government, and you will not seek a leader in new knowledge and education in Hungary, but in fact a bankruptcy administrator. Mr Lazarus, my fellow Member, explained that the success of a professional area and the success of good governance does not necessarily depend on the structure in which it is organised. That in itself could be true, and I accept it. There is one question here, and there is a debate between us, our faction and your faction, about what we really consider to be the success of good governance in Hungary. In fact, your perception of success is a little different than what our success is all about. Our success, our country of success, is not just about winning an election - because you have undoubtedly won this election. The question is, what will they do with this power? Many people trust you, not the majority of the country, and you know that, you can win an election, the question is always how they use it when they win this election. In my opinion, this governance structure is not in the interest of the Hungarian society, it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people, it is not in the service of the faith and trust in good governance, which you have mentioned a lot. Furthermore, I would also like to outline to you that it has been clearly demonstrated that this ministerial structure does not serve the cause of education. [[16.10]] You referred to it, and I know about your former mayorship that your education was close to you. And he did a lot, in the right direction, in my opinion, that's why. He went through what we have done in those cursed eight years, which you have mentioned so many times, even in this campaign, with Sisifus work, modernisation, and new knowledge. Thank you for that, because today I have a good example of what I can tell you. I am very sorry that when you were given a really big mandate, either at municipal level or at government level, you could not continue to do so. It is not my place to judge this, but you know it, and I know that with this mentality, this governance structure, the attitude towards Hungarian children, and with such a measure of appreciation for education, we are experiencing our own future. Regardless, Mr Lazarus, and I say to his entire faction, regardless of who will govern this country for the next 10 to 15 years. So this governance structure does not serve the issue of education, which I miss so much in Hungary. Despite all previous warnings, professional criticism and the painful experience of the past four years, you are still on the wrong path I was just talking about. I could also put it that you understand that the structure that you are setting up is too life-altering. It is too disoriented from Hungarian reality, it is not suitable to explore many aspects of society, many conflicts and many problems. Today, what is pushing people, their livelihood, their prosperity, the world in which Hungarian people, Hungarian children, have to cope cannot channel themselves into your political structure. And you know it very well. The structure that you are building is breaking up more and more from reality. It must be made clear that this ministerial structure has been unable to detect existing inequalities and tensions and will then channel it in. This can also be seen from the fact that social differences have deepened over four years. Despite all their efforts, whatever power they were given, they deepened. Poverty is spreading in Hungary. And the biggest problem is that the ability of education to compensate for poverty, the ability to pass on knowledge to Hungary's economy, which Mr Szijjártó also talked about, is based on the ability and creativity of the Hungarian economy to innovate. This new knowledge requires an approach that would reflect for me that you will raise the issue of education in Hungary and not put it under a bankruptcy administration, but would form practically your own ministry. Their argument, which I heard earlier, in the House now, during the debate, did not say that they basically separated the representation of the local government and the parliamentary assembly from the new electoral law. The argument that the citizens' affairs and the affairs of citizens will otherwise have to be dealt with by the municipalities, I would be able to accept it on your part if I did not consciously undermine self-government in Hungary to this extent, and those social aspects, the majority of citizens' relations, would not be classified under a bad governance structure, where human affairs and relations are virtually completely lost. In fact, this government policy tells the country not to try to be actively involved in their own affairs, by the way. This will be decided by your government, by your government structure or by the Fidesz Presidency or by your faction. It doesn't matter what anyone in Hungary thinks about the world's development, what they think about their own life, they don't have a choice. And people are feeling this more and more, because you can see that they are turning away from the whole political elite in Hungary. They lost a lot of votes, not only the parties that existed since the change of regime, but the political elite as a whole somehow broke away from Hungarian reality. Whether they are recent parties, or whether they are older parties that have existed since the change of regime, be they my party, the MSZP. The sad thing about this is that for me, and for me, this governance structure shows that the right-wing half of the system-shifting political elite hasn't learned anything from the last twenty-something years. This structure has become self-serving, in order to maintain a self-serving power. And it's a way to win an election. That's not what I'm questioning. You won the election. They got two thirds. But at what cost? And what price will Hungarian children, for example, pay? In 10 or 15 years, what will happen in this country? This is the question we must always ask ourselves, all politicians, old and new, irrelevant, old and young: why do I want to govern my country? Now I don't accept saving him from the Communists. This is no longer part of the Hungarian public speech, and you cannot say it legitimately. That won't be an argument. Finally, there will be a terrifying consequence of what you did, by the way. This ministerial structure is only one of the visible signs of how much you have separated from everyday reality. This is an accurate impression of how the Fidesz locks itself in and how the government locks itself in the inner world built by itself, which has less and less to do with people. Just because they won the election by two thirds, they will not be able to protect Hungarian people from being left behind by the world and beyond us, Hungarians. This policy is in the long term, a symptom of which is the governance structure, slow poverty and the policy of endless mediocrity in Hungary. More than anything else, the attitude of the governing parties is expressed by the intention that three areas, education, employment and energy, have not been represented on behalf of the ministries, and not even on behalf of the parliamentary committees, as a true success story, a real flagship, represented so many times by the government over the past four years. It hurts me that today we can only talk about a cultural committee, and the issue of education, but I believe my fidesz educational politicians feel the same way, not even on behalf of the committee. With this departmental structure, you will continue to push and even speed up our country on the slope that you were pushed to four years ago. The knowledge crisis that has been developed to the top of the global and economic crisis will deepen. Each day, the situation is more difficult to reverse and painful in Hungary's life. The country and its people's ability to adapt will be reduced. And in the world in which we all have to adapt, because whether we like it or not, if the left-wing government is leading Hungary, the world is passing by, and we will not be able to lie to the Hungarians anymore, it may be the last choice that the state, in any structure, will protect them from a rapidly changing world. I think that this is the biggest responsibility of politics, and this structure is just a symptom of what I was talking about. Thank you for listening.
u2014-05-13-36	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is true that the law on the listing of ministries and the establishment of a governance structure are the areas where opposition parties should always be allowed to approach the government side in criticism. Let me remember, we did so in 2010. However, as much as you have freedom, not necessarily the Prime Minister, I would like to note that, but the majority of the government has freedom in what kind of government structure you are creating, in this case also this... [[Dr. János Latorcai intervenes.]] It is not a Prime Minister's system, Mr Vice-President, because the basic law clearly settles the role of the Prime Minister and where it is, by the way, the task of the legislation is to shape the governance structure. And my problem begins right here. This law was put forward by simply not complying with the basic law which you adopted here in 2011. This law, in this form, is quite simply unconstitutional. It is a matter that Article 17 of the Basic Law, in paragraph (1), narrowly states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. Then paragraph 2 says that a minister without a wallet can be appointed to perform the duties defined by the government. [[16.20]] It is logical for me to conclude that, if it is not a minister without a wallet, but a minister with a wallet, then what is his basic task and authority, it must be settled in law, namely the law on the list of ministries. This was done in 2010, which is also referred to in the proposal, where the provisions on succession have practically defined how the powers will be shared between each wallet in the next term of government. That's what I'm missing here. This law says the following in 2. Paragraph 1 shall read: " 1. The Government shall establish its detailed tasks and powers in a regulation issued in the original legislative power. " Good: detailed task and competence. However, the powers of duty and authority should be included in this law. If nothing else, the provisions on succession. So there is a huge legislative gap, there is a list that contains nothing but the names of ministries; there is a legislative mandate to regulate detailed tasks and powers in the government regulation, which is between the two. So basic tasks and powers, there is no such thing as an orphan blind voice in this law, although, under the basic law, the listing law should provide for the basic tasks and powers of the ministries. So there is, of course, freedom for the majority of governments to form a governance structure, but it would take a little more than that. In this law, we should clearly state what the tasks and responsibilities of each wallet are. It is not entirely correct to understand that there is a Prime Minister's system, because this was the case in the Hungarian constitutional structure both before 2011 and since 2011; what powers are in place at the head of the state administration, how powers, government agencies and other national authorities are divided, this is not decided by the Prime Minister. If there is a majority of the government, or a simple majority, then the majority of the government that elects the Prime Minister is, I think, that, in accordance with the Prime Minister's expectations, but here in Parliament, it sets the governance structure. If a Prime Minister does not have a majority in Parliament in some way, this has been the case in the last 25 years, and he is forced to work with the government structure that the former parliamentary majority left him. This provision, not the government or the Prime Minister, freely determines the tasks and powers of the ministries, but has a legislative role, if you will, a guarantee element on the part of Parliament, which is important for the following reasons. A ministry is not just a political player, it is not a political body, but a top body of policy and sector bodies in the public administration. The distribution of functions at the head of the state administration among the top government bodies should not depend on the Prime Minister's political decisions at the moment. This, if we are clear about how the functions relating to public administration are otherwise divided by the basic law, is the competence of the legislation. This task cannot be saved, and it should therefore be declared to the authors, Viktor Orbán and Zsolt Semjén, and in this bill they should clearly clarify the role they intend to give to each wallet, the Prime Minister's Office and the wallets. This follows from the basic law, which follows from the screening of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 17 of the Basic Law. So the biggest problem is that, in this form, this proposal is quite simply leaky, it does not meet the requirements of the basic law. The proposal should provide for the division of labour between each wallet, if not otherwise, in the context of succession rules. This, once again, has an important guarantee of legal certainty, since it is also necessary for ordinary law-abiding citizens and for public administrations to see clearly and legally which ministries exercise supervision over each area. This cannot be the plaything of political decisions at a moment's notice. That is the point of the need for Parliament to define the basic tasks and powers of the ministries. I would like to point out that your proposal also states that detailed tasks and powers will be defined in a government decree. I stress once again: there is a hole in the basic law requirements and the submission 2. § (1). This deficit should be addressed urgently by the authors. I would like to comment on two more points on the proposal. There is, of course, an example, as our fellow Member Szijjártó said, that foreign economic policy was in part and in part in the foreign affairs portfolio, but there is no precedent for the change of the name of the foreign affairs portfolio since the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Batthyány Kázmér in the last 150 years. And I think that this is not by accident, although, after the change of regime, in the first government after the change of regime, the powers and responsibilities of the Ministry of International Economic Relations, led by Béla Kádár, were clearly separated in a separate wallet. Of course, I think that there is a strategic error between what we think and what Péter Szijjártó said that the fundamental commercial interests of the foreign economy or of a country cannot be independent from what a country thinks of its own geopolitical situation, specifically what we think of Hungary's role in globalisation. You can't just do business in the world and travel to different countries without having a clear vision of what we think of Hungary's place and role in globalisation today, what Hungary must do in order not only to suffer globalisation. And it's not just an external task. In principle, we are arguing about names, but the content is there, there is the content of the debate, that it is not a coincidence that in the last 150 years the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been called the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - and this is not merely a tradition - because it is not possible to rip away purely commercial tactical interests from the view that Hungary has played in the world. This change of name means, and if we listened carefully to Péter Szijjártó's presentation, this suggests that the Prime Minister, the government, believes that there are certain business interests that are independent of what we think about where Hungary can reach within the global processes for the next 20-30-50 years. We don't think that's true. Foreign economic interests cannot be removed from the vision that is in good times in a government, in the mind of a prime minister, about what it intends to do in order for Hungary to move from its semi-peripheral role, what it intends to do in order not to suffer global processes. There are no external economic interests that can be removed from foreign affairs, from global politics. The other change, which raises serious questions, is the wallet that transcends rural development into agriculture. We do not see exactly what is behind this, because you are indebted - and here there is a constitutional failure - by the author to determine the task and competence of the wallets on a general basis at least. However, at the time of the second Orbán government's wedding, we heard very harsh words about the turnaround of the Ministry of Rural Development under the Fidesz government, instead of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. And we had every hope that there was indeed a new direction in Hungarian rural policy and property policy, as the Secretary of State of József Ángyán and the national rural development strategy he enlisted gave many opposition representatives the right to trust. Then, of course, what has happened over the years has dissipated the illusions. So, if you will, with some irony, this change is logical, that they return to the good old agricultural name, because what has been going on in this area in recent years has not meant a break with the tenure policy of the previous twenty, twenty or a few years. It did not mean a break-up, since the policy that caused the huge concentration of estate remained, the policy of the estate that kept the large estate, the large plant, fattening. [[16.30]] In recent years, the share of family farms has fallen sharply. So the fact that you are going back to the name "farming" is actually a confession to the fact that you have been far removed from the 2010 promises. There is no longer an integrated rural development that looks at the problems of the countryside in its organic unity, not just agricultural policy and agriculture, but sees the tasks ahead of cultural rural development, sees the development of infrastructure in a uniform way, and the fact that Hungary's economic development is the key to strengthening the local economy. Strengthening the local economy could mean a shift from a long-standing employment crisis. As long as we are talking about agricultural policy and agriculture, we will continue to be in the wrong circles Hungary has been in since the change of regime. After you made that change of name, I suppose you admit that everything that was announced in 2010 was a polish. This is not an integrated rural development concept that was announced by Secretary of State József Ángyán at the time. Sadly, that's not what they promised back in 2010. Overall, I would like to ask that this bill be withdrawn, that it has every opportunity, even this week, to present a new bill; a bill that meets the criteria of Article 17 of the Basic Law, and at least the basic tasks and powers, whether with the succession rules, but also with the future ministries of the future government. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-38	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Lázár, State Secretary, came forward for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-39	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their contributions at this stage of the debate, particularly the thoughts of my fellow Members Erzsébet Schmuck and Ágnes Kunhalmi, which concern the implementation of sectoral aspects. I would only have one comment, perhaps to consider, in which I would ask for all insight and understanding, even taking into account the personal comments made to me. This is how many wallets have been created by governments since 1990, most wallets in 1990 and after: 13 wallets, 13 ministries. Last time, there were 11 ministries between 2006 and 2010, and now there will be 9 ministries. I don't see that as a screaming difference compared to what's going on in this country. So, if this thought were true, that only the topic that had a wallet was important, then there were a lot of losers in '90, '94,'98, 2002, 2006 and 2010 too. I think that's a bad assumption. Many decades of Hungarian intimidating is that only the thing that can succeed is the professional layer, the professional intellectuality, the professional lobby that can win itself to have its own ministry. This is not a guarantee of any success, because if I look at the performance of Hungarian education and Hungarian health care, when it was an independent Ministry of Health or an independent Ministry of Education, the performance was a disaster on certain topics. The gap, the difference, compared to the Western Europe you mentioned, has not increased, but has not decreased. I don't think that question is decisive. A much more exciting question is, if there are so many areas to be regulated by governments, what is the right solution? Should we create 25-30 wallets? - because that's the other answer. Or we try to create the thematic groups and create the conditions for the workshop within a wallet. This is what the current government is trying to do, not to provide an exclusive wallet for all subjects. That's impossible in a modern, complex, yet interrelated world. Thank you very much for your comments. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-05-13-40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President, KDNP Group, submitted a speech within a two-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of historical fidelity only, the facts are: Article 17 (1) states that the list of ministries is provided for by law. I would like to mention to Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, whom I respect very much for his speeches and for his extensive knowledge that, as I recall, from 1990 onwards, the list of ministries has been marked by the names of the ministries. In fact, those who used to sit here and sit here in 1994, remember that there was a mistake in it at the time, the Ministry of Finance, that was the designation, so the proposal came in, and it never included what the jurisdiction of these wallets was. So the list of ministries is regulated by law. The fact that I dared to mention that there is a Prime Minister system in Hungary clearly follows from Article 18 of the basic law. But there was never any doubt about it. For if the Prime Minister reads the first two paragraphs of this paragraph, this clearly indicates that he literally says: " The Prime Minister defines the general policy of the government. Within the framework of the general policy of the Government, the Minister independently manages the sectors and subordinate bodies of the public administration and carries out the tasks defined by the Government or the Prime Minister. " I think that makes this very clear. Thus, the Prime Minister clearly has a government in Hungary in constitutional law, and the government does not have a Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-05-13-42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-43	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Vice-President's words. I was not a Member of Parliament before, but I remember very well that in May 2010 there was a long debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about how MEPs, among the rules of succession of the law on listing at that time, looked at whether construction and other administrative sectors would be transferred to one or another ministry. So Act X also defined the tasks and powers of the ministries in this way. The other reason I asked for the first time was because of János Lázár, in which he responded to my fellow Members. We fully agree that there is an example, not only in the past or in the old system, but also in Western Europe, that there is a government with 20-25 wallets, typically in France. It is probably better to have a ministry play a coordinating role, thus coordinating between several administrative units and a coherent area. At this point, there are already legitimate objections to the Ministry of Resources construction, which my fellow Members will say. What Erzsébet Schmuck was talking about is, in fact, a difference in perception between us. The LMP thinks it would be right... - so we don't think of environmental protection as an administrative unit. It's a difference of perspective between us. We would consider it a good thing if the XXI. In Hungary, there would be a Ministry of Sustainable Development in Hungary, which truly manages more areas in an integrated way. This includes environmental and nature protection, but includes energy management. That, if you will, is a worldview difference between us. We believe that sustainable development in the world today is served by, for example, energy policy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we do not link and coordinate with other economic sectors. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-44	Thank you, Member Zoltán Balczó, Member of the Jobbik Group, for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-45	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am responding to the speech by Vice-President János Latorcai. Obviously, from '90 I couldn't look at the historical perspective, I was just preparing for 2010 with the law from which the next one can be read. I'll just tell you what belongs to the Ministry of National Economy; I'll have to stop before two minutes. " As regards tasks relating to economic policy, industrial affairs, trade, foreign economy, research and development and technological innovation, public finances, tax policy, economic policy macroeconomic regulation, accounting regulation, regulation of the financial, capital and insurance market, international financial relations, regulation of pension contributions and pension contributions and regulation of health insurance contributions, the Ministry of National Economy and Minister of National Economy should be understood. " [[16.40]] Thus, in 2010 it was so widely available to describe what exactly will belong to the new ministry, describing the changed function of the ministries. I will not bore you with telling you in detail what can be read out of this law, for example, to the Ministry of National Development, which has made it clear which ministry will take its place so far, but at the same time the full mandate could be read in 2010. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-05-13-46	Thank you, Congressman. István Hiller, Member of the MSZP Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-47	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear majority Factions! Here, in the debate on the bill, there is a sensible and I think that there is an important point of view, a difference of opinion. The bill tabled is, of course, about ministries, and I do not want to talk about the institutional system, but about a question that seems to be on the other side of the matter compared to what was said in the national speech. The view that Mr Lazarus said happens to be that every profession, every group of professions, sees its situation in a Central European way of thinking in a hierarchy by having a separate wallet that is not true and traditional, and it is also true that it is worth breaking up with. It is true that not only in the western part of Europe, but also in the eastern countries, far from us, following modern governance, the governance structure of Eastern countries has ceased. But there is another extreme: you cannot say modern government, where there are also equal and dismembered ministers of state within education. Not because of professional arguments, but because of a current personal issue that took place in 2012, you broke down the then Secretary of State for Education and created the State Secretary for Public Education and the equivalent State Secretary for Higher Education. I ask you, and I suggest you consider not to make any of the questions raised at the time because of the current personal problem - [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to mention a multiple word - structure. Bring it together. [[The president's ringing again.]] and create the Secretary of State for Education!
u2014-05-13-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For another two-minute speech, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Mrs LMP, but according to the house rules, I cannot speak to you now, and after the next round of group speeches, I will have the opportunity to provide your speech in a house-to-house manner. I would like to take this into account and study the house rules deeply. Ladies and gentlemen, We will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group.
u2014-05-13-49	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. In the last few minutes or hours, we've heard a reference to old traditions, history. The author said in about ten minutes that this proposal, which is before us, is part of the Hungarian administrative tradition, and then, in three to four minutes, he said that it was not part of the Hungarian administrative tradition; he explained and detailed the differences. I always like it when we deal with history - professional hazard - but at the same time, I recommend to everyone that the past is not a jar from which we take out what we want and ignore historical events that do not support our reasoning. Let us begin our historical traditions with one of our most wonderful democratic traditions, 1848. Few people know that the word "minister " means a servant, a public servant in this sense. Few people also know that the laws of April and the previous 12 points refer to the Hungarian Ministry responsible, and the people who took responsibility for this government saw themselves as servants. If we look at the proposal before us now, we see that ministers are not servants, they are not public servants; they are bureaucrats, and it is the top minister in charge of bureaucrats, who somehow takes the heavy weight of the government from the Prime Minister. In this sense, I can even say that I view as pointless a debate about who has a government or who does not have a government, because it seems that the Prime Minister's Office has a government. This can be seen from the view of the role that the law suggests to us. Of course, every criticism is justified to the opposition, which is that we are actually talking about foggy things, because we do not know exactly what is in front of us. Please forgive us for this, because we do not receive any support in this, because we do not know about the government programme, nor about the regulation that is being prepared in advance, or any other legislation about the responsibilities of the ministries. In the absence of this, it is very difficult to do anything other than every faction's own position, in its own view, to think about what might be in these legislations. Of course, it is right to say that similar legislation has been made in previous government cycles, but the way that the Prime Minister is currently without a government programme is unique, so we do not even know metaphorically, nor do we know what is behind the individual government structures. In keeping with the old traditions, it can be said that the present parliamentary term, or the strengthening of the Prime Minister's Office in such a way, is indeed not unprecedented in Hungarian history, but it is unprecedented that such concentration occurs. Although the Prime Minister's Office or the Prime Minister's Office, as it was called between the two world wars, had a strong role in this period, but it was not led by a minister, led by an official in the rank of State Secretary, who traditionally did not play a political role. It is possible to talk about the traditions of the past, but it is good to know that, both during dualism and between the two world wars, there were much more ministerial structures, much more ministries, much more cases that existed during this period. That is why I would like to ask everyone, my fellow Members, that when they draw from the past, they do so with the responsibility to quote these events exactly according to the facts and the facts of the past. Dear House, The governance structure in front of us, I believe, remains a constant continuation of the very bad administrative practice called the second Orbán government. Indeed, this government is successful in so much that it has been included in the books, it has been included in the textbooks, in the legislative textbooks, and in the latest legislative textbooks, the legislative and administrative practices that the government has been carrying out over the past four years are mentioned as a deterrent example. Everyone is absolutely right that, of course, it is possible to win an election with such political activity and performance; let me already refer to those Members who have spoken before me on this subject that it is worth considering at what cost. If we are serious about the fact that everyone and the government are here to benefit the country, then obviously no one can wish to destroy the administration, weaken the Parliament and weaken the legislation. This has happened over the past four years: this government has been characterised by bureaucratic inertia, tangled legislation and lack of consequences. I think that, of course, this could be different: it could be seen that this practice was wrong - the creation of life-alien top ministries and then the creation of a top ministry above top ministries - because however we try to find meaning in this mess, it seems that neither we can, nor the people can. [[16.50]] The government has been unable to legislate professionally in recent years, the most important legislation has been presented in the form of motions from its representatives. This was done to save people from consulting, or because the structure was unable to do the basic task of making legislative proposals. From this governance structure, it is clear that cases in Hungary that are painfully unresolved today are not given a prominent role: unemployment and lack of public security. Let me tell you a little bit more about this. According to official statistics, unemployment is falling today; if we look at the data of the HCSO, we can see this from it. However, if a person in this country can see a little with his eyes open, if we look behind the statistics, we can see that, and we can trust that this is not the case. Statistics are very artificial things. The time-to-hour employment of public workers, the 600 thousand of our countrymen who have been displaced abroad and the supply system have fallen out, who knows how many unemployed people do not appear in these statistics. So I think we can't just sit back. Just because we know statistics, KSH can produce statistics that the government can pat on the shoulder, it's not real. The reality is that today the terror of unemployment is constantly hanging over the head of social groups, the average person. The fact that the case of work, the issue of job creation, does not appear in any prominent manner in the government structure, this House, is a message if it does not become an independent ministry of work, if there will not be a ministry to take up work, naming the case in a country where workers are served by the Labour Code, where anyone can be dismissed on the grounds of a loss of trust. It is almost impossible for young women with no children or children, or for people over the age of 50, but it is also very common that if they do get a job, they are hired as wage slaves, and because of the slightest mistake or even illness, they can immediately buy their tents and become unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, This threatens everyone in this country. It can almost be said that those who have a job and those who do not have a job are both in a very bad situation. But vocational training is also in a terrible situation. While I said about the job issue, the problem with this area is that somehow it doesn't go into any ministry, the situation with vocational training is the other way around. Where there is a wallet for education, where there is ping-pong between other wallets with the issue of vocational training, there is a small margin for Chambers to have a say in the everyday life of vocational training, and sectoral ministries also have a very high regulatory power. The devil knows practically who has a say in vocational training today. I think you have also heard the saying, my fellow Members, that the child is lost among many midwives - well, vocational training is lost. Let me give you just one example. I think it will not be difficult for you to find out, ladies and gentlemen, which area of framework design regulations has slipped by two months compared to the others: vocational training. However, it was simply that four or five subjects of competence should have been developed, which was not successful, obviously not because in the governmental structure - not even in the previous structure, and also in the current one - it was not possible to jump on the very difficult task of finally deciding who was responsible for professional regulation. It is not clear to us how these problems, which my fellow Members have listed, are resolved in the current system. It is possible to pretend that they do not exist, but this system is inoperable and life-alert, disoriented from reality, everyday Hungarian practice. Dear House, One of the biggest problems in Hungary is the lack of work. People who have lost their jobs lose hope of a better life, that they can be a useful part of our society. The system of government, its structure and operation are your responsibility, and I agree with you. I ask you to be worthy of this responsibility, to consider the proposals you hear from the opposition benches, and to make this work a centre of government affairs. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-05-13-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dearest Majority Faction! So much has been said here that I won't keep you long. There has been a lecture on the theory of law here, there has been a historical one, and fortunately, Mr Balczó and my fellow Member András Schiffer have said so much of what I should have said that I can make this brief. First of all, what I would like to say is that, obviously, the adoption of this draft legislation that this House is asking us to do is unacceptable in this way, in my view, that we do not see how the values of many of us will appear. We do not know, many have already told us about environmental and nature protection, where it goes, its structure cannot be seen, we do not see the state of rural development, and this is worrying for many of us. Mr Lazarus just said that the number of ministries alone does not indicate the success of a sector. Let me disprove this by saying that when there was a Ministry of Environment in the country and it was independent, it was one of the most successful sectors. God knows, I didn't like the MSZP administration, but I have to admit that between '94 and 98, when most environmental laws, nature conservation laws, national parks were established, it was one of the most effective periods in the sector. After that, the first Orbán Cabinet, when it was an independent Ministry of Environment and led by Béla Turi-Kovács, was the last truly successful period when environmental protection and nature protection were able to deliver results, and it was able to take on sectoral results that have hardly been achieved since then. After that, the subsequent government had a small period of time when the Natura 2000 legislation was adopted, and the Ombudsman of future generations stood up, which could have been successful; and this was followed by the last four years, when the environmental and nature protection sector in practice began to dive. There was no change in regulation, let alone no change in the creation of protected areas, but in virtually everything the legislative background allowed the pressure of the economy at a level that created environmental health risks. So I would deny what Mr Lazarus said, and it does affect whether a wallet works independently, and if it has a major politician within the government, then how can it represent the interests of the sector. Environmental and nature protection is obviously one of the most important portfolios for a green party, since it is essentially trying to limit the sustainable use of natural resources on which the long-term economy intends to build. As a result, it is very difficult for me to accept a structure and legislation where a separate environmental portfolio does not appear. The other part, which is very painful for me, is the lack of rural development. Mr Lázár said that with the creation of the independent Ministry of Agriculture, the Prime Minister and Mr Semyen would like to establish a classic system, but I must say that these classic Ministry of Agriculture wallets were viable when rural development was integrated into all other sectoral ministries. At a time when the European Union was responsible for financing rural development and the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund became the two pillars of the most important funding for rural development programmes, rural development and agriculture were closely linked and could no longer be separated. It is not only because European funding combines it, but also because there is no European country where rural development does not have a sovereign role or separate it from the cause of the earth. Currently 5.3 percent of the people employed in Hungary live in agriculture, which is a very, very small part of the proportion of people living in the countryside. Agriculture alone can only address this layer of people who live directly from agriculture. However, there are not only farmers in the countryside, but also doctors, teachers, engineers, shop sellers, service providers, who need to make clear use of the development resources that are now being separated from the government structure to ensure their living conditions. [[17.00]] As a result, since Fidesz has had the honour of practically winning individual mandates in rural areas, and there are many people among you who represent small settlements, I would very much like to point out that the best interests of these small settlements can only be properly represented and worthy if they are given the rank of an independent ministry to provide them with the background necessary for the provision of resources from the government level. Unfortunately, the separation of rural development resources and agriculture cannot be achieved at this age. Our most important natural resource is agricultural land. A good rural development can be based on local resources, on the industry needed to process and process it. All of this cannot be achieved by tearing them apart, tearing them apart and trying to finance them independently, as the present structure is trying to reflect. I believe that the biggest disadvantage of the last 24 years has been seen in the Hungarian countryside, and although it has been placed on the flag of all governments to improve the fate of those living in the countryside, it has been achieved by each government in the weakest way, unfortunately. Obviously, this has been influenced by a number of external factors and European processes, but I think that if Fidesz were serious about wanting to represent the people living in the countryside, and all the individual Members who have obtained a mandate could not allow rural development to be dismantled and rural development to be degraded to agriculture and agriculture, as is now seen as a portfolio. I am very, very concerned about all this, and I very much ask the honourable majority to consider that without an independent environmental portfolio there is no environmental protection, and without an independent environmental protection, the country has no environmental safety, as there is no transparent rural development in Hungary without rural development. There were two other things that I wanted to reflect on that Mr Lazarus said. One is a little more negative, the other is a little more positive; I would like to comment on it with one more sentence, if I may. One was that the new structure was very... [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] I'll start with the negative one, then the positive one. The first is a bit more negative: he said that the redistribution of natural and economic resources should be considered. The problem is that I recognise the two-thirds majority, but Hungary does not have two-thirds of its inhabitants in Fidesz, even though it seems that the redistribution of resources has so far benefited those who entered in time. [[Dr. András Aradski: Not yet.]] Not yet? So, unfortunately, most of the people living in the Hungarian countryside did not enter Fidesz, so the redistribution of economic resources can be a concern, and it would be good if this were not the risk. What I saw as a forwarding step was when Congressman Lazarus said that the Prime Minister's Office would be once again led by a minister. That was comforting because the last time the Fidesz government did this, it failed badly in the next election. So from now on, we only have to work here so that it doesn't follow eight years like it did then. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr István Józsa, who is not in the room right now, applied. [[Depreciation, interruptions. Dr. András Schiffer: Show him out! Defiance.]] So we continue to write ahead... [[Dr. István Józsa enters the room.]] Congressman, I called you. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-53	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for the opportunity to use the two-minute circles under the new house rules. The truth is that I would like to respond to a much earlier comment, as everyone in this House feels that, since there is no government programme, there could be no discussion of the government programme, and to some extent this title listing, which is contained in the submitted law, shows certain elements of the debate on both the government side - I think Secretary Szijjártó's comments - and on the opposition side to some extent on the missing government programme. In this sense, I believe that this debate goes on with what Vice-President Latorcai has said, which paragraph is exactly what it contains, because it is about what none of the paragraphs contain, because it has not been tabled. At the same time, the political experience of the past period, the country's performance, shows the contexts that can be discussed professionally, and I would also like to draw attention to this professional debate. In this sense, all the contributions were indeed valuable, except perhaps the comments of Mr János Pócs, which showed clear arrogance of power. So when a person does not have a professional argument, he refers to the election result, and if he recalls in what structures, in which systems it is customary to threaten Members with prison in Parliament, it is clearly called dictatorship. [[Noise in the pro-government benches.]] So I would very much warn the Member against going further on this line of thought - stay in the previously represented professional line of work! I do not believe that this style should prevail in the Hungarian Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-54	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches announced in writing. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2014-05-13-55	Thank you very much. At the time, as I drew attention to the fact that it is appropriate to hold a debate along professional lines, I would like to talk about the possibilities of economic governance in the structure outlined and the experience that the period since 2010 has given us. The fact that the Ministry of Finance was pro-formáció has ceased, and the Ministry of National Economy has absorbed the former Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. This seemed to be an organizational, organizational step, but at the same time, if we look at the effects of government work and economic governance, what we need to see is that, although the economic wallet has the dominance in its name, it appears on behalf of the Ministry that the Ministry of National Economy, in fact, the finance policy, the budget policy has dominated the entire policy of economic governance. So this merger is an external observer, so it also shows to an opposition Member of Parliament that it is unfortunate that the rigour that the Ministry of Finance has to show in the field of fiscal policy, financial policy, budgetary management, will be put under the same roof by the government with that economic wallet - we call the Ministry of National Economy, because ultimately its impact will indeed extend beyond the borders of the country - which, on the other hand, would have the task of dealing with economic recovery, a progressive, paternalist economic policy. With an economic policy that does not run away from Hungary, investors come here, which results in predictable legislation and economic legislation in the country, which is a prerequisite for all operations, and the result of which is not as political horseback as it is possible to put out the country's sign that " you must not build here '. It's kind of like putting it out in a part of the city that it's a no-building area, because they're saving it for something better, but it's just a question of what's a better time when you can build it. This is the task of redeploying the market, in which, of course, anyone can play a role, but it is only the nice name of the mallstop, because the Ministry can issue a unique license. He gave me 20 or so. So this means that those who are more equal than equals because equals are subject to the fact that they can't build anything, that the more equals can get permission through the ministry loophole - twenty-one of them - that's what can be said in terms of the need for transparency that it's not permissible. 'Cause if there's a sign out there that says there's a construction ban, and only those who are kissing can come in, and they can prove their conformity somewhere, it's definitely at the expense of all of them. You may be able to significantly improve the interests of one or two actors, and this may be what Congressman Pócs referred to when he referred to justice, but this is definitely wrong professionally. [[17.10]] So one of my main comments is that it would be time to rehabilitate the Ministry of Finance in his name, organisation and function; if he referred to the traditions of 1848, then he would definitely have a place, because this was one of the key issues for the responsible Hungarian government to have an independent Ministry of Finance, and then he had it. So it's more than an organizational issue, it's a matter of substance, so that the functions that really conflict with each other don't get mixed up, and the effectiveness of economic governance is significantly damaged. Another of these essential elements, which was set as a goal at the time of government formation in 2010, is the implementation of economic governance. These 9 ministries are iron rings of wood, because there are 99 State Secretarys with the same number of State Secretarys; so if you look at the government structure as well as the operation of ministers and State Secretarys, this is all government, then the number of government participants has not decreased or even increased significantly. So these 9 ministerial posts could not achieve at all the objective of achieving a slimmer, cheaper, more effective governance here. In fact, this structure, which you have established, is a covert presidential system, because the draft presented shows the operation of the government, as my fellow Member László Kiss has already stated, that the actual operational prime minister tasks will be performed by János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office; Viktor Orbán practically performs presidential functions, and, if you take it this way, then President János Áder will only have a protocolary role, because the presidential system will be implemented within the Ministry. The Prime Minister is not an operational director of the government, he delegates those tasks. There is another social theory approach to this. Max Weber calls this a leading democracy, and I believe that the Orbán government's theorists must have drawn from it, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that he was thinking of something else: democracy was the focus, and the competition of the party leaders is the Max Weber-driven democracy. In Hungary there is one leader - a democracy approach. So it is not certain that the proposal tabled, which, I agree with Mr András Schiffer, is actually creating a legal gap, because, although it authorises the government to make provision for the partial rules of its own operation in a regulation, it should be more detailed than the part, and more detailed than the draft, in the form of a bill, which is not available. So here's a sketch, there's a structure in which you're allowed to use a footnote to regulate the details in a regulation, but what's between the two is the point, it's nowhere. So it seems you don't know anything about your own government structure today. This is the privilege of the leader within the framework of a driven democracy, he has a vision of the country, he will then dictate it on 5 June and publish the government decree in which he explains what he had in mind. Unfortunately, you, majority representatives, will have nothing to do with this, and this means that the Hungarian Parliament will not be able to discuss the real content of the governance structure, the real functioning of the ministries, because it simply does not get here, it will get out of the House, it will get out of the framework of democratic negotiation. Returning to economic governance: Péter Szijjártó, who will be responsible for foreign affairs and foreign affairs - let us say so, because I do not want to advance what will be exactly - said eloquently that the reorganization of the world and strong national interest enforcement are needed for a fast-reaction government work. It is true that there may be crises in the world, such as right now, not far from our borders, in Ukraine, but the logic of the economy is not the logic of the Orbán quicksand, that it turns here, turns there, shoots here, shoots there. This is only capable of undermining the confidence of economic operators. It's the other way around. The quality of economic governance is determined by how predictable, how stable and how well its directions are. If someone changes direction so quickly, it cannot be calculated, an investment cannot be organised, it will not be normal economic operation, there will be no economic growth. I was pleased to hear when the Secretary of State spoke about the 6 percent increase in exports from 2012 to 13, while domestic consumption stagnated or slightly decreased, GDP remained essentially unchanged. Could it be true, then, that $1,000 billion of VAT fraud, in connection with which a virtual export increase can be detected? So I would also like to support it from the side of the macroeconomic analysis, which, by the way, has already been confirmed by Eurostat that there is probably a VAT deficit of 1000 billion. That this is the result of fraud or non-collection, or that the product is not created at all, requires a deeper analysis, but if it is true that there has been a EUR 1000 billion VAT fraud here for years, then that means that the 6 percent increase in exports exists only on paper, it has been written down so that VAT can be recovered. By the way, the magnitudes are also about right, I say, compared to the other two elements, the stagnation of internal consumption and stagnation of the economy. So if these two stagnates and the exports increase, it's only virtually possible, it's papered that they can win the VAT for themselves. So here it would be important for the Ministry of Finance to be independent, to be able to implement a consistent, hard money policy, to have the government's exchange rate target, not to float the forint from 265 forints at the time of the change of government to 317 forints, or where it stands now, around 305 forints - this is already a success for the government. We, the sufferers of government work, the foreign exchange credulists - I personally am not one of them, but I know the problem of many of them - suffer from this forint exchange rate, which the government claims has nothing to do with, because he does not have an exchange rate goal. I think that if there was a real Treasury Department, he could be tasked with the law to deal with these issues. At the same time, if the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy were to be separated, the economic portfolio could act as a real economic policy workshop and be released, at least at the level of legislation, from these zigzags that it is forced to do. This does not allow effective government work. And let me give you one more thought from the experience of economic governance. You announced economic governance in 2010; one of the elements I have already mentioned is that there have never been so many members of the government, including State Secretarys, before. But there is another part: you announced a purchasing stop, which was extended year after year again, with the result that the ministries spent 160 billion forints on themselves in four years, without actually having a government mandate or parliamentary mandate. That's 40 billion forints a year. [[Dr. András Schiffer consults Dr. Répássy Róbert and Dr. János Latorcai.]] And it is true, I am pleased to see that the LMP-Fidesz Grand Coalition intends to form in the horseshoe, and party president András Schiffer is having an in-depth discussion with the Fidesz State Secretary and the KDNP Vice-President. [[Deficiencies, interruptions on both sides.]] For the record, I would like to state that democratic processes are taking place here in the horseshoe, and that there is a government-anti-constitutional coalition cooperation. [[17.20]] But that doesn't change the point that what András Schiffer said about the structure as a criticism is true, and what the government side was trying to say to protect the structure is very unstable. With threats of power, issues that deserve real debate cannot be dealt with, and the fate of the country is fundamentally affected. We would first like to see such a presentation from the government side, after which we can hold this debate on content. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-05-13-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, LMP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The May Other has warned us four years ago that there is doubt that the effective solution to the social policy challenges facing the Hungarian government through a mammoth-sized human high-level ministry is an effective solution. We said that there would be doubt about the effective functioning of the mammoth administration. But unfortunately, the result ended with all the expectations that were outdated. Moreover, due to the opaque structure, the control of each policy area has become almost impossible, and the public has not been able to see into the processes at all, or could hardly unravel the direction and speed of the policy work with the top wallet with the opaque structure. However, it may have been suspected that the areas of expertise that came together did not seek cooperation and reconciliation, but competed with each other and sought to enforce their interests at the expense of each other. Moreover, social organisations, stakeholders and experts have been completely excluded from the decision-making process. But they may also consider their oligarchs as part of civil society, because their hands have reached the Ministry; let's just think about vocational training or higher education. The Ministry structure is flawed, but the government's intention was really lacking, so the results did not fall by accident. But the stakes are huge, much higher than we think. The stakes are huge, because the development of human resources is one of the top issues of the Hungarian economy and the rise of Hungarian society. Without a strong and effective social policy, there is no successful economic policy. That is why human resources need to be developed. Social policy is a multi-refundable investment. However, a strong and effective social policy cannot be expected from the centralised structure of the human mammoth administration, because it is quite simply inadequate, even if there is a government intention to develop human resources. Without a strong and effective social policy, however, there will be no social ascent, and Hungary will not be able to break out of the prolonged social and economic crisis. The most decorated role in the outbreak lies with education, but it is not possible for large masses to emerge from poverty and vulnerability because the Hungarian school system recreates inequalities and strengthens disadvantages from home. Without the quality reform of education, the fall of the middle class and its slippage cannot be stopped in the long term, which would require at least a separate government representation of this key area. According to the LMP, a strong Minister for Education, indeed representing the interests of education and growing generations, is needed, so that when the minister responsible for the balance of the budget announces new restrictions, there should be a strong Minister for Education who will strike the table at the government meeting and tell Viktor Orbán that we cannot do this; that when the planned measures of other areas within the government conflict with the interests of education and young people, then there must be someone who will stand up for the future of Hungary and says, so far and no longer. It seems that the government side does not consider the issue of education to be so important that the new Parliament will no longer have an independent education committee. This has not been done on a single occasion since 1990. Besides, I don't think we need any commentary, that's for you. Over the past four years, we've seen countless signs of over-grabbed, paralysed government operations. The confusion was compounded by some unthinkable reforms, so let's just think about nationalization of schools. In the mammoth administration and the associated background institutions, when scandals erupted, no one knew who to turn to for a solution. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] If we draw a balance, we get that the top ministry is facing serious efficiency problems, more expensive than the wallets operating independently of each other, not capable of real solutions and reforms. The damage to the footstep of the mammoth Ministry Hungary, the Hungarian people, the Hungarian future, yet you insist. According to the LMP, that's a big mistake. Allow me to make an indication of the speech by my fellow Christian Democrat. I find it regrettable that " the teaching, the two thousand-year-old Christian tradition and, in particular, the social teaching that can now be called 123 years old - I am talking about the Rerum novarum encyclical of 1891 - thus ignoring all this, the man is willing to consider as a subordinate resource to the economy and to vote in favour of this, asking for support. Thank you for listening.
u2014-05-13-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, Member of the Fidesz Group, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-05-13-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to reassure my fellow Member, Joshua, with all due respect, that he has misunderstood something. Congressman, when the hatred of your faction continued on the bill for ministries, which we also experienced in the campaign, malicious hatred [[Lajos Korózs: There is no benign hatred.]] then I took the liberty of saying that this government work deserved a continuation on the part of the people. From a faction in which the MSZP government received no continuation at the time, because they were driven by their own interests, who were in prison, there are those who are there now, and perhaps there will be those who will still be there. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Tell me about it.]] And not because I or we have said it, fellow Members, because your faction is failing itself. Didn't Gábor Simon fail himself, Comrade Zuschlag told us where the money in the plastic bag was in the vault. [[Lajos Korózs: You took it, Jani!]] And perhaps Ferenc Gyurcsány will continue the confession when he said [[István Szávay: Where does that come from? Dr. András Schiffer: What are you doing here?]] That they're going to find out where the MSZP money has migrated from. So, my fellow Member, don't be afraid of us in this regard, but of themselves. [[Dr. István Józsa: I refuse! That's a threat!]] Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-60	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Teleki submitted a speech in a two-minute timeframe, MSZP Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because there has been a lot of talk in the debate, and I feel it is very important to say that I, too, am missing a lot of things in this law about listings, namely that I do not see the possibility of opening up the nation's future in this law. I am thinking of what my fellow Member Agnes Kunhalmi was talking about, education, and others have said about it, and I think that there is a particular weight and a particular weight of education that could really create the opportunity to show education separately in this law. But I'd keep going. When it comes to education, I also say - because the future is being stolen very often by the current government from young people - because if it does not give it a special space, it is very difficult to see and perceive that something is happening, because what is not, they do not like to talk about it very much, and if there is no main title and a main chapter of an institutional system, then I see a very big problem. We did not talk about those things today, and I think it is very important to mention even the youth part of this matter, because when we talk about the future, education is not only important, which is one of the most important. The youth part has become important to me in this debate because let's think about what we are talking about in Hungary about unemployment, how many people are leaving the country and how many are unable to make a living in this country, and in parallel we are not setting up a concept of what we want with youth, and we are not dealing with this subject in a separate chapter. [[17 .30]] Therefore, I think it is very important, as Mr Schiffer said, that this bill should be withdrawn, and perhaps it should be rethinked how you intend to present important topics, youth, education and - I cannot mention it now because of the shortness of time - the issue of employment, so it is very important [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'd like to think about it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-05-13-62	Thank you. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President, applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am following this House, and I have misremembered that this proposal from 1994 mentioned not the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is also important because the next thing should be remembered by my fellow Member, István Józsa. I don't know if you remember when a certain patalia broke out within the faction in 2002, because the law on the listing of the ministries at that time accidentally missed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and then the Secretary of State was a pretty serious person, actually the president of the party. [[The intervention of Lajos Korózs.]] I would like to add something to this as to what the presentation says about tasks and powers. It wouldn't hurt to take the past out, just to make sure that we're on our way to the future. It says here that this law is 1. The Government is obliged to submit a legislative amendment to the Parliament within 120 days of the entry into force of this Act. Thus, it has been 120 days to develop these tasks and powers, but the government has been authorised, regardless of the time-limit, to carry out, within the limits of the budget, the chapter transfers necessary for the implementation of this law. Well, that's a good place to argue. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Now, however, I would like to say that there is no such legal obligation, but, in accordance with the basic law, the detailed tasks and powers of the government are described in a regulation issued under the original legislative powers of the Government and will be described. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-64	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, from the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little sorry that our fellow Member, János Lázár, is not in the room, because I was also inspired by his two-minute speech, in which he stood up for the existence and success of the mammoth Ministries - of course he called coordination within a sufficient wallet as a condition. One part of this is directly linked to him, because no one should be naive. This government structure, which we are currently discussing, was put into practice a good six months ago, when - raising the Prime Minister's Office as a ministry - they practically took over and included development policy under the Prime Minister's Office, and the consequences of this can already be felt by us. We are currently living in a country that can develop with roughly foreign money. We simply do not have our own resources to develop our country, because it is spent here by different governments in different ways. However, we see subsidies coming from abroad. Now, you caught it, and this whole thing was involved with the Prime Minister's Office. It seems that John Lazarus will be the man who will be disposing over HUF 8000 billion in development money. It is particularly painful, by the way, and Róbert Benedek Sallai has already discussed this quite carefully, that rural development is also here, the 25-year-old stepchild in this country, in which there is one of the most important breakout points in this country. Once again, it will not be in its proper place, they will again take it and put it in a mammoth training facility, and there among all the midwives the child will be lost again - I will envelop it, in four years' time to see if I am right. This reorganization itself - as you can see, John Lázár will be under the control of various sources and professionals - I must say a few words. We can see that so far there have been quasi-independent organs that have done their job. It was chaos, as one of the affected says, but you have done your job without chaos now, the whole system is frozen, no one can access these sources - anyone who is rightfully waiting for it is not. Anyone who has already started the development and wants to carry it on will not get it either, who wins and is rightfully waiting for the money, will not get it either. We're on the whole system. It is very interesting that the János Lázár who is involved in this matter stands for centralization. Rather, I think you should exercise restraint and self-criticism and review the operation of the last six months and look forward to the next six months, because it seems that it does not favour transparency or the reduction of corruption risks by carrying out such a transaction over people's heads. I would add that the operation itself is not only ambiguous now, because we can see now that it is not working, but we should also examine where these professionals are going. We see that the whole system also stands because some of the professionals - hearing what is being prepared here - simply flee. The question is who the new professionals will be. We see that there are job ads, but how can you make the system work? We see that you were supposed to be speeding up, but that's a pretty shady explanation, because it's frozen right now, so I have to ask you, what's the purpose of this whole restructuring thing? In this country, who would think that a forward-looking measure would be to put such an important area that would disperse over so much money in one place? Above this area, János Lázár will disposal, who has a very spectacular political record, and, moreover, when the first ominous signs come, so the system does not work, rather than thinking about what they did wrong and what they should do differently, they start acting like the elephant in the porcelain shop, confirming with Deputy State Secretary Nándor Csepreghy, and practically putting the country back on the international stage in an extremely awkward situation. All in all, I can tell you, and I have the same reflection for two minutes of János Lázár, that you are constantly centralising and limiting control where transparency is most needed and that the system can function in your network. This, of course, may hold some positive political results from your point of view, let's just say that you will control the whole thing manually, but you don't think for a second that anyone will believe you're doing this for the benefit of the public? Look, in this region we live in, we have a loss of 200 billion per year of corruption in the European Union, only in terms of subsidies. It is quite obvious that there is a huge risk of corruption in Hungary as well. I think that a European government, if there is such a situation, is thinking more about solutions, rather than fighting, especially on an international stage. You should consider how to create a structure that reduces the risk of corruption, not one that increases and, moreover, should guarantee a functioning system for people. For you, at least in terms of development resources, this is not a success. So it will be interesting to hear John Lazarus talk about how great it would be to create such large mammoth ministries here. By the way, I must also add that, as Mr Lazarus said here about coordination within the wallet, this is, in any case, a beautiful dream for him, since we have seen that in the last four years of the Orbán government, each policy could function in conflict, often within a wallet, and sometimes between wallets. Take education, for example, there has been a lot of talk about it today. You are the ones who have reduced the age limit for compulsory education, thus crossing almost all existing employment targets. It was you who shortened the period of vocational training [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] This has also harmed employment. Or let's look at tax policy... - I conclude from my fellow Members' metacommunications that they disagree, but in the end, you have the opportunity to make a two-minute comment, so you can press a button - but what about tax policy? You're the ones who got the tax credit out. What did they do with this? The labour force that has as little education as possible has been expensive and the hardest to employ in this country. You've done a lot of things that weren't in harmony with each other, either between wallets or inside wallets. But let's look at what happened inside the wallet, let's look at the example of the EMMI. I have to add that I have to start with a quote. Four years ago, you created the human wallet with a cry, and I must quote Mr. Tibor Navracsics that you attach strategic importance to man. So he began by adding " strategic importance to man, to us as a member of the community, with his community, his talents, his training, his social circumstances as a national resource, " said Tibor Navracsics, "not statistical data, a national resource, which must contribute to the most versatile development of his personality. " [[17.40]] Let's talk a little bit about how employment and social policy are in your system. The biggest loser of the Fidesz government is these two, employment policy and social policy. What did you do? It is okay - although it is not okay for many people, and I also dispute it - that since Orbán governments exist in this country, there is no employment portfolio on its own. But the fact that you did it, that you separated the employment into two parts and said that the NGM had one part and that the other part was sent to Sándor Pintér, who, by law enforcement, created virtually a public service program, has no technical explanation whatsoever. Only a political explanation is possible. I've been explaining this to you all these years. If that's how the system works, I'm going to continue to explain this, because it's not going to go one by one. The other is that there is the EMMI, for example, the mammoth administration. If you want to coordinate inside the wallet, start with the EMMI. Here you have grouped four areas: health, education, culture and social policy, and you have taken on board, and at the same time you have made a huge withdrawal from the system, and I am not exaggerating if I say that you have taken hundreds of billions of forints out of these areas. So I'm asking you perfectly logically, given the question, what was your purpose? Better coordination? I don't think so. The fact that the withdrawal did not appear and that it was able to do so nicely, in an outrageous way, and at the same time I know of countless cases, as I have worked in these areas in recent years to compete with each other, so they have created a situation in this mammoth administration in which one policy was practically only at the expense of the other. This is by no means an effective and humane coordination within a wallet, but a wolf's law that you have imposed on individual ministries, and those who have been wronged were citizens, and they are the most difficult citizens. And let me add, for the past four years, you have made sure that there are more and more of these people. You represented two thirds of a fifth. The kind of social catch-up that might have started earlier was practically wide open, and more and more people have become poor in this country. We are now talking about the fact that we are a country of 4 million poor people, and this situation is getting worse, because the unemployment situation, and indeed the stocks of people who are not well-kept, are not falling in this country, but are growing. It is a big mistake, by the way, that you have this attitude towards the poor people, because everyone in this country now knows that it is becoming easier and easier to become poor because of your politics, and it is more and more difficult to get back to employment or education. I would particularly like to say here about the people working in the social field, because they are one of the greatest victims of your governance. They were the ones with whom even their own minister didn't sit at a table practically, saying that they didn't do value-making work, they didn't contribute to GDP. Is this human resource management to you? This is how a human resource minister and a wallet relate to the people who are in the 21st century. Do they perform one of the most important tasks of the century and care for those who need to be cared for? Is that your attitude? And when you say you're doing this, when you're talking about it? But I'll tell you something else. Technically, when you started to govern four years ago, you began your political performance by extorting the working people. For example, there were families. Look, you started by saying that one of your first measures in family policy was to restrict working alongside a child. I can safely say it, and let me live with your rhetoric, as a mother of two, I know how capable a woman is. Yes, we are. You took it, and you limited it. After that, they started steering, steering, the years went by, the elections were coming, they restored the system. What was that, gentlemen and ladies? ! What are you talking about? They practically created a system in which people who can, can and want to work were deprived of their jobs. Or, for example, there are people who have changed their ability to work. There are many of them who can and want to work. It took a judgment of the Ab, a resolution of the Constitutional Court, to get the job back for those who have the opportunity to do so. But there's community service. You guys did the same thing with community service. They have practically created a secondary labour market, where people can be worked for much less money, fully at the mercy of them, and we see that you are not yet able to boast of this achievement. No wonder they banished this to another ministry so they wouldn't have to face the weight of their own actions, such as the fact that many public institutions have now re-employed people at a cheaper rate, but not at a wage that these people can live on. To sum things up: I think it would be wiser to hold back a little while, talking about what kind of wallets should be created and what powers. Your performance over the last four years does not give you the right to make statements that mammoth ministries can have a positive impact on the country's operation. We've seen and demonstrated how the human wallet doesn't work in this country, and they can't deny it to people because people feel it on their skin every day. And the other is, I would very much like to ask you to understand that if there is coordination between your wallets, you need it inside your wallet. And if the fate has led you to be on the government again, and it is again that you will be building the ministerial structure, then I would like you to pay attention to the fact that it is not so ugly that within a mammoth, there will be competition between individual policies. I believe that this is the minimum that, having the social mandate that they have received again, they will do for the Hungarian people. But if they don't, the May Other Politics will be here, and will keep warning you of what your commitment is. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-05-13-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A two-minute speech was submitted by Congressman György Balla, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor.
u2014-05-13-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for this speech because I suspect that we are at the end of the debate, and I also think that the people in this room have long forgotten what the subject of the debate is, because it is a list of ministries, which is not the same as the tax policy, education policy and health policy debate. There is a place for it, honourable Members. They're in the electoral programme, but the debate on electoral programmes doesn't usually take place in Parliament. [[Lajos Korózs: Then where?]] It's in front of people, and it has results, and it's called election and election results. With all due respect, I would like to ask everyone that the same sentences that they have been saying for four years, not even changed, in order to be able to understand each other, to be able to have a normal debate, do not start talking the same way. People gave me a clear answer. You said, Congresswoman, that people would not accept this. That's right, there's five percent of people who didn't accept that vote for you. And there's 45 percent who supported it, and they're supporting us. If we are thinking about democracy, if we think that we are here after the mandate of the people, then a week after the elections, let us stop saying what people think and what they don't think. They made that clear, and there was an election result. Now we've talked about a list of ministries. Our election promise was clear, we said we'd continue. This structure is exactly the same as what we did before, and we meet that expectation. We understand that the opposition does not support, and we did not expect that, but let us finish here and now, please let us work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-05-13-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a two-minute speech.
u2014-05-13-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Director, the thing is, we're going to let you work, that's why we're here, that's why we're arguing. You know, this is a parliament, and working here means arguing. You may not like this, but this is how we view this type of work. And the thing is, I'm the one who's always refraining from going into this numerology, how much authority has been given. Indeed, on April 6th, you were given the proper authority to govern the country. If you're going to make a lot of comparisons here, maybe you didn't miss the fact that you won again, but a lot of half a million people thought that there wasn't only Fidesz now. But more importantly, perhaps, in spite of that victory, it should be said in a somewhat more moderate manner, Mr. Group Director, that you are talking about an election programme. Well, we've been through an election where neither the ruling party nor the alliance have announced an election program. There are two opposition parties in the House, which had a programme, Fidesz-KDNP had no election programme. That's the thing. Then they come in, they don't advertise a government program, they choose a prime minister. But we are still not over the hard part, because we are bringing forward a law on the list of ministries, which, once again, I would like to emphasise, does not speak of the powers of the ministries in an unlawful manner. [[17.50]] Even though you are shaking your head, Mr. Group Director, the fact is that the relevant pass of the basic law is quite clear, paragraph 2 of the Act, the mandate of ministers without a wallet may be determined by the government, but the bill itself refers to the detailed tasks and powers of the Government. What is the basic task and competence is not here. If there is no definition of tasks and powers, opposition representatives are condemned to try to make a totem as to what the hell these names mean, which you have just passed in the form of a bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-05-13-70	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr István Józsa, MSZP applied for a two-minute speech. You have the floor.
u2014-05-13-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In representative democracy, you have learned it as well as I have from the'90'period, there are theoretical criteria and practical requirements. This is exactly the practical requirement that we expect from you, for which you asked for time, Mr. Group Director, to work. So this is exactly what we need to do, and in accordance with the theoretical requirements of representative democracy, we need to put forward proposals in Parliament in accordance with practice. So what we're saying is that this sketch you brought in here, a very narrow presentation, doesn't show the work that you require that the opposition want you to do. Let alone leave, demand, demand, wait. So please comply with the noble people's authority that you refer to, and let Parliament operate as it should. They do not want to deal with, in the context of national consultations, with the conditions and correspondence of the questions that you have already answered, what politics should be about, but with the rules of legislation, the Constitution, which are now called the basic law, to bring the questions that need to be decided here. I was very pleased to hear from Vice-President Latorcai, in which he recalled how the previous constitution had spoken about this. Yeah, he gave me the time. We'll give you time to get to work. It doesn't seem to you to be working on merit, it's obvious that someone in a driven democracy is making it up for you, and instead of working here, instead of arguing along the lines of content proposals, you think that a paper can handle the government structure. Thank you very much.
u2014-05-13-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, As no further speakers have made themselves known, the general debate is closed. As my vice-president indicated at the beginning of the debate, in view of the urgent discussion, the deadline for the submission of amendments expired now at 5:53 p.m. I'll ask if anyone on the part of the authors wants to respond to what has been said. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion phase of the proposal has been opened. The detailed discussion will be conducted by the judicial committee as designated committee, and no committee as associated committee has indicated its intention to conduct a detailed debate. I would like to inform you that the Justice Committee is now conducting a detailed debate in Room 61 of the main floor. Members of the committee, please ensure your quorum. Following a detailed discussion by the Commission, the second reading of the proposal, including the decision, is expected to take place at the next meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. No one came forward to speak after today's agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 26 May 2014 at 13 a.m. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:54 p.m.]]
