u2014-12-23-2-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 3rd Winter Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Nándor Gúr will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, On behalf of the government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech on behalf of the Government. The Minister has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak to you about the China-Eastern-Central-Europe Summit that took place in Belgrade last week, in which the Prime Minister of Central Europe and China met for the third time; a total of 16 Central and Eastern European countries were involved in this cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, The changes in the world economy and world politics have fundamentally revalued Europe's location and position, and in this situation shutting down would be an extremely wrong answer. We see it in Europe's interest to build strategic and close cooperation with the fastest growing regions in the world. This, of course, does not invent Spanish wax, as all strong economic operators outside Europe are looking for cooperation with the fastest growing regions. Ladies and gentlemen, We therefore believe that any cooperation, whether regional or bilateral, which strengthens the relationship between China and Europe, is in the European interest. It is therefore in Europe's interest that cooperation between China and Hungary, China and the Central and Eastern European region be as close and effective as possible. Accordingly, in terms of the strategy and interests of Hungary and the Central European region, I think it is good news that our strategic interests coincide with China's strategy. China has started to increase its investments abroad. I think it is in Central Europe and Hungary's interest to attract as many of these Chinese investments as possible, which not only represent a high level of technological standards, but also create a significant number of new jobs. Trade relations between Hungary and China have improved well in recent years. According to the first ten-month data published today, our country's exports to China increased by 8.3 percent this year, an increase of 140 million dollars. Of course, we also need to take into account China's strategic objective that a significant proportion of Chinese goods intended to be transported to Europe will arrive in Greek ports and move from there to Western Europe. Therefore, there has been a clear competition in our region about the direction Chinese goods arriving in Greek ports are moving towards Western Europe. In this respect, a major event took place in Belgrade, where we signed the agreement between the governments of Serbia, Hungary and China, according to which we will implement the railway line between Budapest and Belgrade with Chinese construction and financing support and engagement. With this agreement and, in particular, its implementation, we can practically answer the question of the fastest and most effective route to travel, the transit route of Chinese goods from Greek ports to Western Europe. It is in Hungary's interest that this transit route leads through us, and we can benefit from it. With this agreement, we are now one step closer to this situation. Overall, we are talking about the renovation of a 374-kilometer railway track, which is expected to have a budget of around $3 billion. According to the agreement, the Chinese party also prepares the feasibility plan and the financing agreement. According to our plans and preliminary negotiations, the Chinese party offers financing for 85 percent of the costs of the construction, and the financing conditions will be in line with the level of localisation we can achieve, i.e. to what extent Hungarian and Serbian companies will be able to participate in this serious construction work. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, In the absence of the Prime Minister of Greece, but with the agreement of the Prime Minister, an agreement was reached between Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary and China to continue the corridor of transport between Budapest and Belgrade in the southern direction towards the Greek ports. To this end, the Chinese party has also gained cooperation and agreement between Macedonia and Greece, which means that our country can benefit from the Chinese strategy from the fact that China and Europe's economic-commercial cooperation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's evolving. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-2	The factions have the opportunity to speak in a two-minute time frame. DemeterMárta, a representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is that we, too, consider economic relations with China to be extremely important, and it is clear that we are expressing our hope that in the future they will be able to continue to develop and will have the better results, as this is in the interests of the country, of all Hungarian people. But overall, the rhetoric that the government is constantly following about the effectiveness of the Eastern opening is not supported by any meaningful figures, statistics or job creation. This road is completely wrong. And that is exactly what the Minister said, that shutting down is a particularly bad solution and a bad policy, so this is what they should be facing, because it is the Hungarian government that completely shuts down Hungary, which separates Hungary from all possibilities in the middle of Europe, constantly lying its own interests to national interests, thus exposing Hungarian people to the future of Hungarian foreign policy. I think that the federal system in which we are in should be important, compared to this, we see that the EU symbols and often the Hungarian national flag cannot be present in the Chamber or in the House of Representatives. I think that this is a disgrace in Europe. So as long as the government follows the policy of shutting down, there is absolutely no need for any childish foreign policy explanation and absolutely no need to handle any kind of doorknob with international organizations. I think, Minister - and I say this to all Members - that they should have been here at 8:00 in the morning to face the opinion of the opposition About the outrageous toll and face up to protesters [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] on the shameful toll and face the protestors (The President indicated the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell). Those who constantly draw attention to this. It's a shame what you're doing! (Applause in the lines of MSZP. )
u2014-12-23-2-4	Mr. András Schiffer Group Leader, on behalf of the LMP. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2014-12-23-2-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We're probably watching another movie, and we can't be happy for this so-called success. First of all, I expect the Hungarian government to act in Belgrade for the arrest of dozens of European citizens and human rights activists during your summit protesting the persecution of the Falun Gong religious community. In the same way, Hungary and the Central European States can be expected to act at each Chinese trial to protect the Community rights of Tibetans and the Uighurs. Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, The global representation of human rights is not merely an emotional, aesthetic issue, I think that Hungary has a fundamental national interest. For example, Hungary can gain allies to protect the collective rights of autonomy in Szeklerland and of Hungarian minority groups at all, if it measures with equal standards, especially when it comes to eastern dictatorships. You have negotiated with the largest dictatorship in the East in Belgrade. 2. It doesn't matter how we deal with China's harsh human rights violation, because this dictatorship leads us straight to China's leadership today in how to destroy working conditions, how to win a downward price competition. The downward price competition and the destruction of the environment and labour law conditions also threaten Hungarian workers, threatening that cheap dumping products will push local producers out of Hungary. South Europe is a strategic ally of Central and Eastern Europe. Long-distance trade of 10,000 kilometres will sooner or later destroy the planet; on the other hand, if we, Mr Foreign Minister, were to think of political allies, then Eastern Central Europe and South Europe would have a place in Latin America, there would be our political allies. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] in order to enforce our interests against the Central Countries. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-6	Now it's time for KDNP's representative, Mr. Imre Vejkey, please.
u2014-12-23-2-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your report. KDNP is pleased to note that our relationship with China is becoming stronger not only in cultural, commercial and particularly economic terms. On the part of KDNP, it is very important that we have a very good relationship with neighbouring countries, including Serbia. We believe that this economic cooperation will strengthen these relations. We also consider it extremely important that the silk route that went through Hungary once again should not avoid Hungary, but should be an important station, where Chinese products not only arrive in Hungary, but can also be further processed if necessary, in this context, it is clear that it is a job-creating investment and a GDP-enhancing activity. Thank you again, Minister, for your reply. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Interventions from the opposition: What answer? It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-8	Martin Gyöngyösi is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your report. A party that has put the policy of eastern opening into the Hungarian public and which is one of the cornerstones of its foreign policy is the Eastern opening policy, we welcome all the types of cooperation that are directed towards China. We believe it is a joy to hear that the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was released from the time capsule into which it was forced 24 years ago at the time of the change of regime. We are very pleased that you have noticed that China is also an important player in the multipolar world order, and that the treaties with China do offer us an important opportunity, but only if the treaties that we conclude, including this treaty, are transparent and are created in favour of enforcing our national interests. We must eliminate the policy that we have pursued over the past 24 years, in which we have served ourselves to the Western economic hegemony, and let our own country be devastated by Western economic interests. So yes, this treaty is also an opportunity, please strive to ensure that this happens in a transparent way, and, based on mutual benefits, it is necessary to eliminate the period in which we suffer the disadvantages, taking into account Hungarian national interests, but the benefits are different. And perhaps this negotiation also highlighted the fact that it would be time, after 24 years, to establish a common voice in Central and Eastern Europe - and in this, Hungary - in which we can share a common voice with the great powers, the various major countries and cooperation organisations of the world. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] V4 did not play this role; it would be very important for this type of cooperation to be established in Central and Eastern Europe with the role of Hungary, with the guidance of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-10	Finally, Member L. Simon László responds on behalf of Fidesz.
u2014-12-23-2-11	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation on behalf of the Fidesz faction. I think that what the Minister has said is contrary to the way that Mrs Demeter interpreted it. Congresswoman Demeter has just stated in Parliament that we cannot support the alleged success propaganda with numbers. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Madam Member, you should have paid attention, Minister Szijjártó has said specific things. He reported on the railway construction agreement our country has concluded [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What railway?]] Minister told us about the percentage of our exports to China, both in percentage and in euro, how much profit, how much additional revenue this represents for the Hungarian economy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, You say here, this morning, and at today's meeting of the Legislative Committee, which I attended, that we will not face you. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] And that we won't face the electorate. Ladies and gentlemen, On the other hand, the truth is that we face the electorate, face you and face the protestors. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: And the Chinese Communist Party!]] We have the ability to change. When people went out on the street, we realized that we couldn't introduce a modification of the telecom tax in the form we had planned. We face the voters, we are able to correct them; however, you have proved today, even with your morning hack campaign, that you cannot face reality, that you cannot face political reality. When the Secretary of State tells us of another success, you have come up with your ignominious political action this morning against finally facing your own responsibility. Thank you for the report, Minister, the Fidesz faction supports your work. [[Zoltán Gőgös to Péter Szijjártó: Relax! Applause in the pro-government benches. Noise.]] [[12.30]]
u2014-12-23-2-12	Dear Parliament, Today's agenda... I'll wait for Novak's First to calm down. Thank you. So today, Mr Attila Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP, asked for a speech before the agenda: "Who do you represent? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of an outrageous political action, such as Parliament's meeting, honourable Secretary of State, allow me to welcome before the agenda the Members of the Parliament of the Fidesz-KDNP in this Chamber. Thank you for making it clear today to the whole country who you represent here in Parliament. It was not important for you to come to your workplace this morning and vote in favour of the MSZP's proposal to prohibit the government from imposing a new tribute on its voters by extending the toll. Allow me to welcome, by name, the parliamentary representatives of the people on the affected section: Mónika Dunai, János Fónay, László Kucsák, Tamás László Kucsák, Antal Rogán, Attila Attila Szatmáry, Kristóf Varga Mihály, Imre Vas and Simicskó István from Budapest, András Aradszki, László Földi, Péter Harrach, Zoltán Bóna, Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, Zsolt Czerván György, Sándor Hadházy, Károly Pánczél, Tibor Pogácszás, Lajos Szűcs, Lás Tuzson, László László Vécsey from the county of Pest, Pérvár-Mó Péter, János Mószér-Mosztátér, Zsoltváros Cs, Bertalomás Czunyi, Bertalomás Czunyi Bertal, Szenyényyényi Bertal, Környi Bertal, Környi Bertal, Kör, Zzunyi Bertal, Kör, Zzunyi Bertal, Környi Bertal, Körziéps, Kös, Kö, Kös, Kös, Kös, Kös, Völcs, Kös, Kös, Köz-E, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Kögy-E, Kögy-E, Kögy-E, Völgy, Köszter-E, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Köszter-Eszter, Kös, Kös, Kös, Köszter, Kögs, Kögs, Kögs, Köz-Eszter-Egy-Egy [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] They are the ones who, when they go home, will certainly explain to the people in their own single-member constituency how much better they will be to pay for what they did not have to pay for. [[Dr. István Nagy: Instead of 42,000 so far, 5 thousand!]] That they could pay 5 thousand forints in the future to go to work, to buy, to take their children to school or kindergarten. That wasn't important to you this morning, but here you are. Here you are, because, instead of the will and interest of your constituents, the re-acceptance of the government's misdemeanor laws seems to be important. And before we listen to the opposition keep quiet, because you have won the election three times this year, I would like to warn you that this was the case until October. Since then, you've lost nearly a million voters, and we beat you to 50.30 in the Újpest interim election. [[L. Simon László: And now you have a majority!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I want you to understand that this is about you. They must decide whether to represent their voters or Viktor Orbán even against their voters. Many of you may view Viktor Orbán as a god, but believe me, he is not. He's a man, and he's a weakling. He is a good tactician, he has been lucky many times, and he has also benefited from the global economic crisis, which all governments in Europe have failed regardless of their political side. But that doesn't make him infallible, and he seems to have lost his remaining relationship with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, It's all gonna end someday. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You already know that.]] Viktor Orbán's reign now seems sooner rather than later. [[Zoltán Lukács: You know him too!]] And the celebrations that are about to begin give you a great opportunity to think about how far you will go on this journey: whether you will remain the marionette figures of one-man power or the parliamentary representatives of your constituents. Time is rushing, and you and him are headed for the ravine. For this I wish you blessed, peaceful holidays. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-23-2-14	Before I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow members of the Government to their choice, to wait for some of the opposition's representatives to rise to the level of their behaviour so far, or to your descent. I wouldn't recommend the latter to you. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] I ask you to continue to try to listen quietly to the opposition representatives as you have more or less succeeded so far. [[Zoltán Lukács: Listen to the veterans!]] Secretary of State, please.
u2014-12-23-2-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, [[Noise.]] Allow me to tell you and the public of this country what the people listed by my fellow Member represent, what they stand behind and stand behind with their opinions on professional and social policy.
u2014-12-23-2-16	Congressman Haughty, please shut up. Thank you very much. [[Noise.]] Here you go. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's how veterans talk!]]
u2014-12-23-2-17	The political and representatives of these people are responsible for helping to regulate tolls throughout the country according to uniform principles. These people want to help make tolls affordable for all and everywhere in the country. They aim to help the charging principles comply with the European general environmental requirement that the user pays. And they are working to promote these rules so that faster, safer, more environmentally friendly motorways can be used as widely as possible. To this end, the government will introduce the county vignette system in the next period, resulting in the purchase of the 43,000 HUF annual lease, which is less than 3 per cent so far, instead of a sticker, people are entitled to use the full comfort expressway in the county every year for 5 thousand HUF per year. Practically, this means that who lives, say, two counties away - for example in Székesfehérvár - can come to Budapest regularly with two county tickets, i.e. for 10 thousand forints a year. [[Zoltán Lukács: Now it's free!]] There have been users of motor vehicles who have so far avoided motorways - and they are usually called professional traffic users, so they use their cars for a short time in the morning and evening - because they were not worth the 43,000 forints toll and were on the side roads towards their destination. This system changes fundamentally and allows these people to use the highest level of comfort as widely as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, At the professional meetings before the creation of the Government Decree, we sat down with professional organisations, interest organisations and the mayors of Budapest and Pest County most affected on the subject. Yes, more than half of these free motorways are in Pest County; not in Szabolcs, not in Baranya, not in Békés, not in Győr, but in Pest County. It's obvious that Pest County is the most involved in this. But at the same time - and this must be said here in front of you and the public of the country - there are many settlements in Pest county that are better off using the county ticket than the current so-called free-of-charge, but far-reaching sections of the road are not available free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, This uniform system helps to ensure that residents of the country do not receive the right to use motorways with everyone's money and public burdens according to their place of residence. This makes it general, this makes it uniform, and this makes this use so principled, which I believe will be a solution in the closer and further future. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, When you are unworthy, please note that this single system of salvation for all means the price of two scoops of ice cream per month. That's why you're yelling. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-18	Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP, also applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of the Violent Law Factory. Here you go, Congressman. [[12.40]]
u2014-12-23-2-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I think that there would be enough room for us to register: this meeting would probably not have taken place if the government hadn't run amok, by the way. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] The two Heads of State letters were born because the government is unable to comply with the legislative laws created by the current two-thirds majority. Dear Parliament, The legislative law adopted by the House in 2010 is the 2010 CXXX. Law 17 clearly requires it to do so. In its section on the need to carry out an impact assessment, which examines, on the one hand, all the relevant effects of the proposed legislation, the social, economic, budgetary, environmental and health impacts. Whether, this morning, during the meeting initiative that Fidesz failed, State Secretary Fónagy or last week, State Secretary Zoltán Kovács said that there was no need for impact assessments; or, if there is an impact assessment, he will not present it to the Honourable Parliament. The thing is, you've been in constant violation of the law, not just of the two returned laws, but of the last few months, since the fact that there has been no faction government. But let's keep going. The other legislative law, the 2010 CXXXI. Act 5. Article 5 of the Act also clearly stipulates that the legislation prepared by the Government must be submitted for social consultation. Secretary of State, it is not generally necessary to talk about professional partners. When we think of social consultation, we do not mean big capital, we do not mean kissers and different lobbyists, but, where appropriate, when it comes to jobs of commercial workers, trade unions must be consulted. The institution of social dialogue must be restored. Social consultation does not mean that you are assessing which capital needs to be put in place. That's not social consultation, that's the hush-hush you're doing behind closed doors. The government must account for the impact assessment it has carried out in relation to the expected effects of its submission and the social partners it has consulted with each bill before the Parliament. Social partners are not capital. Social consultation means that, where appropriate, trade unions can be properly negotiated. Dear Parliament, The situation is that, where appropriate, in the context of the legislative process, the legislative law is repeatedly violated, for example, the paying M0, and this is a violation of constitutional objectives and values, so in this case the proposal is unconstitutional. That is why we have today turned to the Ombudsman to send the submission of the paid M0 to the Constitutional Court. There have been several violations or failure to comply with the procedural rules on legislation, thereby endangering the interests of future generations guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. Dear Parliament, In recent months, there would have been a legislative obligation for a responsible government, because when Hungary's foreign policy positions were threatened by certain corruption charges, we should have brought before the House laws that clearly and radically reflect corruption pressure, such as legislation. Compared to this, LMP's proposals on how to increase transparency in public procurement, for example, how to remove offshore knights from Hungary, and how to close at least part of the money pump, you swept them off the table without trial. When we re-submit the proposal for the NAV investigation committee to follow up on the various allegations, the government is not simply trying to get away with the matter with communication tricks, the Judicial Committee has been parking this investigation initiative in a house-breaking manner for weeks, allegedly because the Fidesz fraction is unable to form a position. Shame, shame! Your legislative policy is clear. They choose an eligible target, protection of juvenile health, reduction of multinationals, selection of an obnoxious market [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That's the tobacco market, and they're making a law for public market robbery. That is what your legislation is all about. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-20	Mr Robert Répássy, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, You gave your speech before the agenda the title of the lawbreaker. As a reason for his speech before the agenda, he indicated the laws sent back by the President of the Republic. In this speech, we have had little mention of this, but I would like to inform you that out of 72 laws this year, the President of the Republic has used his veto rights for a total of two laws. Between 2010 and 2014, 21 out of 859 laws made use of their veto rights. This means that less than 3 percent of the President of the Republic has returned laws. [[There's a lot of noise in the opposition factions.]] Between 2010 and 2014, two more laws were sent to prior standard control. If we look only at the aspect chosen by you, I have to say that 97 percent of the laws created by Parliament passed through his filter, which pleases the President of the Republic, so 97 percent of the laws were created by Parliament in accordance with the legislative procedure. I would like to add, as you have been told several times in Parliament today, to the opposition parties, the State Secretarys of the relevant wallets, that the toll regulation in question is a ministerial decree, so Parliament does not even legislate on it. So your objections and criticisms are completely wrong about legislation, while, in fact, they are regulated by a ministerial decree. Of course, this is why it is a political bluff that has been brought before Parliament here. After all, the Ministry of National Economy or the Ministry of National Development would be most competent to deal with these issues. Honourable Congressman, The National Assembly elected in 2010 adopted the 2010 CXXXI on the proposal of the Government. Act on social participation in the preparation of legislation and a ministerial regulation on ex-ante and ex-post impact assessments. The rules of this, and therefore the rules of the legislative law, are always respected by the ministries, and in all cases there is consultation in the legislation prepared by the ministries. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that professional consultation, stakeholder consultation and political consultation were also carried out before the decision was taken. On 21 November 2014, NFM and professional organisations, including Fuvos and Wáberer Group, agreed. After that, interest-representation consultations took place, on 12 December with the Hungarian Car Club, on 13 December with the National Association of Automotive Dealers, the National Association of Drivers' Teachers and Training Bodies, the National Transporter Industry Board of Private Entrepreneurs, the National Association of Carriers, the Association of Hungarian Road Transporters, representatives of the so-called Grand Coalition of Cars. On 15 December 2014, a meeting was held with the mayors of the wallet and the metropolitan and Pest county, some of the rural settlements concerned. So, in total, at least 20-25 organisations were consulted by the government before the wallet made that decision. Your criticisms are not justified, there has been an explicit social consultation on this issue and a professional consultation has taken place. That's when the National Assembly decided about it. And let me also say that, as a Member of Parliament in Miskolc, I am very pleased that the Miskolcs will not be able to go to Budapest for 43,000 forints a year, but for a maximum of 15 thousand forints, as they will reach Budapest by purchasing three freeway stickers. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-22	Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go. [[12.50]]
u2014-12-23-2-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, It would be very difficult to choose a problem from many of the country's serious problems, but if it were to be done, I would now highlight corruption. I could say that the plague of Hungarian public life may be corruption, which has not been resolved in the last 25 years. It has a lot of negative effects. It damages the budget, thereby giving the government and the Parliament less leeway. It scares away investments, businesses. It destroys fair competition, honest businesses, strengthens the black economy. He's ruining the tax morale, because the one-time man says that if the fish stinks of his head, they're stealing my money up here, then why would I pay taxes? It undermines the credibility of public life, weakens social morale, the possibility of social cohesion. And let me give you another example in which corruption is damaging, a new phenomenon: a national security risk. At the moment, I cannot rule out the possibility that certain representatives of the government or certain persons close to the government would be blackmailed by both domestic and foreign circles in corruption cases. We can say that corruption is the common denominator of the last 25 years, a common denominator across governments. If you need a change of regime somewhere - in many places - definitely here. Let's just say it slowly so everyone understands that everyone's been stealing for the last 25 years, the Fidesz has been stealing and the MSZP has also been stealing. The competition between Fidesz and the MSZP has not been about who is decent and who is not, but who is less dirty. Who's less corrupt? The competition was more about who could better investigate his dirty business about the other one and spread it around the press. Meanwhile, there was also competition in who knows how to operate their own small corruption channels and pumps more invisible and undetectable at the expense of Hungarian society. Then, if something bad happened, then came the principle of "hand-washing," and then the cases were scrubbed. In this situation, it would be very simple to say that Fidesz is stolen, MSZP is stolen, and Jobbik is clean. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's the way it is, but I know that right now it's nothing but a state. In fact, this condition becomes a merit when Jobbik comes to government, he's going to govern, it's not that far away, and I'm going to be able to say the Jobbik remains clean, unlike you. But regardless, we are striving for it, and I think it is the responsibility of the current government, the current government, that it should also strive for it. Because as party leaders, as members of the government, as heads of government, what framework we have laid down, what rules we make for minimising the effects of corruption, the possibility of corruption, and limiting it in Hungary. In this, I feel that there is still much to be done. At the moment, if we look at the past period, we can see that the various governments are talking about zero tolerance and are talking about corruption now, while they are pouring the contents of one pot into another. The Orbán government has not changed its system in this sense, but has crowned the corruption system of the last 25 years. Allow me to make some suggestions for the remaining two minutes, hoping, in the hope that this may not be a pea on the wall. What we believe Hungarian public life needs, I think, is to establish an anti-corruption minimum level, which is respected by all political forces, and thus to reassure society, because we do not need to reassure each other here with loud speeches, but the Hungarian society, for which politics and corruption have become synonyms in Hungary today. This is a disgrace for the last 25 years, so allow me to make some suggestions to ease this. For example, the first thing we should probably start with is the 10 percent, the 20 percent, and the who knows how many percent systems should finally be eliminated. I am not sure, and I am sure that here, who are now sitting in the Parliamentary Hall, may already have accepted or have accepted 10-20 percent of their environment. This is an unbelievable reflection of Hungarian public life. We have to break up with this. There's no such thing in the good towns. We sent out a positive virus in Hungarian society [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Showing and proving that there is a fair way to politicalize at municipal level. In the good-looking settlements, if you win a tender, you don't have to pay back 10 percent, 20 percent, nothing. What is expected is to do the investment at a good price and to do the work efficiently and fairly. Hopefully this will find followers. But I will give you another example: it would be very important, for example, to make propertyisation investigations operational, either in the case of the Parliament or in the case of members of the government, for example in the case of the new Members of Parliament at the end of the term and at the end of each parliamentary representative at the end of the term. And let me say one more thing for the rest of the half-minute, honourable Members: it is upsetting for people to think that some people are running their assets through the names of family members. Let us make this issue public and conclude this debate once and for all. Let's get everyone's next of kin in the household's declaration out to the public, so let's find this legal opportunity. The Jobbik will do this at the beginning of next year, taking the lead and setting an example for you. It's not just for the better, it's for the good of the whole country, and believe me, it's for your own good, and it's for the government's own good. I'm sure it'll hurt, but then it'll be better. I'm asking you to think about this during the holidays and do as we will at the beginning of next year. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-24	I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2014-12-23-2-25	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In fact, until then, we can agree with you that corruption is extremely harmful, presents a great deal of risk, and that corruption must be combated as effectively as possible. Then I felt like we weren't even sitting in Parliament in this term; it is clear that my good fellow Members have been sitting here in Parliament since 2010 because they are actually not addressing what they have said in the right place. I am surprised to hear such a speech in the Hungarian Parliament without asking the socialists how Gábor Simon paid back 128 million forints to the tax administration. We are still waiting for the answer to this question, which arouses a large part of Hungarian society, from our socialist fellow Members who are fighting corruption. [[Dr. András Schiffer: This way too!]] If you face the voters, if you face the protestors, fellow Members, then [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Then tell me honestly how Gábor Simon paid back 128 million forints to the IRS! Dear colleague vona, I also agree with you that it may pose a national security risk if someone is involved in corruption and is blackmailed with it. At the same time, I must reject as strongly as possible the fact that government actors are involved in this matter. With a calm conscience, I declare to you that there is no member of the Hungarian government, there is no State Secretary in the Hungarian ministries, and there is not a single government representative in the Hungarian Parliament who can be blackmailed by foreign secret services with any corruption. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] Dear fellow Member, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] You should be able to account here for what the KGB is blackmailing Béla Kovács, what the Russian secret service is going to do to you and the relationship between you and the Russians, how they are financing what they have done in recent years. [[Dr. András Schiffer: How's the investigation going?]] The case and case of Béla Kovács clearly proves that you are not honest in this matter either, you have hidden the truth from the voters and you have smeared it. They should have stood up there with the consistency they're suggesting today! Dear fellow Member, We understand the political tactics and the technique that you're saying the Fidesz is also stolen and the MSZP is also stolen. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] But this is a lousy experiment, and you are playing the game, my dear fellow Member Vona, that you are the third force between the two forces once governed. This morning we saw exactly the opposite: when it is in their interest, there is a great coalition. I sat in Parliament at 8:00 a.m. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Then you ran away!]] The good guys and the socialists are really messed up. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We were here, we saw them voting with the socialists again. [[Zoltán Lukács: We were here, you were alone!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I must say to you that whenever you wish in your interest, you will blow a stone with them, when it seems that you can play each other here, the once governor... [[Constant noise from the opposition.]] Congresswoman, please. I'm so...
u2014-12-23-2-26	Mr. Secretary. [[It's ringing.]]
u2014-12-23-2-27	...they're so desperate to get on the government anyway. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: When we're on the wheel!]] I don't think they can keep the word to themselves. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-23-2-28	Mr. Secretary, I'm still the Speaker of the House, you're the Secretary of State. [[Delight from the Betterman's ranks, a round of applause.]] So if you'll allow me, I'll give the floor to the congresswoman when it's her turn. I'm not giving it up yet. There you go. Keep going.
u2014-12-23-2-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm only asking you to help me finish what I have to say. [[Mr. Novak, will you judge the president?]] I didn't criticize the President, I asked him to help me.
u2014-12-23-2-30	Please, fellow Members.
u2014-12-23-2-31	Some distinction should be made between, fellow Members, that someone criticizes the President or asks for his help. I am obliged to ask again for the help of President, because you are simply being unfair in the Parliament. [[It's a rush from Jobbik's ranks.]] And even here before Christmas, they'll keep talking to me. [[There's a constant murmur from the opposition.]] You know what? I'll finish it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]] [[13.00]]
u2014-12-23-2-32	I will wait for my fellow Members to calm down here on the left. [[Zoltán Lukács: I can't do it this year. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] See if I can do it this year. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: We were looking forward to it!]] On behalf of the KDNP: We are preparing for Christmas, he will say his speech, preferably - I hope - in calm conditions before the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-33	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I am convinced that the characters of public life have to leave the scene at times. [[Defiance and interrogations from opposition benches, including Zoltán Lukács: Porond, are in the circus.]] And you need to be able to listen even if you have an opinion that you'd like to say or yell at. [[Continued noise in opposition benches.]] Christmas is coming, and it is not easy to resist the temptation not to get involved in a heated debate, but perhaps this is a time to be a little quiet and try to grasp the message of this festival. [[Zoltán Lukács: What is that we close on Saturday.]] This festival also has a message for the believing man, and there is a message for the unbeliever, but perhaps, if we are sensitive to it, we can grasp something from it for the characters of public life. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] For the believing man, it is obviously the great event of the history of salvation, the embodiment of the message; for all of us - whether we are believers or non-believers - the message of the way that is about how a person's individual life can be happy, if he chooses not the path of selfishness but the way of turning to another. And maybe we, the people of public life, have a specific message. And it is not to speak in the voice of hatred, but to try to look at the aspect of the world's improvement. Now, as we approach Christmas, I wish all Hungarian families a peaceful, merry Christmas, and especially those who are forced to celebrate this day alone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome my fellow Members and give the floor to Mr Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, on the subject of our joint affairs, with the title Fidesz:. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2014-12-23-2-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, on the last parliamentary day of 2013 about the same heated and powerful contributions were made by my opposition fellow Members, only then did my opposition fellow Members look forward to 2014 with great hope. In 2014, however, voters gave three opinions on my opposition colleagues, their parties and their fractions. [[Zoltán Lukács: Like the Goose Matyi.]] Three times in a row, in three successive national elections, and it seems, my fellow Members, that you have not shared your views, and that you have not been entirely considered fit to govern the country. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Stay in this faith!]] The main lesson of 2014, my fellow Members, is that today there is only one governing power in the country, the coalition of Fidesz-KDNP. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition side. Interview from Fidesz: That's right.]] This coalition received the voter's trust throughout the country on 6 April 2014, 25 May 2014 and 12 October 2014. With this confidence, ladies and gentlemen, we must also live in the coming years, but I think that we have proved ourselves in the years 2013 and 14. After all, if we look back at these years, I have to say to you: 2013 and 2014 are the first two years of the Hungarian economy after the crisis in 2007-2008, when Hungary began to rise again. The Hungarian economy began to grow, and in 2014 the growth of the Hungarian economy did not simply exceed the EU average, but in 2014 the growth of the Hungarian economy was the third strongest within the European Union, based on the last quarterly figures. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Beware, Europe!]] Ladies and gentlemen, This was achieved by reducing unemployment from 11 per cent in early 2010 to 7 per cent in 2014. We managed to achieve that in Hungary today there are more people working with 400 thousand people than in 2010 at the time of the change of government. Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth adding that in 2013 and 14 the level of financial deterioration in Hungary has not been so low historically for more than 40 years. It has been achieved by reducing people's overhead costs to nearly zero in 2013 and 14 in all Europe alone in Hungary and, moreover, by reducing inflation to nearly zero percent. Ladies and gentlemen, If this is the way we look at the year 2015, then I think it is quite safe to say that in 2015 the Hungarian families and Hungarian citizens will have the right to hope that economic growth will continue in Hungary. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Even those analysts in London, which are very often critical to us, and even Brussels itself, say that Hungary will again produce much more growth in 2015 than the expected average of the European Union. It should also be added that 2015 is at the same time the year when banks are accounted for, as a result of which there will be significantly more money left over by Hungarian families, since the repayments of each Hungarian family on loans will be significantly reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, It also includes 2015 as a year of wage increases. After all, it is clear that the Hungarian economy will increase wages above inflation, and this includes the fact that, for the first time in the public sector, the salaries of law enforcement workers, soldiers and police officers will increase by around 30 percent in 2015. In addition, the government and the governing parties believed that if the growth of the Hungarian economy allowed this, we would also introduce the social career programme, and this could finally result in a wage increase for those working in the social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, These are common goals that may be worth standing up for at times. 2014 was the year of elections; three consecutive election years, a real election super-year. I believe that's what's important to you, and that after the election defeats, you can stabilize your own parties. All I would like to ask you is that in 2015, when there will not be much, at most interim elections, the country should be important to you at times, fellow Members of the opposition. [[Uproar and interrogations from opposition parties.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State András Tállai.
u2014-12-23-2-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Hungary's economic, financial and budgetary performance in 2014 is recognised at international level. It triggers recognition in the analysts, as they predict positive prospects for Hungary and a positive reclassification for 2015. Indeed, the IMF now recognises that the policy of austerity was not right, and Hungary was the first to make a move and escape from austerity policy. The European Commission does the same when it raises Hungary's 2014 and 15 economic macro indicators. In essence, Hungary's performance is recognised by everyone, only the representatives of opposition parties are criticising it in Hungary. Of course, it is a very big question whether the country can maintain this performance or in a sense increase it in 2015. Because if it succeeds, the country will indeed permanently enter a growth path that will clearly benefit Hungarian families, the Hungarian people. [[13.10]] It is very important that the 2015 budget, which has already been adopted by Parliament, together with the underlying laws and tax laws, fully serves to bring our economic performance in 2015 closer to 2014 and to bring us to the forefront of Europe with our 2015 performance. It is very important that the fiscal deficit policy that the Fidesz government has been pursuing since 2010 is continuing, resulting in our release from the excessive deficit procedure. Everyone clearly recognises that the 2015 budget will also meet the EU's demand for a deficit below 3 per cent. Everyone recognises the performance that, not only has the debt stopped in Hungary, but is now on a declining path. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What?!]] And it is commendable that inflation policy, which is also in line with the inflation rates in the EU countries, is a way of keeping low inflation, which clearly has a positive impact on family life. And of course, the most important thing is the economic growth that the country can achieve. The government has made every decision. Basically, the favourable low-key income tax system has been maintained; corporate taxation has a tax rate of 10 and 19 per cent, while personal income tax is uniquely the one-key, 16 per cent tax in Europe. It is very important that Hungary takes advantage of the fact that in 2015 two more cycles of EU funding will arrive in the country, since the 2007-2013 cycle will be completed, but in financial terms, the country will still receive funding and the 2014-2020 budget support system will be launched, and therefore it will cost HUF 2500 billion to the economy, which will significantly increase the performance of construction and industrial production, thereby affecting the performance of the economy as a whole. It is very important that families will have a predictable year 2015, because, as Mr. Group leader said, the results of the reductions will be further enjoyed by the Hungarian families; the issue of foreign exchange lenders will finally be settled in a satisfactory manner, banks will be accounted for, customers will be accounted for, and the exchange rate risk will be eliminated by the remaining repayments and reduced repayments. It is very important that the family tax policy of the Hungarian government is predictable, which clearly strengthens family tax incentives, supports families that raise children. Hungary is going to rise in 2015 in a very clear way. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This is András Schiffer reporting in order of business. [[Dr. András Schiffer stands up.]] And obviously Mr. András Schiffer knows the house rules. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's right!]] that, until there is an agreed agenda, there is no point of order. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not true.]] Have a seat. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Dr. András Schiffer sits down.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik and Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik applied for the speech after today's agenda. Dear Parliament, I declare that Antal Rogán and another 45 Members, together with the necessary supporting signatures, will be included in the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. Under § (1) of the Act, a special meeting of the Parliament was initiated at 12 a.m. today. President János Áder returned two approved laws for consideration. Leader Antal Rogán and other Members have proposed that they be discussed and decided on today. You can find out about their initiative on the website. Dear Parliament, Setting the agenda for our next meeting. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President for speaking time limits. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I am now giving the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group, on the order of business.
u2014-12-23-2-39	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to say that the Rules of the House are 19th. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, any Member may make a point of order on the agenda at any time for a period of one minute. That's what I was trying to do at 8:40 a.m. and now. Dear Parliament, On the day of today, opposition representatives with an agenda of H/2403. a meeting was initiated on a proposal for a decision. A new initiative on the part of the pro-government representatives was subsequently received. The house rules on this issue are unclear. I've listened to the House Committee's pro-government argument, which is basically one of those hocians! He rested on grounds, as was the case with Katalin Szili, the Speaker of the House. Now, what MSZP and Fidesz are messing with each other is of little interest to us, but I'm more interested in the fact that it's elementary... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Mr President,
u2014-12-23-2-40	Excuse me, Mr. Group Leader. You know the house rules, Mr. Group Leader. It's in the house rules, you have to make a point of order in a minute. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I would like to make a point of order. Intercom from the pro-government benches: Sit down!]] This didn't happen. Have a seat. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] And please turn to the order committee, Mr. Chief of Staff. Dear Parliament, There will now be a debate on the laws sent back to consideration, and then decisions will take place at the earliest from 14.30 a.m. I give you the floor, Mr. Chief Schiffer will return to you in order of business. Please state your proposal in a minute. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I will!]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-41	My point of order would be for the President to order a vote on H/2403. The House should also decide on the inclusion of a proposal for a resolution. What I just said was to support the fact that there has already been a valid meeting initiative for this day, nothing precludes the House from deciding on the discussion of this proposal for a resolution and the preparation of the agenda. I would like to point out that the Rules of the House expressly provide that, in the event of indecision, this can be decided at the next meeting. The way I appreciate it - in the absence of precise house rules - is that in the last few hours, government representatives wandering the corridor have been looking for housekeeping. I myself saw Louis Kósa come in at eight o'clock, for example. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-42	Thank you very much. Mr. Fraction Manager [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I will not order a vote. You should have made that proposal an hour ago. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: But he would not allow it!]] Dear Parliament, LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment, adopted by the Parliament on 9 December 2014, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. The debate on the legislative report and the proposal for an amendment to the Act amending the legislation to authorise certain commercial structures, to enforce their sustainability aspects. To the President of the Republic... [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to ask the representatives of the government. [[The president's ringing again.]] I want you to listen to me for a second. [[13.20]] Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/1995/13. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/1995/14 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/1995/16. by serial number T/1995/17. can be found on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available, with a maximum of eight minutes for the majority and a maximum of seven minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed today the T/1995 sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. It submitted a bill amending the law in order to authorise certain commercial structures and to enforce their sustainability aspects, and submitted 24 proposals and a summary report amending them with yes and 10 non-voting votes. At the committee's meeting, criticisms were raised by the opposition about the bill as a whole, but they did not contain anything new compared to what was said in the general debate. On the basis of the house rules, I would like to say, as the chairman of the committee did, that the Legislative Committee has the opportunity to propose amendments only in the context of the contested provisions. I would add that even the provisions which the President of the Republic complained about in the general debate did not seem to be of concern to the opposition, nor did he indicate any objections to us, so that our work was not facilitated. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms from the same place, among them: Are you serious? Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Don't say that!]] Amendment tabled by the Committee... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The amendment submitted by the Committee was therefore proposed by the President of the Republic T/1995/14. The President of the Republic shall submit a proposal for amendments to the provisions contested by the President of the Republic in the light of his letter sent back for consideration. Accordingly, the amending proposal eliminates the possibility of suspending the procedure of the Government Office, while setting a deadline for its procedure, taking into account the time needed for the Commission's opinion to be obtained in the procedure; on the other hand, it will bring forward the establishment of the Committee to 15 January 2015 in order to carry out the procedures as soon as possible. In addition, the amendment provides a transitional rule for the examination of any applications submitted in connection with the application of the new legislative authorisation rules during the period prior to its entry into force. It should be noted here that this proposal does not create any problems with coherence, since it is only a special transitional provision under which the authority, as in other cases, may deviate from the procedure. I would like to point out that the amending proposal does not include clarification of the committee's considerations of discretion, because in the bill there was a mandate for a government regulation, so that detailed Commission considerations are not laid down in the law. It should be noted that the bill also refers to the environmental, transport and urban development aspects which will be governed by the Government in detail in the relevant regulation when assessing the application for a professional contribution. If, therefore, the House supports the amending proposal before us, we can adopt the bill in accordance with the objectives of the original proposal, but in full compliance with the constitutional criteria. I call for the support of this House. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Vecsey. The minority opinion will now be presented within a seven-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Attila Harangozó, MSZP.
u2014-12-23-2-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, on behalf of the opposition, allow us to apologize to the ruling parties for breaking this law, for really apologizing that we did this wrong and for adopting it wrong; mea culpa. We are talking about the law amending the law on the formation and protection of the built environment to allow certain commercial structures and to enforce sustainability aspects, simply known as the law called mallstop. This bill was adopted by Parliament on 9 December, and its provisions would enter into force on 1 January. The President of the Republic considered the law adopted to be of concern in several respects, so he sent it back to the Hungarian Parliament for consideration. We are witnessing this great consideration here today, by the way. The first point in which the President of the Republic expressed his opinion and his concerns is the fact that the Act which entered into force on 1 January 2015 provides for the obtaining of the opinion of a committee which, also on the basis of this Act, is not possible before 1 February 2015 due to the legal vacuum. The second is that the provisions of the Act on General Rules of Administrative Procedure and Service are applicable to both the administrative authority and the administrative procedure, although the Act adopted provides for the suspension of the administrative procedure by Ket. makes it possible to do so contrary to its relevant rules. And here is the point: given the minimum 60 days of suspension, according to the President, this regulation does not guarantee the right to fair administration for customers. Finally, the law does not define the criteria for considering the Commission's opinion in the administrative procedure, and the President also attaches a guarantee to this. This is what we heard from the Secretary of State at the TAB's meeting today that there was no law in life that could have been introduced by the government at the time of its adoption; this seems to be a strong argument. Let's see what the government has brought in today in the form of TAB's amendment proposals. The first problem, namely, that the law will enter into force on January 1, is that the committee, which should be consulted, will not be established until a month later - and there is obviously a legal gap here - is the great solution that you have found that the establishment of February 1 is required for January 15. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that nothing has been solved. From a legal point of view, whether there is a legal vacuum of 30 days or only 15 days in the law, the point is that at the time of the entry into force of the law - which the head of state complained about - the conditions for implementing the law are not met, so you have not solved anything in the world. We also drew your attention at the committee meeting to the fact that, as one of the political reasons for the swift adoption of the law, Fidesz's leadership said that this was necessary in order to avoid costly lawsuits, long lawsuits, or possibly the applicants, suing the Hungarian State, should not bring damages actions against the Hungarian State. Believe me, this is also one of the most important parts of the debate of today's bill: that the Hungarian Parliament adopts such lousy laws, sooner or later, someone will pay the price, of course, not those pro-government Members who vote for it. This proposal still does not exclude this possibility, honourable Members, for example because the specific regulation intended for the judge in Gyev, so to say, with regard to the deadline - that matters will only have to be dealt with as of 1 February, although the law will enter into force on 1 January - is clearly contrary to the law on administrative proceedings, which states that the office must deal with the matter on a substantive basis on the day after the receipt of the request. [[13.30]] So the point is that it is not excluded that the applicants may sue the State in the future because of the non-criticisation of the application made in January, and that the Hungarian State may face long, costly damages lawsuits for your bad legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, There is still no response, there is still no answer in substance as to why local communities' right to decide on the type of building, the type of commercial unit and the extent to which they intend to authorise in their own territory. After all, the substance and substance of this bill is that you are handing this decision right into the hands of the President of the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office. They still can't give a sound reason why they don't think he's so grown up, why they don't consider the people, officials and local governments there to be so partners that they decide on the spot. There is still no answer to today's amendment on what will prevent these lawsuits, since none of the fundamental reasons for the President of the Republic's veto or return to consideration are properly treated. Yes, this haste, this day will show you what it means to you if the President of the Republic asks you to consider a law. You know, the word "to consider" has a meaning. What we see here today is everything, just not consideration, that's for sure. Today, the opposition has continued to strongly indicate that there are serious legislative errors in this law. This is where I am telling the record so that the criticism that we have not spoken in due time cannot once again reach the opposition: my fellow Members of the Government, this law remains inapplyable, unenforceable, and the state may face serious lawsuits if it is adopted in the form of the present. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-12-23-2-46	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[L. Simon László: No.]] No wish, signifies Secretary of State L. Simon László. Thank you. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There will be no two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács, MSZP.
u2014-12-23-2-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen. The President of the Republic has returned the law on the so-called mallstop for consideration. The institution of the President of the Republic should be so respected that if he returned a law for consideration, he did not send it back for re-acceptance within two days, but indeed for consideration. It does not appear here that the adoption of this law is the subject of any consideration on the part of the government or of the governing parties. What's it about? This legislation is about the fact that 300 commercial buildings, now more than 400 square meters, can only be built if the government commissioner in Hajdú-Bihar County grants permission to do so in one person. We've argued about this quite a lot. We have repeatedly asked why they think that Róbert Rácz, the government commissioner of Hajdú-Bihar County, should decide in one person whether a commercial building with a gross surface area of more than 400 square metres in any settlement can be built, rebuilt or constructed. Róbert Rácz, government commissioner, head of the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County, is an English-historical teacher, which is the least of his problems, because teachers in both public administration and politics have very, very many times put significant performance on the table. However, I do not think that this was a great idea, that whatever the profession of this government commissioner should be, in one person, such permissions should be given to him. They are once again removing powers and powers from the municipalities, although the municipalities have not been able to show such mistrust of them or think that they themselves cannot decide on these matters. Why does the head of the government office of Hajdú-Bihar County know better in one person in Debrecen whether it is good in the other side of the country, let's say Sopron if the commercial unit of more than 400 square meters is built or not? Why do they give a person such permissions, and why do they take it away from local governments? The municipal authorities have stood up, the community there has chosen a mayor, an elected body of representatives. This mayor and the body of representatives have appointed senior officials, transformed offices in such a way since the election, and they do their work in a fair manner, honest officials, highly likely largely competent, dedicated people, who we have no reason to believe are not in possession of the knowledge and commitment to make these decisions in the life of their own settlement. Once again, there's no reason, no reason to take these rights away. The settlements have their planning, their various development plans. In many settlements, there are planning councils, civil society organisations are involved in many settlements, large-time architects and designers are involved, they form working groups and discuss and decide how to form the settlement. I am sure that in all settlements the representatives and leaders know what is good for the settlement, they obviously also ask their voters' opinions, if any, and they can decide whether or not a particular building should be built there. You take these rights away from these people, by the way, that, as they have often said, they have largely won the municipal elections, in most settlements there is the mayor of Fidesz, in most settlements there is a fidesz majority of local governments. You do not trust your own people, so you say that the mayors led by Fidesz, the municipal leaders, are not fit to decide whether or not a commercial unit larger than 400 square meters will be built in their own settlement. That's your opinion of your own politicians. I think that even Fidesz politicians should have more confidence in this. You're worried about protecting the environment. Believe me, the inhabitants of the settlements, the inhabitants and the leaders of a given settlement must be as concerned about protecting the built environment as you are, and I am sure that otherwise the local communities would not do anything and would not allow buildings to endanger it. They know exactly what fits there and what doesn't fit there. I also do not think that you, by the way, have to make an economic decision on this matter. Obviously, those who start such an investment are also conducting market research, obviously where there is no demand for it, they will not build such a building, where there is a demand for it, and why, from the county of Hajdú-Bihar, Rácz Róbert should decide whether or not such a building can be built in Nyíregyháza, Sopron, Tatabánya or anywhere. It's completely unwarranted! Then why is it that you want to do this in one hand? [[Dr. András Schiffer: What do you think?]] I'm afraid it's because we're back to the fact that you're trying to interfere with these developments with my brother's and his methods. We are afraid that, again, the same as in trade-related matters, as in land-related matters, now they want to keep this decision in the hands of both the mall and the commercial units. You want to decide, as a godfather, who to build, where to build, and how to build. Rácz will have to make his contribution to Róbert Rácz - as an anointed licensor - and then it will depend on his goodwill who, in Hungary, may or may not be able to build a commercial unit over 400 square meters. However, we are not that naive, because we are quite sure that Mr Rácz will know exactly who he will have to call and whom he will have to consult when these requests come to him, who will tell him on the fidesz threads who he can and who he cannot give permission to. [[13.40]] This is obviously not only a mockery of local communities, obviously the debauchery of their own politicians, the recognition of the competence and incompetence of their own politicians, but also, obviously, another kind of mischief: who can build a commercial unit of more than 400 square meters? The ones you allow in one person. Once again, all kinds of decisions will be taken, all kinds of decisions will be overturned, and they will obviously be issued or not issued on the basis of party points or sloppy points. Ladies and gentlemen. The least that's wrong with this law is why the president sent him back. The president sent it back because they were once again legislating the way they used to do: in this House we often experience it, but who is a member of the Legislative Committee has experienced a thousand times that the legislative standard that is here is scandalous, the legislative standard that is here. [[Intercoms in the benches of Jobbik and Fidesz.]] They withdraw amendments twenty-five times, send out 100-200-page amendments at night, just because they don't listen to anyone, and they only follow their own minds, in this case as well. That's why the president sent him back. But once again, the President should have been sent back because he is not fit to implement it, because he is destroying the rights of local communities because he is taking away the rights of the body of representatives elected by local communities, and he is once again taking away the possibility of self-government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, it's another law of the law that we can't support. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-48	Thank you very much. The next scheduled speaker was Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, Member of Jobbik.
u2014-12-23-2-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, To tell you the truth, it was terrifying to hear László Vécsey argue that it was the fault of the whole law, and it was so wrong to accept it because we didn't say anything at the time, and we didn't point out the mistakes that János Áder found. I'd like to show you respectfully from here this time, but yes! But yes, let us read the minutes that contain what we had written and said on the subject at the time, and it will also come out from the minutes that we surprisingly listed exactly the mistakes in the context of the general debate, and even suggested that we delete, for example, the ones that János Áder then sent back to the House for consideration. So that's why it's an interesting question, but let's see what it's all about. So why was it comforting to read John Áder's letter? First of all, it was fundamentally and generally comforting because it was indeed a law of extremely poor quality, and not only we say, believe it, but also colleagues working in the construction administration said - and I read letters about it - that they didn't know whether to cry or laugh that this law should be applied to them, and then what to do? How do you get hold of it? How do you start with a law that consists of unenforceable stages? The other comforting to us in János Áder's letter was indeed that he marked the exact sections that we talked about as a mistake. At the same time, there were some, some of which were not pointed out by János Áder, and I would like to start with them for the first time. It is also problematic for us, and it is not quite understandable why the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County will be the licensing authority in the case of mall construction. I heard the Secretary of State at the TAB meeting say that he has already answered this question three times and that he will not answer it again at the TAB meeting. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] With all due respect, he hasn't responded once. So we have never heard a real, real reason, so I ask you very nicely, Mr Secretary of State, to respect me: we are here, we are listening, we are sincerely looking forward to the answer. [[A voice from Jobbik's benches: "That's right!]] Don't come to us tonight and we won't know the answer. Well, that's what we're gonna vote on. Let us be able to vote on it by saying yes or no with a calm conscience now, because we know the real reasons for clarifying this issue. The other is what János Áder also did not point out, the next. I also said this in the previous debate that I would therefore be talking about two different paragraphs. In the authorisation procedure, the application, the licence holder's plan and the annexes shall be required, but then, when the preliminary professional consent is referred to in the following paragraph, which may otherwise be used for one year in the authorisation procedure, only visual design, main data and others shall be provided. Then tell me what the government's decision is based on. Because you make the same decision, you can make the same decision with the same content, legal consequences in advance, if it is used in time and in the authorization procedure, yet you ask for two different things to be considered. I will go further on the points: what János Áder has said is this. The authority shall decide on the basis of the opinion of a particular committee. In the preliminary submission, we read that in addition to the content of the authorisation holder's plan, the Committee may request so-called necessity documents for this decision. At the time, in the general debate, I asked what these necessary documents could mean. I thought, obviously, there must be some sort of spelling error here, and then I was reassured by the Secretary of State, because, by the way, what we might be thinking is that we are talking about food stamps that are used in wardomunism, because what are these, by the way? 'Cause construction law doesn't have that kind of concept, by the way. But it's okay, you guys fixed it in the end, and all you had to do was submit satisfactory documents. Unfortunately, that doesn't really change. The bill that lies before us does not solve this, there is no reassuring, definitive settlement; and in this respect, János Áder should also reply to you. Since he said that there is legal certainty if it is determined on the basis of a specific and specific list, what it may actually need to issue an opinion of this kind, which the Committee will do in the course of the authorisation procedure. I still miss that. I'm asking why. Probably because they brought this re-submitted proposal to the House so quickly that there was no time to fine-tune it. The other is the concept of suspension. The suspension, as we've just heard, is the Ket. clearly define what we call the construction process, at all, as suspension in the course of an administrative procedure. You and the person who formulated the original bill for you are probably unaware of the Ket. with its relevant concepts, and unfortunately, therefore, some rather strange wordings have been included in the law. You now believe that this concept will simply be enclosed in the bill and will no longer be dealt with in this matter. It probably shouldn't have been erased, it should have been clarified, and the Ket. have its relevant rules applied here as well. Overall, I must add that, as I said in the previous bill, I also said in the general debate on the bill, this is not a good solution that you are using here. So neither is what has been the mallstop law so far, and what is now going to expire as of 1 January, nor is this, we believe that it will not settle this whole problem properly and in every respect reassuringly, as malls have been built at the time of the mallstop law, so to speak, they will probably continue to do so. We do not know what the criteria for a committee to say yes or no are going to be [[Dr. András Schiffer: Fidesz only!]] - unless it is what my fellow Member tells me is only in the interest of Fidesz - so we do not know what the aspects that will prevail in a licensed procedure will be. Overall, however, you are withdrawing powers from local authorities that are granted by the Fundamental Law on the one hand and by the Mötv on the other. Therefore, the law on the municipalities of Hungary also provides for them. But for some reason, you are artificially underage the municipalities and are trying to make them poor in such a way that they cannot make a decision in this regard. In many other matters, they let them decide. I don't know why this is the only point where you think that this power should be removed. Maybe it's not because [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they really want to bring people to the fore, they want to give them a head start. [[The president's ringing several times.]] Who belong to your moonyard? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[13.50]]
u2014-12-23-2-50	Thank you, notary. Preliminary speaker Ms Ágnes Vadai. You have two minutes, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-51	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, You, fellow pro-government Members, said you wouldn't come in the morning because you didn't participate in a political circus. I'd like to ask you what this is, then, what you're playing with the President of the Republic. It's a puppet show. The President of the Republic sends back - by the way, the President of the Fidesz Republic - the law, you modify it a little bit and then push through this so-called mallstop law that supports companies that are close to you. Are you or the President of the Republic guided by market economy considerations regarding the amendment? You don't know much about this composition of words, but you do know that it's a market: we take it or nationalize it, economy: we destroy it. Does the question of freedom of enterprise lead you or lead the President of the Republic in this matter? Yeah, well, the freedom of your stooges and your pussy business, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, that's, Does the protection of property lead you, or did you lead the President of the Republic when you sent this law back? Yeah, well, protecting their own property, that's what we saw. If you need to protect your own property, then everything, if you need to protect your friends' property, your interests, everything, if anyone else's, then nothing. Then what interest did you have in this matter? Several of my fellow Members have already said that it is quite clear that it is in no way in the interests of the Hungarian State or of the Hungarian citizens. It was in the interests of the trombones, friends and ultimately the governing parties that led it to the original law and this. And I will tell my fellow Members why this is the government office. The short answer is just that. 'Cause that's how you guys legislate in Parliament. And the longer is obviously, because there's some shit out there, some kind of interest, something to push this government office forward. I don't know, for my fellow Members. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] On the helm side, did you notice that, let alone over 400 meters, they weren't building... [[L. Simon László: Square meters!]] - More than 400 square meters, but less than 4 square meters, they don't build slowly in Hungary.
u2014-12-23-2-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-53	So the Democratic Coalition does not support this bill in any way. [[A rare applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP. L. Simon László: This is unbelievable!]]
u2014-12-23-2-54	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, State Secretary, Fidesz.
u2014-12-23-2-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is worth recalling the proposal that has now been tabled because I see that the debate has so far been fundamentally divided into two parts: on the one hand, the comments made by the President of the Republic on the proposal and, on the other hand, on the substance of the proposal itself. Allow me to answer the question that my fellow Member Vadai has said here, as to why this law is necessary. Perhaps anyone who knows the history of Hungarian commerce for the past 15 years knows that at some point from the beginning of the two thousand years there was an explosive increase in Hungarian trade, as far as the number of newly built square meters is concerned. There has been such an explosion that today Hungary is ahead of most European states in terms of commercial square metres per customer, from France to Germany. What fueled this explosive growth was the catalyst for this: on the one hand, total unregulatedness. As in Europe, by the way...
u2014-12-23-2-56	Congressman! Would you please get the mike up and running? [[Kristóf Szatmáry: I tried, but the tweezers were gone! Zoltán Lukács: Forget it then! Lajos Korózs: Get one, Christopher!]] But this way it works with very unpleasant noises. [[Zoltán Lukács: That's why time is going well!]] Or take a microphone, then. [[Kristóf Szatmáry has a microphone picked up.]] Thank you very much. We count the time. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Stopped! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's okay, it's okay.]] You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-57	Isn't that better?
u2014-12-23-2-58	Very good. It was good, it was good.
u2014-12-23-2-59	Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-60	Thank you very much. Here.
u2014-12-23-2-61	Then maybe we've been able to fix the sound technically. So what fueled this growth? In part, the fact that the establishment of new commercial units in Hungary was completely unregulated compared to Western Europe. I would refer here to the fact that similar regulations are also in place in a number of European countries, such as Belgium, but also in France, there are certain barriers to new commercial units. For the sake of the historical overview, we might add that the irresponsible lending policy that we know, unfortunately, that a significant part of Hungary has been indebted to foreign currency, and that, as a bubble, in the middle of the two thousand years, has increased trading facilities in Hungary because of purchasing power to such an extent that it did not really fit the size of Hungary. Here are some deterrent data: between 2000 and 2010, between 2000 and 2010, between 500 and 600 retail units were closed due to the commercial concentration, which were not able to compete with the multinationals who settled in Hungary. In addition, between 2000 and 2010, nearly 50,000 commercial jobs were lost, as there is a clear commercial experience and economic context that the number of employees per square metre in large-scale business premises is much lower than in retail performance. Overall, another negative example of the period between the early 2000s and 2010: in addition to the disappearance of many small shops, in addition to the loss of nearly 50 thousand jobs in trade, the share of domestic property was somewhere around 60 percent in trade in the early 2000s, only 40-42 percent in 2010. Good news, perhaps, since this decline went into stagnation and kept this level between 42 and 43 percent. But not only did such problems arise because of the establishment of unregulated commercial facilities, but also the problems of urban structures. As a Budapest representative, I and my fellow Members are likely to see precisely that the problem is that a large part of downtown business premises were empty and could not compete in terms of purchasing power, and it follows that unregulated and dumping-like commercial units have taken the purchasing power somewhere in the suburbs, somewhere in the vicinity of the M0 area, causing not a little traffic damage, not a little environmental damage. Consequently, the provision, which was born in 2011 as a mallstop, was actually created for a transitional period of three years, in order to create a system, which we now have in our hands the improvement of, since it is no longer a complete ban, but a normative procedure is actually trying to regulate this area of trade in a manner similar to the Hungarian administrative procedures. So, in our view, the content of the bill and what the bill seeks to target, that is to say, that it better regulates the place of trade in the built environment, that the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, if possible, are trying to help, because it is not an accident that this limit is drawn at 400 square meters, and in these respects it is absolutely necessary and important to adopt this bill. The other part of the debate, of course, that President of the Republic has sent back, and we believe that the amendments tabled by the Legislative Committee can address those legal problems. So, overall, on the part of the Fidesz fraction, we are in agreement with the content of the law, and the amendments that the President of the Republic has sent back for consideration are considered corrected here in relation to the proposal, which is why we are asking the Parliament to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.00]]
u2014-12-23-2-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Leader of the Group, LMP.
u2014-12-23-2-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, For the sake of chronological loyalty, I am obliged to recall that the proposal itself was an LMP motion, and precisely the idea came out of the mind of my fellow Member, Mr Róbert Sallai, Benedek, back in 2010, and on this basis was presented by the then LMP faction. The fact is, however, that we are debating this bill and, in this context, the amendments are quite different from some opposition representatives who have previously spoken. We continue to call for zero tolerance in the expansion of malls. The original LMP proposal was to free the Hungarian countryside, free the Hungarian retailers and local producers from the pressure of the malls and wholesale chains. Compared to this, you are doing again that there is an eligible topic, there is an unpopular market, and you are turning the proposal into a single goal: only the Fidesz; and only the oligarchs close to Fidesz can continue to flourish. This bill, according to the President's letter, also suffers from three mistakes that would not have been made if fair legislation had been done in the government and if you took the legislative work seriously. The President of the Republic is commenting on legal errors in which I note that the constitutional veto would be the right instrument, not the return to consideration. These are evidence of a lack of coherence, confusion in which the Constitutional Court should say the word. It is quite amazing what they are doing with regard to deadlines, the launch of procedures on 1 January in which participating committees will not be established until 1 February. I would like to point out that such legislative turmoil makes the Hungarian legal system fundamentally unpredictable, and this is also a very serious uncertainty factor on the part of entrepreneurs wishing to invest and risk. However, confusion exists not only within the legislation but also throughout the legal system. The President of the Republic commented that the original proposal adopted by Parliament would be contrary to the administrative procedural law. However, the most beautiful thing is that the law does not give any crutches on the basis of which criteria the Commission's opinions should be taken into account when considering the administrative procedure. And here's the dog, Mr. Secretary. The thing is, this whole committee and the arbitrary appointment of the Hajdú-Bihar County Government Office are good for you to put your friends in the position. There is no reason for laying down the criteria of the law, and what was adopted by the Legislative Committee does not correspond in any way to the requirement required by the President of the Republic. We still do not know on what basis Róbert Rácz will issue permits, on what basis the opinion of the committee will be included in the administrative procedure. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] I look forward to L. Simon László's speech. I am in the unfortunate situation, Mr Secretary of State, that I have never once heard your explanation of the special skills of Rácz Róbert, that he must make these decisions. The thing is, you are not looking at the interests of local producers, not domestic SMEs, not the interests of family farms, but the interests of your friends. If it were to strengthen the Hungarian retail market, they would accept the LMP's demand to declare zero tolerance to the malls, to prevent the expansion of the malls. Fidesz's answer is that it's okay, except for those who are nice to Fidesz. And those who are dear to Fidesz will decide Róber Racz. Mrs Lóránt Hegedűs also suggested that we do not know exactly what aspects we will need to consider. I would make another suggestion if, under the legislative procedure, the legislative order were to be able to say that the applicant must comply with the electoral programme of the ruling party that won the elections. This would be extremely simple in this case, and the criterion that we continue to do so must be met. But what they're doing, and I think everyone in this country knows exactly what they're doing. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-64	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács Fidesz.
u2014-12-23-2-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In spite of my intention, I asked for the floor because there was a speech here which cannot go unanswered. In this speech, the speaker said nothing less than that the President of the Republic's considerations would be guided not by the use of legal instruments, not by the full use of legal means, but by some other intention. This has to be rejected. The full functioning of the President of the Republic has made it clear that the majority of the Fidesz that makes the decision will make its decision, and will exercise this decision within the constitutional framework, and here, if necessary, will return the laws. The question of what the President of the Republic has to apply in this case, whether this kind of veto should be turned to the Constitutional Court, is strictly at the discretion of the President of the Republic or failing, and the President of the Republic must strictly consider which one is the most conducive to the enforcement of law and constitutionality. I believe that, in the case at hand, it is necessary to look and examine when trying to press the constitutional issue, whether, when the call comes, the majority wishes to do enough or not to do enough. If you do not wish to do so, do so on good grounds, and if you do, you will provide the appropriate justification for this. I think that in this case, as usual, the majority acted accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-66	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm asking the author, but I'm not asking, because it says yes. I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-67	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Bell has asked us to apologize for making the wrong law. [[Zoltán Lukács: He said it the other way around!]] And then he went out of the room as usual. Of course, you don't want to hear the author's answer. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In any case, I can say in front of this House that if we have done something wrong, we will correct it. This law did indeed have flaws, and the President of the Republic indicated this, and we have corrected these errors today, and we hope that it will be acceptable to the President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, In any event, one thing is certain, the purpose of this law, the necessity of this law and its adoption as soon as possible, since the law initiated by the LMP three years ago expires on 31 December this year, neither the President of the Republic nor the persons determining it in the general public have opposed it. The fact that our socialist fellow Members in Parliament are once again not in favour of small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, not in favour of the pro-government majority seeking to protect the built environment, speaks for itself. [[Dr. László Varga: What a load of bullshit!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say one thing to Congressman Luke. Today, we have heard and observed very nice linguistic phenomena in the House, for example, my fellow Member Schiffer said that the government was running amok. Bravo! So all I have to offer my fellow Member, Luke, is to rotate either the interpreter's hand dictionary or the synonym dictionary. The term "law-making" does not equal the term "law-making." To rule means - I quote from the synonymary - to judge, to judge, to do justice, to do justice, to judge. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You have prepared lawyers sitting behind you, and I think they are aware of the difference between the concepts of lawmaking and law making. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell. Zoltán Lukács: The udder between the horns! Is that all you had in mind? Why are you talking about that?]]
u2014-12-23-2-68	Congressman!
u2014-12-23-2-69	I am talking about what I would like, fellow Members. Don't yell at me. [[14.10]] As you fellow Members have turned today's debate into a general debate [[Zoltán Lukács: Sit!]] and for a moment they were not talking about what they were supposed to talk about, namely the objection made by the President of the Republic and its correction [[Zoltán Lukács: We talked about you stealing again.]] so allow me to talk about what I want to talk about. [[Interventions from opposition benches, including Zoltán Lukács: You want to steal again. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-23-2-70	Congressman Luke!
u2014-12-23-2-71	I am very irritated by my fellow Members... [[Zoltán Lukács: Stealing again, that's what it is.]]
u2014-12-23-2-72	I'll take the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[It's constant noise. It's ringing. L. Simon László intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Secretary of State, a little... Mr. Secretary, I've taken the floor from you. Hold on a second, please. [[Zoltán Lukács: It's about time! A round of applause and applause in the opposition benches.]] With all due respect, I would like to warn Congressman Luke of the possible consequences of the next warning. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Go on.
u2014-12-23-2-73	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment that we have discussed in the Legislative Committee today and that this House will decide today does not, by the way, affect the question that my fellow Members have spoken about why we have appointed the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County. But as I have said, I will say it again, in the spirit of decentralisation, we would have liked it to be decided not in the capital, but in the country government office, in the country government office, both in the first degree and in the second degree. And we have decided that the Government Office of Hajdú-Bihar County is the government office of one of the largest counties in the country. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Why not Somogy County? Or why not Fejér County?]] I'm telling you, the government office of one of the largest counties in the country, has the professional experience and knowledge that, by the way... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Pest county, but even Bács-Kiskun county is bigger.]] - which is necessary in the course of the administrative procedure to prepare the decision and to take the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, Róbert Rácz does not make the decision alone. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the MSZP and the independents.]] There is an expert panel proposal, and there is an administrative procedural process at the end of which the decision is actually signed by the head of the government office. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that all the points that my fellow Member Schiffer has asked me about will be made clear from the Government Regulation. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Where is the legal guarantee? Zoltán Lukács: What is that?]] Honourable Congressman, The Government decree contains the detailed rules for which the law otherwise authorises the Government, my honourable fellow Member. I spoke about the details and background of this at the Legislative Committee's meeting today. Overall, I can say, ladies and gentlemen, that the pro-government majority has understood the request of President of the Republic. [[Zoltán Lukács: How good!]] We have seen, my fellow Members, that in certain technical details the law needs refining, shaping and correcting. That's what we did. With these amendments, we will put it to the vote again in this House. I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We won't! It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken at the earliest on the agenda at 2.30 p.m. Dear Parliament, It follows that the CLXIV of 2005 on trade, adopted by the Parliament on 9 December 2014, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. The Commission's legislative report and the proposal amending the Act on the modification of the Act on the operation of undertakings to ensure fair market conduct is discussed. [[It's a lot of noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, Everything they shout is no longer heard on the television screen, so it's completely unnecessary. [[László Varju: Has the broadcast been blocked?]] We're just bothering each other. Please pay a little more attention, please. Thank you very much. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/2086/3. Letter from the President of the Republic No T/2086/4. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/2086/6. and T/2086/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the views expressed on minorities will be presented in the debate. A total of 15 minutes is available for these. First, I give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor. [[In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.]]
u2014-12-23-2-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I hereby inform the Parliament that the Legislative Committee discussed today the T/2086 sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. OJ L 343, 14.12.2012, p. 1. In order to achieve fair market conduct, it submitted a bill amending the functioning of the business and a three-point amendment and a summary report with 23 yes and 8 non-voting votes. In its transcript, the President of the Republic drew attention, inter alia, to the regulation of Community law which states that a company established under the legislation of a Member State whose registered office, central administration or principal place of business is in the territory of the European Union must be treated in the same way as natural persons who are nationals of the Member States. The transcript also covers the obligation of the Member States to ensure freedom of establishment. The President of the Republic also objected to the outstanding questions in the calculation of the deadline. In view of what has been said, the amendment proposal before us, in the light of the rewrite of the President of the Republic for consideration, proposes to amend the net turnover in the provision contested by the President of the Republic, thus eliminating the possibility of indirect disadvantages raised by the President of the Republic. As regards retail sales, the bill sets out the prohibition of loss-making operations for the next two years and reduces the required turnover of HUF 50 billion to 15 billion, thus ensuring equal treatment and freedom of establishment for all businesses in the future. The Legislative Committee submitted an amendment to the calculation of the time limits and the date of application of the sanctions and may be examined as from 1 January 2017. Point 2 of the Legislative Committee's proposed amendment provides for this. I would ask my fellow Members, together with the amendment tabled by the Legislative Committee, to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-76	Thank you very much, Congressman Vas Imre. Minority opinions will now be presented in a total time frame of seven minutes. Two will introduce you, Congressman László Lukács and Gergely Bárándy. I'm guessing they agreed on how to divide the time. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: In half.]] First, I give the floor to Mr László Lukács.
u2014-12-23-2-77	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have just heard, at this morning's meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee discussed the passages involved in the amendment of the Trade Act and the proposed amendment to it by the Legislative Committee. In order to translate my fellow Member Vas Imre into Hungarian, it was practically that, and the President of the Republic sent a letter in which he specifically discussed the legal amendment already adopted with regard to the EU Treaty and the case law of the European Union, let us say, a difficult relationship. [[14.20]] In essence, this letter was about, and in essence, the President of the Republic said that it was against the EU Treaty and that it was not in conformity with the case law at all. It also referred to cases such as the Schumacher and Talotta cases, in which the legislation adopted by the Hungarian Parliament violates the EU Treaty and the rights set out therein. There was also a question at the Legislative Committee's meeting as to what the President of the Republic referred to, i.e. how the question of indirect disadvantage could be measured. This issue has been raised and made conditional upon the Minister of State present there, who has essentially avoided it, even though he said that in this case they are governed by the EU Treaty and the position of the court. And that's exactly what he said, and that's what he said in answer, that it's unacceptable to think so, because, in essence, the change that they're trying to implement before the Legislative Committee by lowering the threshold is just as far as I'm concerned - and that was the minority position that was formed in the Legislative Committee - is not going to comply with the EU rule on which the law seems to have failed, in quote sign. So it will continue to exist - and that was the opinion, I repeat - indirect disadvantage. It has also been said that small and medium-sized traders and small and medium-sized businesses need protection, because the protection of small shops is a priority, and this was also the aim of the bill, but it does not seem to fully achieve their protection, although the most important thing is that their protection should be done. It has also been said and mentioned that this law will be released as a bulldozer in the commercial sector and without otherwise protecting the larger businesses established here, but it seems that there will be rather harmful effects and thus, for example, an increase in the purchase of goods for the general public and a price increase may occur. Thus, overall, this repeated reduction is not, in essence, a solution to the EU treaties or the unbroken practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union. So it is not a solution, and it could therefore not be accepted in the Legislative Committee, as we said in the minority opinion. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-78	Thank you very much, Congressman Luke. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2014-12-23-2-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are, at least, pleased that, at least here, the rapporteur for the majority opinion did not raise it as a failure of the opposition, as Congressman Vécsey did, that this law did not meet the constitutional criteria and that the President of the Republic sent it back. I've heard a lot of absurd things in this House, but I think it was one of the biggest. What happened at the committee meeting and what my fellow Member did not say was, among other things, that as a speaker of our group, I agreed with Mr State Secretary that there was something to thank the President of the Republic on behalf of Fidesz. There is something to be thanked for, because the President of the Republic should have sent this law back to the Constitutional Court, in my view, not again or again. This is supported most by the transcript of the President of the Republic, where, according to the veto, non-compliance with Community law is one of the reasons why Parliament has to renegotiate this law today. However, if the President of the Republic saw it this way, he should have sent it to the Constitutional Court under the laws in force. In our view, this did not happen in order to give the parties of government the opportunity to adopt this law again this year; if the President of the Republic sends it to the Constitutional Court, it is obviously not possible. This proposal does not change the situation, since any discrimination must be a compelling reason of public interest and the measures used must be appropriate and proportionate to achieve this objective of public interest. Therefore, what the Secretary of State has said in his reply is, in my view, not in his place, because he may be dealing with a problem, but he certainly does not address the question of proportionality. The President of the Republic quoted one of the judgments of the European Court of Justice, which my fellow Member referred to in the previous statement, which draws attention to the fact that there is no valid reference to the protection of the country's economy or to the restoration of the fiscal balance by increasing tax revenues in order to introduce such discrimination. According to a presidential complaint supported by the practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the regulation applied raises the issue of indirect discrimination. Despite saying once again that the Secretary of State has tried to find an explanation, I believe that this amendment does not give a real and meaningful answer to the President of the Republic's veto, at least as regards the non-compliance of the proposal with Community law. One thought is that, as we said there, 50 will be negotiated on the market to 15, it does not make the question of principle sound, nor does it answer the question of principle, and therefore the infringement, but we will save the further explanation for the debate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-12-23-2-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. Secretary of State Béla Glattfelder says yes. You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies, gentlemen! The bill contained a pass which basically contained the fact that commercial companies would not be able to operate loss-making over a period of more than two years. The fundamental aim of this proposal was not to create monopolies, because if monopolies are created, it is obviously due to their ability to abuse their dominant position in the economy, and in the longer term it will certainly lead to more expensive food. Thus, the original objective of this passage of the bill was to protect the interests of consumers, i.e. to give people cheaper access to daily commercial articles in the longer term. The President of the Republic should indeed be thanked for having dealt with this law and for sending his comments to Parliament. The President of the Republic dealt with two different issues. One does not have any European Union dimension. The President of the Republic stated that the entry into force parts concerning this particular two-year loss-making operating ban are not clear, so the bill, prepared by the Legislative Committee, proposes a much more understandable entry into force which does not require explanation. And let me point out that it also includes the advantage that, as a result of this, the law will enter into force a year earlier, i.e. the ban on loss-making operations will be imposed a year earlier. The President of the Republic's second comment contains an EU legal comment, and it is essentially about the fact that foreign and domestic businesses cannot be distinguished, as it is not possible to distinguish between foreign and domestic individuals. This was suspected by the fact that the turnover limit, the net turnover limit, was set at a very high value of HUF 50 billion, above which the law should have applied for the purposes of assessing the prohibition of loss-making operations. The proposal we are discussing reduces this value to less than one third, and its advantage is, moreover, to significantly broaden the range of companies for which the prohibition of loss-making operations should apply. In this sense, this not only helps to comply with EU legal requirements, but also benefits because others will have to apply rules on loss-making bans. From these considerations, the government supports the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.30]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2014-12-23-2-82	Welcome, fellow Members. I agreed before I came up: Mr. Secretary of State, if you are going to take the opportunity to close, you have 6 minutes and 20 seconds left. We now have the Members' speeches in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would first like to address the Members who have applied in writing. Member Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group has spoken. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I very much hope that the President of the Republic has examined not only this one law that you thank for, because it is his duty to examine all the laws from the point of view of sending it back for consideration or turning to the Constitutional Court if it is unconstitutional. Although this would give an answer to events where he has also signed laws that should have been considered or even examined before the Constitutional Court as to whether they are constitutionally appropriate. This legislation, as you indicate in this law, serves to protect small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary and to establish different rules for different types of business, taking into account EU standards. This includes a provision prohibiting the construction, operation of certain types of business in a world heritage area, or requiring a provision that has already been mentioned for two years that cannot be loss-making - if the amendment is now accepted by Parliament - the undertaking with a turnover of more than HUF 15 billion and dealing with the retail sale of daily consumer goods for a minimum of 50 per cent of the turnover. The justification for this legislation, which we have heard in the debates and in the Legislative Committee, is one of the main reasons why there is a public interest that businesses that carry out such activities should be profitable and pay public burdens. Or your main reason is that you want to protect small and medium-sized enterprises, although this is a pity that you were not guided by it when the Traffic Act was negotiated and adopted, because you still had to close a lot of retail shops and convenience stores, because you couldn't continue this activity. The bill itself is based on some kind of suspicion, which we can read a lot about in the media, we talk a lot here, even in Parliament, so that, so to speak, ugly multinationals, wholesale companies carry out profits and carry their incomes from Hungary, they make losses here, while the parent companies benefit. However, neither in the course of the hearing of the law nor in the present case do we see any factual investigation material or factual impact assessment that proves this, nor any analysis of why these undertakings are operating at a loss or what leads to a loss-making farm. You are taking another economic process in the past, and on that basis you are making a piece of legislation on these grounds. Mr President of the Republic mentioned that there is a very important criterion in the justification that the rules of the European Union must be respected. It specifically pointed out that this regulation, this law, is inadequate to make a difference in the scope of European Union legislation in respect of such different types of business, and that the amendments adopted today by the Legislative Committee are inadequate to eliminate and remedy this major problem. In fact, as I mentioned, we have not seen any impact studies on the protection of small and medium-sized enterprises that show that this regulation will improve their competitive position. The fact that the competitive position of large companies is deteriorating is what you assume, but what will improve the situation of retail stores is not what we see. That is why we cannot think of anything else, as has been said in the Legislative Committee, and, therefore, you are regularly doing here in Parliament that there is a need to look for an underlying purpose. What could possibly be the underlying motive? It was also said at the committee meeting today that Hungarian small and medium-sized companies should be considered here, the Hungarian-owned trade chains which will benefit from the advantage, and we were actually asked to be aware that this was a national interest, so we should not be opposed to this, because domestic business chains can be supported. One problem is that the largest domestic business chain is Fidesz's friend and Fidesz's close company, the CBA business network. So you acknowledge that you actually want to do these businesses, you want to do favors for this network, and you consider this to be a national interest and say so. With all due respect, Fidesz interests are regularly confused with national interests. We can support any proposal that is in the interests of Hungary, but we will not be able to support proposals that serve the interests of Fidesz, the interests of the ruling party, and we will therefore obviously not be able to support this bill for these reasons. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-23-2-84	Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-85	Mr President, Dear House, Once again, we have to say that it is not far from Jobbik to involve foreign networks and chains arriving in Hungary, at least in public burdens, or to place a burden that is approaching this direction. The fact is that this proposal, on the other hand, which lies before us, is not about this either in the case of the basic debate, nor now, in the light of the humiliatingly thought-out proposal in a few days. It is not at all about a higher degree of participation in the public burden-sharing of companies that loot Hungary and rob Hungarian workers, suppliers and entrepreneurs. Especially not after the amendment. Because, for example, it is already covered by some market calculations by a network that is either domestic or domestic, where there is, for example, the possibility of individual listing, so that a smaller producer or a small producer can find its calculation on the shelves of large stores or larger shops. The fact is, then, that we could support this package of proposals, if it were to be about, say, making it easier for Hungarian convenience stores. However, we must say that we cannot support at all a package of proposals, which may also result in some capital-powered multinational networks starting to buy up Hungarian convenience stores at an even higher pace. We cannot support a proposal on which the authors, the author, also acknowledge that some 50 000 commercial jobs have ceased during the ten-year period of which the investigation has led you to come up with similar proposals. Nor do the authors deny, indeed, that 500-600 retail units have ceased to exist, which they could not protect from this international multi-network. And now they're putting down a proposal that makes these multi-company companies, which are actually looting Hungary, because they don't admit their profits, send home much of their profits untaxed, you just expect them to confess 20-30 billion annually and then drop a little tax into the budget - they're not counting the additional effects again. Once again, they do not expect to stop the hundreds of billions of production technology, which have been repatriated to rent the IT system; otherwise, we are talking about the magnitude of 4000-4500 billion in the entire multisectoral sector, a small section of this is what we are talking about when we look at these food networks. They do not address the fact that the situation with regard to consumer complaints is now not as simple as it was ten years ago when we saw that the most problems arise with the foreign investor or the foreign network. Unfortunately, consumer complaints about the chains that are already being said to Hungarians are also taking an amazing amount of action. At the same time, you continue to avoid a consumer raid that could eliminate similar abuses. In conclusion, it would be possible to support such a proposal if it were to protect Hungarian jobs, but there is no guarantee. If it would contribute to the survival of Hungarian small shops, small units or re-opening, let alone there is no guarantee, we see a danger to the contrary that some capital-powered multi-enterprises can actually start buying in. We could support such a proposal if it would contribute to the preservation and creation of commercial jobs; but this, which you have placed on the table, is likely to add to the 50 thousand commercial jobs that have already been lost, many have lost, which we cannot support under any circumstances. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2014-12-23-2-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. A proper speech will be followed by Ms Ágnes Vadai. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-87	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here a lot of people thanked President János Áder for doing his job, who, by the way, received his salary for it, and thanked him so well that they did not really care about what he wrote in his letter. Because he has even given a line leader to the pro-government representatives that this bill in this form is clearly contrary to EU legislation, yet this problem has not been eliminated. In fact, with regard to his other objection that he was concerned that the contested 4. § It will enter into force on 1 January 2018, and you have decided that if the President of the Republic says that this is of concern, it will be brought into force sooner. My fellow Members, today the problem has not been solved, but it has been added, because surely this bill will land with the European Commission, the European Court of Justice, and it will cost Hungarian taxpayers very much in the end. So the representatives of the Democratic Coalition do not support the amendment proposal of the Legislative Committee, nor the original bill, but generally such legislation in any way, so we will vote against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2014-12-23-2-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am asking my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak. Yes, I am speaking to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps, compared to the previous agenda, this debate really shows that, frankly, I have rather shocking opposition opinions about the interests of the nation and the interests of certain groups. For me, of course, the President of the Republic's improved intention to make the proposal pass through the European Union filter is to be supported, but it is shocking that, in addition to my fellow Members in the MSZP, my fellow Members in this proposal do not see what is in it, that is, that anyone working in Hungary should be a Hungarian company or an international company, but that they should be taxed in Hungary. I believe that this is the minimum national objective for the current government and for the opposition at all times. Fellow Members, if they had a better proposal, [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's not what this is about!]] It could have been filed. There is a need to look at how many amendments have been tabled. It is, of course, possible to criticise the proposal that the proposal does not reach the right goal, but that it leads Hungary's taxation to the right path, that whether a company, whether foreign or Hungarian, may not admit some of its taxes to Hungary, but to show them abroad through different techniques, this is one of the minimum national targets, and therefore I can certainly ask and I will ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, was missing data. My fellow Member, it is very simple: it is necessary to draw up a report on last year's tax results for the six major international chains in Hungary. My fellow Member, who operates in the economy and sees the processes there, it is quite clear to him that the average turnover of the six largest companies is HUF 1500-1600 billion per year. The six largest companies show a result of minus HUF 20 billion when consumption increased by 3-4 percent in Hungary. If someone doesn't see that something has to be done about it, and he says that it's not a national interest, it's either you representing party interests or you don't see the reality. This proposal attempts to, yes, to ensure that international companies that operate in Hungary are not from this one law, because there are a number of other proposals, and this area is still to be dealt with in the future, but it also sets out the objective of ensuring that the banking system, banks, utilities, is the third largest area of trade, for which the average Hungarian household spends most of its salary, to operate in accordance with certain laws which are clear to everyone and which apply to everyone. The amending proposal also concerns the fact that the previous limit of 50 billion will be lower, so more companies will be subject to this regulation. We trust and ask Parliament to support these proposals in the Parliament, in the spirit of Hungarian trade and common burden. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I take the floor from the LMP Group to Mr András Schiffer Group leader. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I am in a lucky position to reply to my fellow Member, Mr Satmary. Our position was clear and clear when discussing the bill: the LMP supports any proposal that is about protecting consumers, strengthening domestic producers, suppliers, small businesses, making it easier for healthy food produced locally to reach the market. Note: this was also the subject of our VAT reduction proposal. But if you're going to touch the 2000 billion-a-year retail trade, it shouldn't just be about killing the biggest players. At the time, in the final vote, my fellow Member, we did not abstain by accident, precisely because we fundamentally agree with the direction of the proposal, the problem is the chosen instrument. The bill simply does not distinguish between the fact that a company in a targeted circle is loss-making because, for example, in the previous two years, it has invested, developed a network, created jobs, or actually lost money because it is pumping money out of the country. If the proposal were indeed limited to this, we would vote in favour of this. Plus, since we're talking about shutting down the money pump, what's the holdup about, say, examining the story of chained VAT fraud with a committee of inquiry? What I am asking, my fellow Member, is that if the sacred goal is to shut down the income pump, then what is preventing you from discussing our various proposals for the scrapping of offshore knights in this House. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that the proposal itself, which is merely based on the assumption that if it repels the various foreign chains, companies occupying their seats will automatically treat workers better and spend their income on domestic producers, domestic products, illusions. So this bill does not meet the desired goal. The fact is, Honourable Parliament, that there is no guarantee in this proposal that the quality of services will increase, in order to protect consumers, and that local retailers and suppliers would be more easily placed. We do not argue either, Mr Szatmáry, that, where appropriate, capital does indeed have nationality, and that businesses linked to the local economy, if they are in a better position in the commercial sector, are good for the development of the local economy. There is just no guarantee that the domestic - quoted - multi that will replace, say, a large foreign trade chain, will indeed develop the local economy. Not to mention, while this bill is on the one hand reprimanding Tesco, there is no guarantee that Aldi, Penny or other networks will not be doing the same thing, so to speak, under radar. So the problem will be re-produced, especially in the absence of the extended ban on franchise buddies. So, in itself, with the aim of legislating the regulation of wholesale chains which attempt to pump income out of the national economy by producing artificial losses, we agree, of course. However, we do not agree with them that those who are losing money because they have actually invested in previous years, and the bill does not give any guarantees to commercial workers, commercial workers, suppliers or local producers that large domestic entrepreneurs who have entered the market to replace the wholesale chains based on the income pump will indeed undertake to comply with the required legal objectives. There is no guarantee that companies, obviously close to Fidesz, which will benefit from this law, will be treated differently with commercial employees and with productive income, which they cannot so much as pump out of the country, would indeed be used to market local products and to sell local products. [[14.50]] And another thing: On one side, the income pump is blocked to make artificial losses to steal income from Hungary, on the other hand, no one is preventing new trade chains that, on the other hand, are trying to pump income through offshore fibers. Therefore, this proposal does not solve anything. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-92	Thank you very much. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-93	Mr President, Dear House, I would say to my fellow Member Fidesz: Jobbik, in the event that such a large food network, which is foreign owned and has taken an active role in the looting of Hungarian entrepreneurs, would withdraw from Hungary, it might as well throw away the dance of joy. It would not be far from us to think that we should involve a similar company in the scope of public burdens. But my question is that if you criticise us because we do not support this proposal - at least not unconditionally - tell me which party representative gave rise to the amendment, according to which it was possible to increase the fines imposed ten times in the previous cycle on similar companies that harm the food industry. I'll tell you, it came from a representative of Jobbik. How many times you've lived with him since then, we let it be, but openness is not only in us, we've been at the forefront in this regard. I'll ask where you were. During this cycle, when it was decided to terminate the Consumer Protection Committee, which could actually have been the foreclosure of the abuse of similar food companies and an accounting process, they were not at the height of the situation, since this committee was simply replaced with salt and eliminated, integrated into the Economic Committee, but in fact did not have a specific role to play. It can also be said that by trying to put a chain of our own in place, we have not yet advanced, because there are no guarantees in your proposal that the pump of money, which we have condemned on numerous occasions, should stop. There is no letter in this about how they will stop this multi-billion-dollar money pump, which points from Hungary to abroad. There is one thing: if these international companies show up and - once again - companies bleeding out many Hungarian entrepreneurs have some minimal profits, then you will leave them alone, they will not say that the additional 2000-3000 billion will be unduly removed from the country, even though it should also be included in the scope of public burdens. You don't talk about it, we're the only ones talking about it. And this is the real disaster, because it shouldn't be a competition with words, it should be a common goal in front of us, a situation to be resolved. It can also be seen that if they are really determined to protect Hungarian small entrepreneurs and even Hungarian consumers' wallets, then we could touch the VAT issue, reducing Europe's 27 percent record VAT, at least in terms of basic food. It would be a measurable, tangible help. Nor does your proposal discuss how the shelving money-type loads can be avoided by Hungarian entrepreneurs in the future, since a chain or two will be eliminated here. And the idea that Tesco's abuses might not be faced by a Hungarian entrepreneur is really not far from me. It's a very good thing. But what if the CBA does the same thing to him? What if Coop won't be able to make individual listings, to talk to small producers, because you're going to be burdened by them anyway, I'm going to say once again, on a selection basis, a sector where either everyone should be subject to only fair rules through the system, or it should be considered whether they are actually achieving what they have done to us. Once again, we're talking about 500-600 stores and 50,000 lost commercial jobs. This should be the way forward for this catastrophic collapse, for this cataclysm to stop, for consolidation, and for once for the benefit of foreign networks. However, that is not what this proposal is about; this proposal is about these foreign networks, if they show up with you and wink a little profit and then pay 1-2 billion taxes, then they can stay. But that doesn't stop the abuse. Therefore, Jobbik can only settle for returning the last unwarranted forint to the Hungarian entrepreneur, the Hungarian buyer. That's not even enough for a partial result. So if anyone wants to know the reason for our abstention, it is quite clear that the background of this and the driving force behind it is that what lies ahead does not protect a Hungarian customer, does not protect a Hungarian entrepreneur, does not protect a Hungarian entrepreneur. We hope it will at least result in that, but it is very, very far from a full solution. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Bárándy is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to what Congressman Satmary has just said. So, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that it is acceptable that, even if we support Hungarian businesses by legislative means, no one will have a debate about this. The debate, ladies and gentlemen, is that because you write in the explanatory statement that this bill supports Hungarian businesses and serves other noble purposes, it is not so. The problem is that justification and reality are not thanking each other. It is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that it has become a practice in recent times that either no justification for a bill or what is written into it as a justification does not mean a genuine legislative intention. Not so much that sometimes there is a completely different explanation, and once again, there is a different explanation in the content here, let's say, in a keynote speaker's or a national expo for your part, than what the bill contains in writing. So, my fellow Members, that you claim that this bill serves such purposes, because, for example, it is included in the statement of reasons, this is about what it is worth. Unfortunately, that's not what the bill is about. One more thing I would like to highlight. It is not the first time that Congressman Szatmáry has said this false - and I do not want to make another excuse, which is that if we have such a great idea, we should submit it in the form of a legislative amendment proposal. Dear Congressman Satmary, If you listen to me for a moment and not to anything else - but I see you don't respect me with this - Then perhaps you could find out how many suggestions you have made to opposition parties in the last term that you voted for. Do you know how much, Congressman Satmary? Two from LMP, zero from MSZP and zero from Jobbik. In four years! Including this cycle, I have to say. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't have a single bill, a single motion from your own representatives, which you supported. Compared to that, honourable Member, the false text that you are saying is to be tabled as a separate motion - for what, when voted off without consideration? When most of our legislative proposals are not allowed to be debated by Parliament, because they are no longer allowed through committees, they prevent them from being included in the series. Look, Congressman, how many hundred proposals have been made by opposition parties over the past period, and you have voted for zero of the two largest opposition parties' proposals. I don't want you to tell me, please, to submit our proposals, because it's completely unnecessary. Then, if your mentality and attitude change a little on this subject, and you will be willing to consider opposition proposals, not as enemies, but to consider, to believe that not all opposition proposals are at your expense, but, if appropriate, they contain ideas that are truly improving, then stand up next time and say such sentences here in Parliament. I can say once again, ladies and gentlemen, that the problem with this proposal is not to favour domestic businesses, but the problem is that the one you want to favour in parentheses is the Fidesz company that has been preferred by law in countless cases - it is not so bad, as far as I know, that it is for you to organise the peace processions, you know what I am talking about. So, it's not about Hungarian businesses in general, it's about a privileged group that can be summarised as your friends, friends and allies. Ladies and gentlemen, Now, that's something we're definitely not gonna be able to support. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-23-2-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Béla Glattfelder, State Secretary, on behalf of the authors, if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Béla Glattfelder stands up.]] Yes, he does. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank all the Members who have spoken to the debate and to say again that the aim of the bill is to prevent monopolies in retail. [[15.00]] The development of monopolies in trade is particularly dangerous for two reasons: it is dangerous for retailers, small private shops, and it is dangerous for consumers to look at them, because where there are monopolies, everyday consumer goods will be more expensive. If we want to protect the interests of Hungarian consumers, the people's income, then we have to fight monopolies, and it is not tolerated to develop such ones in the retail trade. I would like to note that the President of the Public Office did not object to the method that Parliament has chosen for this purpose. The President of the Republic did not object to the Hungarian Parliament's opposition to the formation of monopolies by prohibiting loss-making operations, which in itself is not objectionable. Nor did he object to the method chosen by Parliament, i.e. that a company operating at loss for more than two years cannot operate at loss, since these rules do not have retroactive effect. I would like to say that the amendment that the Parliament is negotiating is aimed at ensuring that this ban does not create a hidden distinction between domestic and foreign businesses. It reduces the threshold, the turnover limit originally contained in the bill to one third and thus significantly expands the scope to which the rules of the law apply. This is certainly beneficial and will provide greater protection against the formation of monopolies. On the other hand, contrary to what was said here, the President of the Republic did not object to the entry into force of this provision in 2018, but the President of the Republic complained that it was unclear when this rule should apply from 2016 or 2018. Therefore, the proposal that you are discussing now contains a clear conclusion that these rules should apply one year earlier than the earliest interpretation, as from 1 January 2015. Therefore, these proposals not only solve the problems considered by the President of the Republic to be of concern, but also benefit Hungarian customers and consumers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place under the next item. And now I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, because we are continuing our work with decisions. The 1997 LXXVIII on the shaping and protection of the built environment follows. a decision on a proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act, adopted on 9 December 2014, but not announced by the Parliament on the day of its meeting, to amend the Act for the purpose of authorising certain commercial structures and enforcing their sustainability aspects, and a final vote. Act not published T/1995/13. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee discussed the transcript of the President of the Republic this morning, and T/1995/16. T/1995/17. and presented a report. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the house rules, there is no possibility in doing so at the request of a separate vote. First, we will decide on the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1995/16. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 118 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 1997 LXXVIII on the formation and protection of the built environment. T/1995/13 amending Act T/1995 concerning the authorisation of certain commercial structures and the enforcement of sustainability aspects. Act No. 13, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended law by 119 votes in favour, 35 against and 18 abstentions. Next up is the 2005 CLXIV on trade. a decision on a proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee to the Act adopted on 9 December 2014 but not announced in order to achieve fair market conduct and the final vote on the amendment of the Act in connection with the operation of undertakings. The Unpublished Law T/2086/3. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee T/2086/6. T/2086/7. and presented a report to this House. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the house rules, there is no possibility in doing so at the request of a separate vote. First, we will decide on the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/2086/6. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 120 votes to 31, with 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the CLXIV of 2005 on trade. T/2086/3 amending Act T/2086 on the modification of Law T/2086 on the functioning of undertakings in order to achieve fair market conduct Act No 18, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, together with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament passed the amended law by 120 votes to 31, with 23 abstentions. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. We are now moving to interpellation, immediate questions and answers, as well as to the discussion of questions. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. Still, are non-governmental authorities and small settlements at a disadvantage? It's an address. The interpellation will be answered by Minister of State Tibor Pogácsás instead of Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor now. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, During the major restructuring of the municipalities in 2013, and through centralisation measures, the State has taken away significantly more resources from the municipalities than it is taking on the task, and it is also a fact that 90 percent of the municipalities have exactly as much money as is sufficient to pay off their operations. Therefore, it is no wonder that one third of the settlements had to receive extra support at the end of the year - 1175 settlements - in order to preserve their functionality and to prevent other situations that would jeopardise their performance. [[15.10]] We are glad, by the way, that the government saw this, and admitted that the settlements did not ring the alarm by accident, that they were really in trouble, and decided to grant extraordinary support. It is no longer joyful, even annoying, and somewhat outrageous, that the extraordinary support of HUF 12 billion was distributed entirely disproportionately, unjustly and, we can say, depending on the party political color of the leaders of the settlement. Where Fidesz was the head of the settlement, he received significantly more money than there were opposition or independent mayors. Here is the town of Pécs, the Pécs, which received more than 10 percent of the 12 billion forints, 1.3 billion forints, of the 1175 settlements. I do not know why the city needed such extraordinary support when the government already gave it 45 billion forints in previous years. By the way, the city of Pécs received fifty-five times more than the city of Ozd with much more serious problems. But if I look at it in another comparison, it got more money than Vas, Veszprém, Tolna or Zala County in total. This is one side of the frying pan. On the other hand, we see that small settlements, which are disadvantaged without their own faults, receive only a few hundred thousand forints, which, by the way, is not enough for anything, and in many cases not even one month's rent. Here, for example, if I only look at my constituency, Klárafalva settlement, which received 400 thousand forints, required 15 million forints, which, by the way, is not enough for two months' electricity bill. But I could list the settlements: Bagamér, Asaló, Csörg, Terény, Csierák, Somlóvecse and others. János Lázár made a statement that party politics is important, but it can never override the interests of the settlements, the communities, it is our first. This is very commendable, for Mr Lazarus has repeatedly made such statements in the election campaign. I would have asked him, but I suppose the Secretary of State will answer why it is then that Fidesz-led settlements receive disproportionately and unjustly more money than small settlements, which, apart from their own faults, are disadvantaged and also in the interests of communities. On what grounds, though, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] has the aid been allocated? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-12-23-2-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You referred to Mr. Lazarus' sentences. I think that there is great truth in that; party politics, our political set-up are obviously important; life in our operational fund has meant a significant role for party politics. At the same time, I might add that our government's Minister for Local Government did not make a statement in which he made party policy decisive in supporting the municipalities. In fact, the funding of municipalities has been in the middle of serious debates for a long time. If we look at municipal funding over the last 24 years, we can see that in the 2000s the municipalities reached the limit of their viability. In the 2000s, from 2004-2005 to 2009, the large-scale debt that the Member also spoke about developed. In particular, in the case of Pécs, 2005, 2006, 2007 were the years when the city was most indebted and that is why the government had to take over the debt. Speaking of debt, Member, and speaking of which, the debt transfer was also a very good example of the fact that the government did not examine the municipalities on the basis of party politics. It was decided that, in order for municipalities to be able to maintain their operational capacity, in order to be able to develop in the next development cycle, their debt would have to be assumed, and this has been done. Each municipality, regardless of the colour of the leadership, could get rid of the debts. Pécs is obviously a city in difficulty. He's done a lot of work. For example, the European Capital of Culture has undertaken a great deal of work to improve Hungary's reputation. Maintaining this network of institutions puts an extremely heavy burden on the city, which also causes the city to have significant financial problems. One element of municipal funding is the aid for maintaining operational capacity. Basically, task funding ensures the operation of municipalities. When task financing was set up, the government said that, during the transitional period, it would obviously be necessary to operate a balancing system that would help local authorities through the changeover period. It is already apparent that this type of special support needs are smaller than in previous years, and that next year's budget corrections, which have now been adopted, ensure that in the coming years such specific needs are as small as possible. Operating grants were awarded on a professional basis. It was essential and important that these subsidies were available for operation, not for development, not for payment of parts of themselves, because there are opportunities for this through different subsystems. The Member also had specific references. For example, the municipality of Uska. It has to be said that in the first half of the year, he received HUF 9.3 million in support, which was 90 percent of his claim at that time, so at this second stage, he received really less support. In the case of Csörg, a lower amount of aid was established because the majority of the municipality's request was supported by development needs. Overall, I can say that the committee has taken a professional position and that it has been adopted. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Sándor Szabó if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-12-23-2-103	I can't accept the answer, Mr. Secretary. If we look at the data and you're talking about distribution on a professional basis, I'll give you a few stats. The highest score was 21 settlements with Fidesz leadership. By the way, 43 percent of the 12 billion were taken by these settlements, 5.2 billion forints. The remaining 1156 settlements, Mr. Secretary of State, 57 percent, received the remainder of the 12 billion. By the way, the budget for the least 21 municipalities was 0.02 percent, Mr Secretary of State. By the way, speaking of Pécs, after the inaugural meeting, the city of Pécs decided to borrow HUF 10 billion immediately. I don't know what you're talking about. Thank you.
u2014-12-23-2-104	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Congressman János Volner, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. What further steps does the government intend to take to whiten the profession of property protection, to improve the situation of property guards? It's an address. Congressman János Volner, please. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]]
u2014-12-23-2-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, You are certainly aware that more than 100,000 people are working in the asset protection sector, and a significant number of people working in the asset protection sector are either not reported or are active in the grey economy. This blissful state has a very simple reason. There is currently no guaranteed hourly fee that will be paid to the asset protection company, so the asset protection company will be free to compete on the market. It is very often the case that, in order to be paid to an undertaking at least the employee's minimum wage, the property protection company would have to receive an hourly fee of HUF 1100-1200 to ensure a permanent presence at the property protection workplace with replacement, shift allowances and annual freedom. In order for this company to work, the company's costs should be included, according to the firm and the government's approved calculations, about HUF 1800 per hour should be billed so that the employee is registered and the company can fulfil its operating obligations in this area. On the other hand, if we go to any of the large multinational companies, there is a very good chance that they will be contracted with various very low-priced contracts, with an hourly rate of 700-800 forints. Obviously, this does not include the cost of hiring a security guard in the property protection area. Consequently, this man will not be announced, he will be active in the black economy himself and the company that employs him. [[15.20]] In order to whiteen the sector and resolve the situation of workers in this area, Jobbik has also proposed to the government in the last cycle to introduce mandatory minimum hourly rates, as this is the way to ask businesses why they do not comply with the employees' announcements, why they do not pay taxes on them. However, this was only in the case of property protection firms in the public sector, and it is still not typical for the private sector. And here is the question, Mr. Secretary of State, that you want to continue with the windmill fight that is currently going on, that you report regularly on procedures, huge tax deficits in relation to various asset protection companies, or that the government finally chooses to take meaningful action: it requires companies to pay the minimum minimum hourly rate that they have to pay guaranteed to asset protection companies and makes the amount of tax paid accountable to companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You say the following in the first sentence of your interpellation submitted:. Jobbik welcomes and supports the introduction of a minimum fee for property protection services. We believe that the measure we have long advocated is the first important step in improving the position of the asset protection profession. So that's what you submitted, and that's how I answer the first part of your question. As far as the rest is concerned, I would like to inform the Member with respect of the whitening of the property protection sector. The priority areas of control of the labour authority include the personal and property protection sector. Labour inspections, employers and workers in the sector are regularly affected. In order to reduce abuses, the authorities have the possibility to examine the main contractor during the labour inspection. Under the rules of the main contractor's liability, the employer who actually exists will be sanctioned. Following the amendment of the Act governing the protection of persons and property in 2012, the undertaking carrying out the protection of persons and property may conclude contracts with an additional undertaking only with the prior consent of the undertaking initially entrusted with the task and the contractor shall no longer be able to contract with any other subcontractors in order to carry out the contract. I think this is a significant step forward from before. Although this provision does not preclude a main contractor from using several subcontractors at the same time, each of them must conclude contracts with the main contractor and their activities must not constitute a chain. The contractor used for the performance of the contract may not use an individual contractor as a sub-contractor; only employed persons and property guards who are employed in the performance of the contract may be employed for the performance of the contract. The amendment of the regulation has greatly simplified control tasks and, as a result, experience has shown that the endless long chain of subcontractors has ceased. This is a significant step forward from before. The conditions for the pursuit of the activity and the monitoring of its effectiveness shall be laid down in the legislation providing for the rules on the protection of persons and property, as well as for the enforcement of the activities of a private investigator. These include detailed rules for the taking up, pursuit, control and sanctioning of personal and property protection and private investigation activities. Honourable Congressman, Official controls of activities covered by these legislation are currently carried out by police, NAV and labour authorities. Consequently, those engaged in personal and property protection and private investigation activities are subject to close checks of different aspects in order to ensure that the fundamental guarantee rights of workers are respected as widely as possible. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr János Volner if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-12-23-2-109	I cannot accept this answer, Mr Secretary, and the reason for that is simple. I told you about the situation where a trust firm doesn't get the money, say, from a multinational corporation, for which it's possible to report the employee at all. We don't have the payroll. Therefore, you do not demand that you pay the Hungarian company at least the equivalent of the minimum wage, because this would mean that the company should be accountable for what is going on with the employees' announcements. You choose to try to fight against the black economy in a market where 90 percent of contracts contain items of property that - with a noble simplicity - cannot legally employ workers. So this is not a sensible fight, it is not a forward-looking situation, so I cannot accept this answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask whether the Honourable Parliament will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstention. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will there be planned water management in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The Water Framework Directive is the regulation of the European Union which would provide the basis for water management, as far as possible, in accordance with the ecological criteria in the country; this should be done in such a way that rural development aspects and agricultural aspects are not damaged, but that the good ecological status of the waters is not threatened. The Water Framework Directive has been in force in Hungary since 2004, and Hungary has been subject to infringement proceedings since 2008. Technically, the government plans to start this in the 2014-20 cycle. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] In my question, I was trying to find out from the Minister whether there is a real chance that we can end the constant playing with nature, resulting in successive floods and inland waters, and a few months after that drought. In our opinion, in a nutshell, there would be a way of doing this if the practice of developing ecological reservoir capacity in the waters were to be implemented and the practice of arable farming in places that were once river beds, were not suitable for it, and a much higher proportion of landscape management would be present. At the same time, on the question of interpellation, I drew attention to the fact that there are still a number of specific sources of pollution that, in the course of the unsustainable nature of water management, are taking into account or operating throughout the Danube and the Tisza, which pose a major threat not only to the good ecological condition, but also to basic environmental safety. My question was whether the government intends to see the country's social, water and environmental issues in their context and to align the objectives of the Water Framework Directive with those of rural development that gives people a better life. Is the government planning to improve the ecological status of the waters and to achieve the aim of the Water Framework Directive for sustainable water management in Hungary? And if so, how and when will this start, it will begin, when can we see the first steps of this? For the past four years, unfortunately, this has not happened. Possibly Other Politics asks the government and asks whether there is a chance that sustainable water management with ecological aspects can be achieved in Hungary, which can serve the interests of agriculture and thus the interests of the countryside at a much higher level. I look forward to your respectful response. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is from Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His question basically concerned whether there is a planned water management in Hungary today, and I can say that there is, of course, planned water management in Hungary. In Hungary, the water management system began to develop some 150 years ago. A system has been developed that cannot be transformed overnight. In order to implement a new water management system in line with new needs, it will take many years, decades and, of course, a lot of money. At the same time, changes to the new approach have started in many areas. Firstly, within the framework of the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, as well as the rural development programme, we have started implementing a new integrated, efficient water management policy, directly through the implementation of the Water Framework Directive. [[15.30]] In addition, the ecological principles set out in the Framework Directive apply indirectly across all operational programmes. Based on the strategic objectives of the national development policy set out in the Partnership Agreement, the rural development programme was developed in line with the agricultural and rural development objectives set out in the EU 2020 strategy and the Common Strategic Framework Programme and the Common Agricultural Policy and the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. Within the rural development programme, the objectives of the Water Framework Directive are met, on the one hand, by measures that promote the management of the Ancient-Drava programme as a key government objective and water management development adapted to climate change, based on water retention, such as compensation payments linked to the Water Framework Directive. On the other hand, measures directly contribute to the objectives of the Framework Directive, such as improving water damage relief efficiency, supporting water retention facilities, agri-environmental measures or so-called compensation payments in areas with natural handicaps. The integrated water management approach set out in the EU Flood Directive has already been a guide for flood development. In addition, the project on the basis of which the flood development programme will be renewed by the end of 2015 will still be developed in accordance with the provisions of the Flood Directive. The further development of the Vásárhelyi Plan on integrated development not only aimed at reducing the level of floods, but also at the nature of water management and rural development, as you said was missing. The flood peak reservoirs therefore also have technical structures that allow low water deposition in the reservoir area to take place, which can provide for the possibility of close management of nature and enrichment of groundwater. Along the small watercourses the construction of rainporters and reservoirs protecting settlements has begun, the renewal of the Tisza-Körös water supply system in the valley of the Tisza valley, which will improve the water supply of the Great Plain. Finally, Mr President, on a number of points, he mentioned the red sludge reservoir VII of the apple fryer. In this regard, I would like to inform you that the competent authorities have carried out a monthly visit and inspection of the area by tightening the statutory half-yearly frequency between 2012-14 and it has been found that the current situation does not require immediate intervention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman Sallai R. Benedek if he will accept the State Secretary's answer. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the answer because, as I said, infringement proceedings have been taking place against Hungary since 2008 in this regard, and compared to that, we are still hearing only a bunch of plans about what is going to happen, what is planned for, what is the intention of the government. That's not enough. Mr. Secretary. I've had the pleasure of spending the last two days at home on the border of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County and Békés County, and at the border I saw that the lawns are already in the middle of their knees, and there are many ploughers under water. The inland water is already here, and we have no action plan to deal with it. We have no idea what's gonna happen in the spring. The government's activity, which you call "planning water management," is basically about raising the dams year after year. It's like plugging in a volcano with a stopper, because you can't handle those risks with that kind of solution. I can't accept your answer because it's not a plan, it's a momentary solution. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-116	Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 111 votes in favour, 23 against and without abstentions. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the National Economy with the title of births and female employment at the summit. It is for Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-117	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance has taken very important measures to create a work-based society. Among these, the launch of the employment protection action programme announced in summer 2012 will be highlighted. In 2015, employment incentives, such as the job protection action, which has enabled 890 thousand people to be employed so far, will continue next year. Next year, there will be a part-time benefit for mothers, which was introduced in 2011, when the social security contribution was reduced from 27 per cent to 20 per cent. Gyed extra continues in 2015, which also encourages employers to employ mothers with small children through tax incentives. The employment of women aged 15-64 in the third quarter was 56.4 percent in Hungary, which, by the way, shows an increase of 3.4 percent compared to the same period in the previous year. In the last year, Hungary's indicators are growing four times faster than the EU average, making us the first among the 28 Member States in both quarters. In the fall in the unemployment rate, we have also maintained our first position. In our country, unemployment has improved nearly four times faster than in the EU in the last year. This is also true of mothers raising young children, i.e. we have seen our actions over the past two years to improve female employment. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the latest statistics, this year nearly 2,000 more children were born in the first ten months of the year than in the same period of the previous year, so there is a high chance that the highest birth rate of the last five years will be reached this year. The improvement in the trend may prove to be lasting, since the extra introduction of ged will only now have a positive impact. We also brought other incentive programs, such as the family home creation program. Dear Secretary of State, The number of births and female employment have also shown an unprecedented increase. The Hungarian model is therefore good and successful. Dear Secretary of State, Are there additional tools, plans, opportunities to further help families to work and to have children? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State András Tállai. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-119	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the first two quarters of 2014, the employment rate of women in Hungary has indeed improved the fastest in the EU. This clearly shows that, in addition to supporting economic growth, the steps taken by the government to increase the number of jobs and strengthen families have also been effective. The improved financial security of families, the start-up of growth and, in particular, measures to support women's employment have led to a welcome increase in child birth. In terms of female employment, the European comparison indicates an accelerated catch-up compared to the EU average. As a result, we are now in the middle field between the 28 Member States. Recent data show further improvement. In the third quarter of 2014, the number of women in work had already exceeded 1.9 million, the highest since the crisis, but also since the change of regime. Since the change in government in 2010, 165,000 more women have been working, with an increase of nearly 10 percent. Of course, the turn of employment is not due to a single measure, but to a series of coordinated measures. This included helping women to work on both the demand and supply side of the labour market. We have broadened the possibility of working to raise children, by transforming the tax system, which you mentioned, and we have made it more favourable for women to work and to have children. On the other hand, we have given employers an interest in employing disadvantaged workers, including women, in a targeted reduction in the costs of employment. Now allow me to present some of the important elements that have been implemented recently as a result of the government's decision. [[15.40]] The first is better regulation of flexible working opportunities as of 1 July 2012 in the Labour Code. In doing so, we have made it possible for women with children to better coordinate work and family tasks. Second: With the introduction of the ged extra from 1 January 2014, parents can work for an unlimited period after the child's one-year period of care. At the end of the third quarter of 2014, this option supported the employment of some 15 thousand parents with small children. Third, we have increased domestic and EU resources for employment programmes in order to facilitate the integration of women into the labour market. In the last two years alone, we have spent HUF 27.2 billion on improving women's employment opportunities, helping some 43,000 women. The fourth is that the job protection action plan has also launched significant positive processes, which have helped some 40,000 women return to work. This program will, of course, be continued, for example, for part-time employees a tax reduction of HUF 100,000 will be available in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I could add points, indeed, the results of the government's decisions are clear, as the number of births in the first 8 months was nearly 3 percent higher and the number of marriages was 3.6 percent higher than in the previous year. We hope that the positive process will continue and strengthen, and more and more children will be born in Hungary, in Hungarian families. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Lajos Korózs and István Gábor Harangozó applaud.]]
u2014-12-23-2-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2014-12-23-2-121	Thank you very much. Mr President, Your Honour, Secretary of State. Of course I accept the answer [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is our joint success, the joint success of the government and Fidesz-KDNP, that we have finally achieved a breakthrough in the rise in the number of children born. For the Fidesz-KDNP Association, it is very important that all the desired children are born. Politicians are responsible for improving the conditions through the law. It is important for us that the lives of families who are having children are raised, and also take up work, help, support, and support. That's why I accept the answer. We would like to see as many economic policy instruments as possible next year here at Parliament's table, which will strengthen and help this process more. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Member Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. At the end of the year, the early retirement pension will disappear? It's an address. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think we can say to you a hundred times between the walls of this House that it doesn't matter to you, that you are not touched by what is happening to early pensioners and a multitude of people with other human problems - it doesn't affect you. An example of this has been in recent times when we have said, when we have said all this, yes, in Hungary, here in Hungary, why the pension system for early retirement should be dealt with. Look, it's because in the days after the first parliamentary change in 2010, you promised the ladies a 40-year post-employment pension. They lied to their eyes, and then they're allowed to retire after 40 years. In addition to the period of service, the system of early retirement was changed by sweeping away the early retirement scheme in 2012 and introducing pre-age benefits. Now, in 2015, they are creating a shameful situation that is about the fact that people are no longer entitled to beneficiaries. This is Hungary today. This is Hungary today! Ladies and gentlemen, Fellow Members! The biggest problem is that you know that those bus drivers, train drivers, gay workers, miners, people working under radiation threat, Paksians and not Paks are being unfairly dealt with by you who have been doing their work for decades under working conditions, after which you are entitled to expect discounts. The problem is that you don't take into account health damage, the problem is that you don't take into account the psychic pressures, the consequences of which can cause problems and accidents in people's lives. Then I don't know how they'll account for themselves when all this happens. But it doesn't matter to you if the street says that, and we're not talking about it in the walls of Parliament. It does not matter if bus drivers collect signatures, if trade unions and interest representatives demonstrate, if drivers write letters to Orbán, nothing matters. You've decided there won't be an age discount, people will be punished. He will be punished in any way, in this regard, and in other ways. I think they're on a very bad path. Basically, I'd like to ask you, but I don't want to ask you that either. But I'm going to ask you some questions. Then I'd like to ask you why you're doing all this. Why do they do this when employers pay that 13 percent bonus in advance? Why? Why? ! It is also not in the interest of public finances. But I'm not interested in public finances. I'm interested in tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people who are being held against the wall like this. Why do they do it? What's the point? How are you going to face these people and their families when these people suffer a lot of accidents because you brought this to life? Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-23-2-124	Thank you very much. The answer can be heard from the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the early retirement scheme has not been part of the pension scheme since 1 January 2012, given that, as a rule, old-age pensions can only be established from the retirement age. Early retirement pensions, including early retirement pensions, have been converted from 2012 to early retirement benefits. Jobs with current early benefits have been defined for several decades, which are scientifically unfounded, and there are no studies that demonstrate the effectiveness of the system operated, such as health preservation, age extension and the sustainability of quality of life. It is enough to point out that working conditions have changed significantly, professions have ceased, new professions have emerged in practice. The system of early care does not serve prevention, does not mean guaranteeing the health of people employed in each job, nor does it mean an extension of age. Basically, the redemption of the health and years of life of the people concerned, with a few years' leave. Since the system, as I mentioned, is not based on scientific grounds, it is subjective to such a degree that it can sometimes be unfair. The extent of possible work-related health damage varies, which is not reflected in the current system. It is no coincidence that eight years ago the decisions taken by the previous government, which, among other things, repealed the list of jobs and put the burden of the system on employers, made age reduction a front for interest representatives and employment policy. What is certain, however, is that the concept and practice of early retirement is contrary to the spirit of employment health, occupational safety and occupational safety laws. The Labour Code and the Labour Protection Act oblige the employer to ensure the conditions for non-healthy and safe work. To this end, each employer should have a risk assessment in the framework of occupational safety or occupational health activities in which it is required to fully assess the risks to the health and safety of workers. In view of this, maintaining the early discount system in its current form is not justified professionally, ethically and economically. Honourable Congressman, In addition, it should be stressed that early care does not cease, with about 10,000 currently receiving care receiving the allowance. The source of expenditure on pre-age benefits is the National Fund for Family and Social Policy, and the resources necessary for the payment of benefits will continue to be insured in the 2015 budget. The rights acquired are not lost, either, all concerned workers working at least the minimum period of entitlement in the beneficiary jobs may continue to avail themselves of the benefit in the form of a pre-age benefit without limitation. However, after the retirement of an outdated early retirement pension, in the workplace, where the effects on the worker resulting from the increased abuse of the organisation cannot be fully eliminated, we see the possibility of creating a system in principle with occupational protection and occupational health measures, in which possible health harm to workers can be prevented by either working time reduction or split job. [[15.50]] It is important to develop a flexible solution with long-term sustainability. For workers and employers [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] This should be predictable and based on the agreement of the parties. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mr Nándor Gúr whether he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2014-12-23-2-127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you shouldn't read every nonsense. At least you should think about reading what you read. It's simply because you're acting against the people with the reading you've done before, not for them. This is your fundamental political flaw in my values. You know, when we talk about early retirement, we could talk about the price of the M0 motorway, but we could talk about the cafeteria, we could talk about the lower minimum wage, a lot of other things, the civil servants who hadn't received a single penny of civil servant's salary increase five years ago, during your administration, and we could talk about thousands of other things, even the issue of Internet taxation. That's your philosophy. Scratch people, pull all the skin off them, and make you and your clientele rich. You know, Mr. Secretary, that's why the streets are gonna sweep you away. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Like the wind of garbage. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-128	Thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 110 votes in favour, 34 votes against and no abstentions. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: You have to wait a little longer, Nándor.]] Member György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. What is the truth of the WELT 2000 Kft. Buying it? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, On 11 October 2013, the Government issued 1731/2013. It provided for the implementation of the single IT and monitoring system for the 2014-2020 programming period through a State-owned organisation. In previous years this task has been carried out by WELT 2000 Kft. the government decision intended to break off with this practice, the state ownership of the IT system that manages the entire EU support system, supports its processes and contains all relevant data of the data subjects is in the interest of national security. The objective of the government decision is therefore indeed correct, and it is in the interest of all Hungarians to achieve it. Unfortunately, however, the national strategy objective set out in the Government Decision has not yet been met. The IT system for submitting FAIR applications, published on 3 November 2014, was developed by a company without a trace of the Hungarian state among its owners. What is even more shocking is that this company is none other than the above mentioned WELT 2000 Kft. Despite the government decision, therefore, after more than a year, the high-risk and, not least, costly practice, which also marked the 2007-2013 cycle, which the government has repeatedly promised to put an end to. At the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014 several press articles and press announcements were dealt with by WELT 2000 Kft. by buying it. More specifically, on March 1, 2014, Nándor Csepreghy reported that the company was purchased by the State, according to unofficial information, the purchase price was around HUF 800 million, but there is no record of this transaction in the public register. More shockingly, on the 14th of November 2014, Government Decree No 282/2014 was published, which already states by law that WELT 2000 Kft. The Prime Minister's Office must buy its majority stake in the public interest for reasons of national strategy. I ask, Minister, which state-owned organisation operates the single IT and monitoring system for the period 2014-2020. Why was the spokesperson responsible for development policy not telling the truth at WELT 2000 Kft. in connection with the purchase of several times? What is the truth of Welt 2000 Kft. about buying it? How much will this cost the Hungarian people? Finally, what do you intend to do, Minister, to find and account for those responsible for the development and existence of a high national security risk, in particular, that this prodigal practice has existed for nearly ten years now and has resulted in a dividend of around half a billion forints a year [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] WELT 2000 Kft. For its owners? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-130	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-23-2-131	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the opportunity to inform the Parliament that not only changes in content, not only in complexity, but also in information technology have occurred and are taking place in the next period of use of EU funds. In 2013, when I took over the supervision of European Union funds in Hungary as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office on the basis of the Government's decision, my main aim was to ensure that the institutional system became a national interest as soon as possible, so, perhaps you remember, I asked colleagues working at the National Development Agency to represent the interests of Budapest rather than Brussels. At the same time, as I am convinced that the distribution of some HUF 7000 billion between 2007-14 depends to a decisive extent on the efficiency of the IT system, I asked for and suggested that the Hungarian State buy it, recover the IT system that is involved in the whole European Union's financial complexity. Large amounts of money have been paid to private entrepreneurs each year to benefit from the control and payment of EU funds in Hungary. It is no consolation that this was a Hungarian enterprise, nor is it any consolation that the system was working well. It fell outside the interests of the Hungarian State, the Hungarian State lost the possibility of control that the control of the IT system could have provided. To this end, we started negotiations in the autumn of 2013, and as a first step, the National Infocommunication Service Provider, NISZ Zrt. it took over the operation of the system, we agreed with the owners, and from then on the system is no longer Welt 2000 Kft. is operated by NISZ Zrt. Indeed, Welt 2000 Kft. started the development of the next system, while negotiations on take-over took place. After 2010 the government was unable to acquire this group of companies between 2010 and 13, so I had no choice but to try to involve auditors and lawyers in business market conditions, of course effectively convince the parties concerned that they had to sell the company to the Hungarian State. However, one of the owners died on 2 March 2014 - many described this tragic event as an impact of this series of negotiations, which we rejected and reject most definitely today - and this unfortunate death slowed down negotiations, which were otherwise concluded with agreement on 1 March 2014, one day before his death. The year 2014 was required for the succession order to take place, for the audit assessment to be carried out, for the guardianship approval and for the signing of sales contracts. I can report to the Parliament that the contract of sale has been concluded, both the heirs of one of the deceased owners and the other owner have signed the sales agreement, and I have signed my signature in addition to a countersignation of attorneys, there has been a transfer and transfer of system improvements, and the registration of the court is in progress. The law firm representing the Prime Minister's Office has submitted the necessary documents to the Court of Justice. Our aim is that the so far fragmented IT system, which was four or five types of IT systems - rural development funds, European Union funds, cohesion funds - should be taken in one hand, and now a system that provides the Hungarian state with a complete control, control and supervision system, with the end of the purchase of the company. Two weeks ago, I signed the final sales contract, along with the widow on behalf of underage children and the lawyers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I believe that this step will provide an adequate guarantee for the Hungarian national aspects. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-132	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr György Szilágyi whether he will accept the Minister's reply.
u2014-12-23-2-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, There is a very important part in the development of the situation, such as the fact that there are responsible leaders who are still in office and in office, surviving cycles and changes of government, and thanking them very much. Waiting for these people to change this situation, and for this system to work normally, it might be a little excessive. [[16.00]] However, I thank you very much for your honesty, thank you very much for the detail you have shown us in this situation, and we can take it as a Christmas present: I accept the Minister's reply. [[Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and MEP Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. When will workers in the social sector receive a real wage increase? How long are they gonna be fooled? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-135	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, During today, we have heard a lot of signs of what year we have closed. We have heard that this was the year of the wage increase, and we have also heard how good it is for the ladies and how much the reproductive index is growing here, but we can be sure that this was the black year of the social sector workers. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] For the third time in the past year, social workers had to go out into the street, and that is why we have put on our interpellation with Mrs. Ildikó Borbély [[Defiance. Intercoms: It's called backwards! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Bangóné Borbély Ildikó.]] Mrs. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. [[Defiance. Applause in the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-12-23-2-136	I'm gonna count on these few minutes.
u2014-12-23-2-137	I'm enjoying the seat. While there have been relatively wage increases in other sectors - we have had such an argument with the Secretary of State on this issue - there have been no wage increases at all in the social sphere, and even if we look at the current wages, we must conclude that the last time we had a relative wage arrangement was six years ago. In this debate, Mr Secretary of State pointed out that this year, too, there was a wage increase, and that is just under the terms of State Secretary Soltés. Well, I would like to tell you, Mr State Secretary, that there has been no wage increase in the social sector, because this is the wage supplement that the workers in the sector have received, I do not underestimate the extent of this, but it is not wage development, because a wage supplement can be taken at any time, it can be suspended at any time, and it can be reduced at any time. During his hearing in the spring, the Minister said: "We sat down at the social round table and launched a social career. I understand that, of course, but I think that you can't buy bread from the social career; you can't buy bread for people working in the social field. When foreign colleagues at international conferences ask us how much they pay, and we tell them that, they think it's a weekly wage, not a monthly salary. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[László Földi is replaced by Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat.]] During the summer, we asked the wallet a question, and in the answer to the question, the social wallet sent us the following. The main objective of the negotiations is to move in a positive direction the wages, working conditions and social perceptions of social workers, and a sub-group on wage replacements, promotions and benefits has therefore been established. I understand that they're always setting up a committee, but I've seen over the last few years that if anything the government doesn't want to solve, they're definitely going to set up a committee. [[Noise.]] If there's money for stadiums, then let's make money for the social sphere. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] for the development of wages as well! [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would like to quote from 2007 a politician who said about the 2007 budget for the social system that I am aware of the state's normative nature. This is why this politician defended the 2007 government measure, which reduced the level of normative care by HUF 100,000, reduced the institutional normative of a grooming person by HUF 30,000 at a non-upped level, and said that this was a good measure at the time, in 2007, because the neighbours and friends will be able to better care for the elderly, sick and otherwise in need of social care. My question is, who was this politician? [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the governing parties: Lajos Korózs.]] That's right, Lajos Korózs was this politician. [[Delightful, applause in the pro-government benches.]] Our colleague, Mr Korózs, was not concerned about the social sphere at the time - we are in 2007, the global economic crisis has not yet broken out, only the consequences of the blessed work of the then Gyurcsány government could be enjoyed in the social sphere - and then in the following year, perhaps as State Secretary, he supported the removal of the 13th month's benefit for those working in this sphere. [[Uproar, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] And now he stands up here and says, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , it is true that in 2014, this year, from 1 January, we introduced a sectoral wage supplement for social workers, we provided HUF 12 billion in this budget and in the next year's budget, but this is limited and says that we need more. The latter is his first statement that we can agree with. Indeed, these people deserve more, but, honourable Member, the government is moving gradually, and we were able first to make a larger wage increase in the area of teachers - the wages of teachers have increased by 30-40 percent -; the social sector workers have increased by 5-11 percent, which is at least not a decrease in your time, nor in norm, nor in wages, but in growth. We're gonna try to move this into a career next year and move it on. Of course, the preliminary condition for this is that the changes in the social sphere that we are planning to make next year, and that if the system itself has been transformed, then, of course, we can start the social sector's career, and they themselves can also receive a wage increase later. But this sectoral wage supplement, which you have underestimated here - and this has been the first wage increase for years - was covered by 12 billion dollars in both this year's and next year's budgets. We have also tried to agree with the unions, who have negotiated with the government together, you said that there were several committees, and at the beginning of October - I do not remember exactly which day, but perhaps on the 8th - they were in our ministry. Then we agreed on a draft text, a joint agreement. A month later, we were looking forward to the representatives of these organisations, not to change the text of the agreed agreement, but to come and sign it with the Minister of State for Social Affairs, but to opt for the demonstration. Regardless of all this, the work of people who may spend their working hours tomorrow night, on Christmas Eve, taking care of elderly, sick, in many cases helpless and unable to take care of themselves, makes their lives somewhat more bearable. We hope that Hungary's growing economic performance will also provide us with a greater opportunity to work for people who care for other people on Christmas Day, their appreciation and their wage increase next year. Thank you very much, and I ask you to accept my answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-141	Thank you, Mr. President. You know, Mr. Secretary, for a KDNP politician, I would be very ashamed of myself right now. [[Uproar, noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] You who speaks of the sanctity of Christmas [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and talks about the social sphere, you know who you're talking about? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Yes. 97,000 people.]] Social workers, social workers, domestic workers, daycare workers, kindergarten technicians, school technicians who were last paid in January 2008. You fooled this 100,000 people! [[Intercoms, noise from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] You know, these people have a minimum of life, it doesn't matter if they have a 40-year-old working relationship or a one-year-old working relationship. And, you know, Mr. Secretary, these people have been deceived again. You've given up 100,000 people again. Do you know what it's like to have 100,000 people? People who work for children work for fallen people, retirees. Not as cocky politicians as you, sitting here in Parliament! [[The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-23-2-142	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the State Secretary's reply, so I'll ask the Parliament if she'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 108 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention. Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, Now what is in the Eger Emergency Department? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács, please.
u2014-12-23-2-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, the situation in Eger has been known for three weeks, because according to some information, six doctors in the Eger hospital, according to other information, have resigned from the emergency room. [[16.10]] The reasons for the terminations are said to include poor working conditions, inadequate technical and personal capacities and reduced numbers after 2010. Since then, the department has been trying only to replace the existing situation, the problem of which is that doctors with internal medicine and surgery and pediatric exams are able to perform and perform the on-call tasks that emergency specialists should perform. Another problem is that one specialist and one resident doctor are currently on duty instead of 4-5 doctors. Unfortunately, the case shows that the Eger case, the Eger shortage, and the Eger emergency doctors have become precedents, because this has never happened in the country before. It seems that the management of the hospital and the head of the institution seem to be on top of the situation and that they do not seem to be interested in the solution, since they say that the current situation is not an additional burden for the workers or the staff. The Director General and the chief of staff said that there was no danger to care. On the other hand, if you are a little familiar with emergency care, you can clearly see that this is not a reassuring response. It is not reassuring, however, because the patient's representative himself said that he received much less complaints from the surrounding hospitals and the surrounding clinics, by number 30-40 percent less complaints from the care facilities than he received from the Eger hospital itself and the Eger emergency department itself, so it shows that the patients are starting to turn away from the ward. But the problem isn't just Eger's problem. Hospitals with a larger supply area, such as Gyula, Kaposvár, Miskolc, have the same problem, and these hospitals may be in the same situations, because there is a shortage of doctors and even a lack of residents in these settlements due to legislative changes. Another problem is that the career model has still not been developed. The solution would be precisely these, so I ask the government to pay attention to them. And I'm asking you, Secretary of State, in light of what you've heard, please explain exactly what's going on at the Eger hospital. Can you feel the weight of delaying the settlement of medical payments and the introduction of a complex career model? How many Egers have to happen either in emergency care or in the operation of the whole department to get their attention, Mr. Secretary of State? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-144	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-145	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is good for morale to enlarge the problems and distort the facts, and it is capable of influencing the public, but it is not at all a sign of the intention of improvement. In the emergency care department of Egri Markhot Ferenc Hospital, patient care is ongoing despite all the rumors. During the last two months, labour problems have been accumulated in the department, but hospital managers have dealt with this situation in accordance with the relevant legal requirements and treated all patients. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr I would like to inform you that the still old ESZCsM Decree on minimum professional conditions for the provision of healthcare services provides for the medical number and qualification requirements required for the so-called emergency care department at the level of progression, as follows: per shift, there should be a head of the department, head of the shift specialist who has either an anesthesiology and intensive therapy exam or an emergency exam; and another specialist who may be anesthesiologist, intensive therapy specialist, emergency specialist, but may also be a physician, surgeon, traumaologist, neurologist, pediatrician, pulmonary physician, cardiologist, urologist, obstetrician and gynaecologist, and two resident doctors. So this is what the legislation says. The application of doctors with other exams other than emergency examinations is therefore the result of professional rules and of professional equivalence, taking into account interchangeability, and is not an attractive solution from the budgetary side, as the Member assumes. The supply conditions there therefore comply with the legal requirements. Since the operation of an emergency department is mandatory by the hospital, if a sufficient number of doctors are not available in the emergency department, the operation may or should be ensured by the use of doctors or contributors from other departments. That's what the Eger hospital does. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the assessment of the data quoted in the press statement of the patient's representative leads again to a wrong conclusion if the reference is made to institutions with a significantly smaller supply area and patient traffic than the Eger hospital itself. In particular, data are misleading when comparing the number of complaints regarding emergency care to hospitals where there is not only no emergency department but also active care. Honourable Congressman, It is well known that the issue of human resources in Hungarian health is a decade-long problem. Under the direction of the State Secretariat for Health, there are now legislative stages of measures called for and going beyond by the Member. At the same time, let us not forget that in the last four years there have already been a great deal of important measures to increase the reputation of health workers. Our doctors and nurses received a wage increase in 2012 and 2013. The wage increase affected nearly 100,000 people, about 97,000 people. In the last two years, average gross earnings in hospitals, clinics and other institutions increased on average by 27 percent. Since 2010, several measures have helped to simplify the system of specialist training and improve the situation of residents. Many obstacles have been distracted, and in the most difficult human resources professions there has been the introduction of deficit support, and I could still list the measures if I had more time, but I would ask you to take this into account and accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-12-23-2-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I can't accept the answer. You have not resolved any of the doubts previously expressed by the Director General or the Chief Officer, and you have failed to reassure this situation. And I think that when you say that it's a morale thing, it's going to be the real moody thing to do when, on the extreme long holiday weekend and in the on-call system for the holiday, patients keep coming, and there won't be enough doctors to take care of these patients. Now, that's the real spirit. On the other hand, what you're saying, and what you've told us, is not a very nice message for the profession that will stand up for the whole weekend and the whole holiday, and will stand on duty, and instead, work for us, shoulder to shoulder, and maintain the emergency system, the on-call system. I just can't accept what you've said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-148	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply 106 yes, 31 votes not, without abstention. I wish you a blessed, graceful Christmas holiday and a peaceful, happy, full new year in results. I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab, the hour of immediate questioning. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2014-12-23-2-149	Welcome, fellow Members. Before we continue, I see a lot of people leaving this Chamber, let me take this opportunity to wish you a blessed holiday in my name and a very, very happy new year for all my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. We're going to talk about immediate questions. Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: "Can we have two straight sentences?" It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-150	I now turn to you for the peace of my small town, Mr. Lazarus. The Paks always expected precise, internationally outstanding, secure and economical operations from all Hungarian citizens. In return, all they asked for was predictability and all the trust that the Paks professionals could get. [[16.20]] In the last week, however, the city and the rumours have been disturbed both at home and in the national press, thanks to your response to last week's interpellation, which sounded like this. The government has decided to request the assistance of international managers with regard to the Paks I nuclear power plant, the nuclear power plant currently in operation. We will entrust an international bounty hunter company, and in order to ensure that everything is transparent and transparent, we will entrust it to Western managers - as much as possible - to operate at the moment part of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant I, because we consider it necessary to review a number of contracts and reduce operating costs. I'm asking you for precise, precise sentences. What exactly did the government decide about the Paks nuclear power plant or Paks II? Calm us down: it's not good for the press to know that hundreds of people are expected to be cut down at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to cut costs, is it? The fact that most of them want to entrust the operation of the power plant to international managers doesn't mean they're replacing the Paks Nuclear Power Plant's management of experienced professionals with foreign managers? And one more question: the loan for capacity maintenance in Paks was signed with the Russians with a maximum interest rate of 5%. What happens now that 17 percent of the base rate? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-12-23-2-151	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-23-2-152	Thank you very much for the opportunity for my fellow Member to talk about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant; that is not about enlargement, not about Paks II, but about Paks I - this is my answer to one of his first and one of his questions. At the same time, I take the opportunity to put my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, into the answer so that he can ask a well-founded question afterwards. The government has made two decisions. One has already been submitted to Parliament in the form of a law, the Paks II. I recommend a law to your attention, in which the government has decided to propose to the National Assembly that the National Atomic Energy Office be accompanied by the request of an international advisory body in Paks II. in relation to its implementation. Of course, this is for the purpose of providing international nuclear engineering expertise, professional industry, professional audiences with insight into Paks II. investment, the maintenance of Paks I. capacity, and I believe that it is in everyone's best interest to ensure transparency and transparency. Our other decision concerns the Paks I nuclear power plant. I believe that it is in the best interests of the country that, with regard to the operation of the Paks I nuclear power plant, how much electricity is produced there, everyone can see it crystal clear and accurate. In Hungary, there are few Hungarian companies with international weight, which have international powers, and foreign managers work for all such companies; the experience of involving one or more foreign managers in decisions has not reduced the value of the company, but has increased significantly. Under transparent circumstances, in accordance with international practice, we will select managers who are Paks II. they are involved in its management, and they make it clear to the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government in a transparent and transparent way how much electricity costs at Paks I. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-153	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2014-12-23-2-154	We read in his communication that it will be a guarantee to inform the international professional public. Not only should the international professional public be informed, but also the Hungarian people and Hungarian professionals. We have initiated the ad hoc committee so that you can do this enlargement in a transparent and transparent way. You voted against this, specifically at the committee meeting. If you wish to do this expansion transparently and transparently and trust in the knowledge of Hungarian experts in Paks, then we expect the ad hoc committee to be submitted by you or submitted by us. You know what? We'll put it in for us - it's Christmas. Please, support the government, support the majority of government for security, for the benefit of Paks professionals; and we very much hope that there will be no dismissal, and we very much hope that the Paks leadership will not be replaced by international experts. You know, we're under international surveillance. We're being supervised by the International Atomic Energy Office, and it's good as long as it's not about politics, but the International Atomic Energy Office. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you.
u2014-12-23-2-155	Thank you. Minister János Lázár is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2014-12-23-2-156	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure the Paks, the government's goal is to maintain Pakson's nuclear power plant capacity. To this end, we decided on Paks II. the creation of which was not supported by opposition parties, such as you, Congresswoman. You voted against your own settlement. [[Anita Herringes intervenes. Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] If we don't maintain capacity on Paks II, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be over in 2030. Let's be very clear about this. And the other thing is, he's very talkative. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Members, the situation is very talkative. How is it that news gets out that an international manager is coming, and everyone gets scared? I wonder what happens at Paks I. if everyone's scared of this news. [[Uproar, interrogations from the ranks of the MSZP, including Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: Because this is not a pipe factory, but a nuclear power plant. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to ask you the question...
u2014-12-23-2-157	The dialogue, please, fellow Members, stop. Here you go, Minister.
u2014-12-23-2-158	Thank you, Mr. President. What could happen to Paks I., that if we announce that a German director is coming, everyone will be scared; and how will it come from the appearance of a foreign manager that we are sending people away? [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: From what you said. That's what it comes from.]] We've heard some interesting reactions. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-159	I thank Minister for his reply and inform my fellow Members that Minister listened quietly to the questioner, and I think that the answer should also be heard. Thank you. [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: But he is not telling the truth. An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, [[In an interrogation:]] Congressman, another forum. Thank you. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question: å Third, what do you think of the luxury pool tax that you demanded in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa? It's an address. Minister of State has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2014-12-23-2-160	Péter Szijjártó has already given me the opportunity to deliver a windcock, but he still owes me the personal answer. I trust that, like John Lazarus...
u2014-12-23-2-161	Congressman...
u2014-12-23-2-162	... he'll have the courage...
u2014-12-23-2-163	Congressman, Congressman [[They're shutting down the microphone of the Novak Ancient.]] I'm waiting for your answer, not your comment. Thank you. [[Foreman Novak:...to finally stand up here and answer.]] I would like to inform the Member that he has to answer at the hour of the second question. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. 120 thousand failed credit agreements? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-12-23-2-164	I'll take it.
u2014-12-23-2-165	Yes, I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-166	Mr President, Dear House, Many families, without exaggerating: tens of thousands of families face very difficult Christmases, where the head of the family has to be very careful about what goes under the tree, and there are many places where the food and other basic needs are lacking. It can be seen that, while the so-called currency-credited settlement has created this situation, that over the years or even decades, some who have been unduly looted by a bank or a financial institution, there are still 120 thousand contracts, not exactly professionally, but can be called infallible, which the government plans virtually nothing with the owners or people behind them, at least in its action plan, which solution it offers for this otherwise large social group, what proposal it offers. As a campaign promise in 2010, the private failure institution was raised, which was then a promise in 2012 and then in 2014. They have now come to the point that, according to KDNP's announcement, there is already a chance of at least arguing about this in the House, but it is obvious that what took four years to do so would require an answer. And it would also require a clear answer as to how long the government intends to maintain this, and after the expiry of the eviction moratorium, the people who have already lost their homes, who are still partially protected by the eviction moratorium, and who, unfortunately, have not been able to or did not want to provide any help, will have to do so in a clear way. All in all, the question arises: is it permissible in a country in the heart of Europe to give up more than 100,000 citizens, seemingly or in any way, by the current government? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2014-12-23-2-168	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In his question, he once spoke of tens of thousands of families, and then he spoke of 120,000 families. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's tens of thousands! Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: Oh, come on!]] Somewhere you need to decide how many families, in your opinion, are in fact, and what kind of legal family you're talking about. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Just try to answer!]] One thing is certain: the four laws adopted by Parliament, which settle the fate of foreign exchange creditors in the first half of next year, now permanently apply to all customers in the current contract. We don't know that 120,000 people are out of this legal category. So everyone who has a legally valid contract against the financial institution is subject to accountability and forinting. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Countdown.]] The accounting. And anyone who has fallen out of this system has been offered a completely different solution - you know that - such as the National Asset Management System, where the National Asset Manager has already decided to purchase 25,000 real estate. I believe that it is an important aspect of the final solution that there are no tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of lawsuits, and that the settlement - because it has been returned to 2010 - took so long. It is certain that in the following year, when the settlement and forinting takes place, all foreign exchange-credited reduced repayments will be paid and will be exempt from exchange rate risk and refund the amounts taken unfairly by the banks. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-23-2-169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát.
u2014-12-23-2-170	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform Mr Secretary of State with the utmost restraint that the 120,000 are tens of thousands, twelve times ten thousand to be exact. We are talking about people who are either no longer able to repay the repayments due for their alleged debt, or who have serious problems or serious shortcomings in this regard. So, your forinting action plan, which you put together with the banks, doesn't settle the situation of these people, and after the moratorium is over, there's the best chance that the financial institutions will, with your authority, assign the percentages of people to be thrown out on the street. But we are talking about people, Hungarian people and families, so it would be their duty to at least at this time to give meaningful answers before a holiday that will be very difficult for these tens of thousands of people; tens of thousands, I repeat, that is all. And it is also very important to point out that if we are to be treated with such frivolous, condescending answers, at least with the institution of private bankruptcy, family bankruptcy or any gestureal solution, at least make it easier for these people to get under the tree, because it is untenable to stand next to the Christmas tree for members of any Hungarian family. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Unpredictable, without faith in the future, in such a medium and with such an attitude of secretary of state at all. So I'm asking you very much that, after a little restraint, [[The president's ringing again.]] guarantee real solutions to the victims. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-171	Thank you. Congressman, we have a minute. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-172	Thank you. Honourable Congressman, I don't want to convince you. If you have failed to convince any member of this government in the last four and a half years... - I would add that, for example, the legal preparation of foreign exchange lenders belongs to the Ministry of Justice, the National Asset Manager to the Ministry of National Development, and the accountability to the Hungarian National Bank. You're asking me for your information. So I do not wish to convince you, because you are not the one to be convinced, but the people involved must be convinced by the government, and I believe that with the steps that the government has taken since 2010, it can take at any time. The question was a total social problem, and I think that the government has found the solution that it can finally say at some point in the first half of next year that the fate of foreign exchange lenders has finally been settled in Hungary. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-12-23-2-173	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question, "When will the government realize that he is going wrong?" It's an address. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Never!]] It's for the congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I listened to you first with interest when you talked about bringing foreign managers to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. You used a justification that I find a little odd, because you said it was necessary to make the cost of the Paks electricity clear. Now, Minister, does that mean you don't know exactly how much the Paks electricity costs? Because that's what he said. The other thing I'd like to ask you is that you said you would choose these people in a transparent way. What exactly does that mean? Who are these experts coming to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: Transparents.]] This is interesting, too, because when it comes to tendering the Paks expansion, which you call capacity maintenance, they rejected the need for tender with the justification that they use Russian technology here at Paks I., and when it comes to enlargement, it is advisable that the Russians come to expand, because they know this technology better. Dear Minister, Does that mean that Russian experts are coming to the four Paks nuclear power station blocks that are now in operation? Because if their earlier justification stops, that's exactly what it means. Perhaps, Minister, this situation means that the Paks Pact, the Orbán-Putin Pact, was also part of the fact that not only the Russians can do Paks II, but they can also pass Paks I in some form? I mean, Mr. Secretary, you spoke of two decisions. One Paks II was involved in the appointment of an international advisory body to the OAH to look at enlargement. Can you tell me exactly what the coordinates of this decision are, so that we can clearly see which government decision or what decision you're referring to when you say that you've decided on this? Thank you for your reply.
u2014-12-23-2-175	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-12-23-2-176	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Not so long ago, the woman here in Parliament has repeatedly called for transparency on the members of the government and on the Prime Minister. Now, when the government has taken two decisions that can greatly strengthen the confidence, commitment and transparency of international public opinion in the current operation of the nuclear power plant and in the future, you suddenly change your horse, you put yourself in another position, which is an amazing achievement, I would not call it a political virtue, usually taxpayers do not repay you. But last week, you said something else, Congresswoman, you asked for something else. He called for transparency last week, now that there will be transparency, now that there is accountability, now that international standards are taken into account, that is the problem. We should decide what your position is, Congresswoman. It would be easier if you could tell us what you wanted, what information you received, or what request you received from the U.S. embassy, which company should build Paks' capacity maintenance, which American interest group would be suitable for the representative woman. It would be easier for you to say this in the end-of-the-year sense of honesty, because that is a much clearer position than what has been said so far. I would like to repeat our two decisions. One decision is to involve managers or managers in the day-to-day operation of the Paks I nuclear power plant. In choosing this, there is an international practice - who is familiar with it - that we will select the relevant managers or managers in accordance with international practice. At the moment, we know how much the Paks Nuclear Power Plant sells electricity to the Hungarian Electricity Works. We would like to gain insight into the reality of this price, and I believe that it is good to involve the international public in what is actually happening in Paks. You don't have to be so afraid that if Pakson's all right, then there's nothing to worry about here either the Socialist Party or other parties or other oligarchs. [[Zoltán Pride: Is that what you're saying? Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-177	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2014-12-23-2-178	If you respect my political performance, then I will not pay tribute to your communication performance, because I have asked you three questions, and you have actually answered one wrong. Now I'm beginning to suspect that this is a government decision. But he didn't say if the Russians were coming to Paks I or not coming to Paks I Blocks. And he didn't even tell me exactly what kind of transparency you call it, of course, or maybe it's not about the basis on which you choose these professionals. But I see you're afraid to answer, Minister. And I understand that you're afraid, because you're fishing in such confusion that you don't feel safe there, that you're going to have to make decisions like this, and you're going to have to find yourself in such an awkward situation. I understand your problems, but it would be nice if you told the taxpayers what taxes are spent on. What's not comforting is that you really want to expand this power plant without even knowing how much the power you're making there costs. From now on, I can't take the government's statements about cheap Paks electricity seriously, and nobody else in this country. [[16.40]] By the way, Minister, you mentioned in your interview that you could quit Paks. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] But it's cost-effective. What kind of expenses did you have in mind?
u2014-12-23-2-179	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-12-23-2-180	Thank you very much. I would like to make it very clear that we are the government's plan: we are not planning to involve Russian managers in the operation of the Paks I nuclear power plant; our aim is to involve managers or managers from the Western European or Western world in the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. I have told you the example: I have colleagues here who know you: MOL may have spent more than ten years helping professional Western managers to transform the company and to increase the value of the company significantly. In my view, this is a very good example in the large corporate world, in the operation of large companies, strengthening public confidence, and directing the attention of the international public to Paks, where appropriate, in a positive way. Paks II. In this case, we have concrete, accurate and presented to the European Commission that Paks II should be a member of the European Economic and Social Committee. how much the electricity produced will cost. I'm not Paks II. I was talking about Paks I.'s electricity price because you asked me about it. Paks II. I'd love to talk about electricity, but you asked Paks I. And by the way, I wish you a blessed Christmas. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-181	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Pál Völner, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. How does the 4-percent increase in real wages contribute to the increase in retail sales? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Dr. Völner on Pál's signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2014-12-23-2-182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent days, favourable statistics have been published on the situation of domestic retail. After more than 10 percent reduction in retail sales, which is one of the engines of the Hungarian economy between 2007 and 2010, it appears that significant improvements have also been made in this area in recent years. According to KSH data, retail sales have increased steadily over the past 16 months, with a total of 5.2 percent over a year. Similar important results have been achieved in the area of employment enlargement: employment has been continuously improving since 2010, with 400 000 workers growing over four years; unemployment has decreased in parallel: government measures have reduced the unemployment rate from 11 per cent in 2010 to 7 per cent. The government has also fought effectively to reduce the burden on the population: in contrast to what has been experienced in previous years, energy prices for Hungarian families are at one of the lowest levels throughout Europe. It is an unprecedented success since the change of regime that this government has been able to reduce the prices of residential gas, electricity and district heating by 25 percent. By autumn this year, Hungarian families have been saving more than HUF 334 billion since 1 January 2013. I ask the Secretary of State how these processes facilitate the recovery of internal consumption.
u2014-12-23-2-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-12-23-2-184	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is very important that we analyse how Hungary has been able to achieve that the Hungarian economy is able to make such an increase that it is at the forefront of the European Union, because in essence no one in Europe has expected this to happen. We trusted him, we were very optimistic, but to be able to finish in the first three places - and this is probably going to be the case by the end of the year with an increase of 3.2 percent - I think it is definitely a worthy achievement. There are obviously several components to this, and this is normal if growth is on several feet. So Hungary's export performance has always been decisive, it determines the investment, and the most important thing is how much consumption, domestic consumption, and how much people can consume. Obviously, the more they consume, the more it stimulates growth and reproduction, so an economy is healthy, and now, in 2014, in Hungary, as the Member said, retail sales, one of the key drivers of consumption, were able to grow every month. This is very, very important, because this indicates that people have more money for what they spend on themselves, on their families, on their own consumption, on their needs. Indeed, there are several components to this. One of them is that more people are working, as 400,000 more people are working in Hungary than four years ago, which determines that it is natural to increase internal consumption. But there's another element of this that I don't think I can tell you right now, and I'll try for the rest of the minute. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Pál Völner in return.
u2014-12-23-2-186	Thank you very much. Due to the low inflation environment and improved employment figures, real wages have increased steadily in the last two years, with almost 4 percent in the last 12 months, and more than 240 billion forints remained with Hungarian families this year, thanks to family tax incentives. Thanks to the positive processes, the development of retail sales has gained great momentum, the sector has been growing steadily for 16 months, and the growth rate has also increased by 0.8 percent in October compared to September. The expansion of retail trade is in our common interest and, therefore, the latest encouraging data in the sector is particularly welcome. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State how the 4-percent real wage increase contributes to the strengthening of retail.
u2014-12-23-2-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-188	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! Indeed, the rise and rise in incomes determine the growth of trade and consumption. But how can income increase, how can real income increase in Hungary, when the country has barely come out of the crisis, and yet, in a noticeable way, families buy much more? After all, it is daily news that, for example, they have never bought as much on Christmas as they are expected to have done today or until tomorrow, since the interest associations say that people have spent 800 billion, and that has never been so much. I think there is a large part of the government's performance, the reduction of the overhead you mentioned, the partial settlement and final settlement of the foreign exchange creditors next year, and not least the good fiscal policy, that the government is now able to launch career models in the public sector every year, which means that more people are getting more income and can spend more in retail. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-12-23-2-190	I'll take it.
u2014-12-23-2-191	Yeah. It's for the congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We're getting used to Fidesz trying to protect someone, so it's better to take it on the run, and unfortunately, it's not entirely new that Fidesz is asking people for protection money for this kind of weird protection. You have recently considered protecting people who use the M0 ring and using the opening stages of motorways in Budapest. Well, they chose a specific Fidesz mode of protection: they decided that in the future these people would have to pay 5 thousand forints a year to use these highways and opening stages. [[16.50]] Mr. Secretary. It's quite simply amazing! Mayors and representative bodies of the settlements protest regardless of party standing. Not only did Péter Gajda, the socialist mayor of Kispest, write a letter to the Minister in this matter, not only did the Assembly of Kispest vote for this resolution; otherwise, the Fidesz mayor of Gyál disapproves of all such ideas, and at all times, all reasonable people believe that making what was free to pay does not mean protecting people. It means one thing: protection money. Mr. Secretary. That's a crazy, crazy idea. You don't want to protect people in this way. Listen to the councils and mayors of the settlements, whether they are Fidesz or MSZP. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-12-23-2-193	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-12-23-2-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was a little surprised by your question, as Parliament's meeting on the subject has also started today, it is true that without an agenda, the MSZP proposal could not be discussed; this was discussed several times at today's meeting starting at 12 o'clock. You must have missed the fact that the handling of this issue does not belong to the Ministry of National Economy, but to the Ministry of National Development. But, to tell you the truth, it's strange that a opposition party, an opposition representative, would object to a system being fairer. The introduction of this system affects not only a highway, a highway, but also the whole country, the bypasses of cities with county rights, so a much fairer system will be created. And the protest of mayors who have been elected by people, and obviously, I do not talk about their size now, and only in the minute, that they have to pay for something they have not done so far, they do not have to think in a comprehensive system that the use of motorways and motorways in Hungary will be fair. And it is also natural that this public figure, the mayor of a given settlement, objects to this and tries to pressure decision makers not to introduce this system. This was decided by the government, so it is not a parliamentary decision, because it will not be regulated by law, the introduction of the system will take place. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , so motorways and motorways in Hungary will be paid, which have not yet been paid.
u2014-12-23-2-195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány in return.
u2014-12-23-2-196	Dear Secretary of State, I would just like to remind you that you are the Secretary of State of the Ministry that has planned this financial surplus for the budget, so it is legitimate that I ask you in this area. I still do not understand what is right about people who have never had to pay taxes like this before. I would like to draw your attention, by the way, to the fact that some people who travel only in the county make the system cheaper by making their annual freeway rentals undeniably lower for them, it is not yet possible that people who have not paid any money at this address will have to pay. Mr. Secretary. Feel free to bring in the county sticker with an important addition: those who have not paid for it so far should not have to. It would be a fair solution, but you have not known the meaning of this word in years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-23-2-197	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-198	Honourable Congressman, When we say that something will become just and that the system will be complete with a certain decision, there can be a part of certain people and groups of people that may be negatively affected. And on the basis of the example mentioned by you, this decision, the county vignette system will positively affect many people in Hungary, because they do not have to pay the full toll, the whole annual fee, but will make a substantial reduction in the amount of 5-10-15 thousand forints instead of 43 thousand forints, let's say they will make it to Budapest. The world is a compromise, and a decision has not only positive and good results, and we do people only good; decision, responsibility, governance means that unfortunately, decisions must also be made when we want to be fair and we introduce a system that, in a sense, [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Some people, by the way, will be affected much less, negatively. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] That's what I'm asking you to accept. You probably lacked these decisions in your administration, and that's why you're sitting in opposition. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. War rhetoric or a desire for peace? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-200	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We read this week's interview with you in the Watcher with a surprisingly mixed interest, which the media has examined and analyzed, especially in connection with the internal war in Fidesen, the war between veterans and young Titans. At the same time, you missed a very important point, as you mentioned the very interesting foreign policy aspects, the crisis in Ukraine and its aspects in Hungary twice in the extensive interview. Surprisingly, you have made a statement contrary to the official state department and defence position. He said that he was not preparing for consolidation governance, but for crisis governance based on war logic, which is the most likely scenario for Hungary at present. He said that Ukraine treats the Hungarians of Transcarpathia as hostages and called for effective protection of their interests. He condemned the United States of America, which reduced Ukraine to a war zone, where the US transports weapons and puts an iron curtain between Russia and the European Union in Ukraine, and turns the continent of Europe against Russia. He says, quite rightly, that this is against Hungarian interests and that Hungary must also negotiate peace in the current situation. This is completely contrary to what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and HM currently represent, which is constantly concerned about Ukraine's territorial integrity, providing assistance to the Ukrainian State in cyber defence and structural reforms, and the Ministry of Defence is naming it for Baltic military exercises and taking part in Lithuanian military exercises. My question is what information does the Secretary of the Secret Service have to take a position that is radically opposed to [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the official position of the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-201	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-12-23-2-202	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your questions. First of all, I would like to say that I can only confirm what I have said and that I do not intend to weaken it in any way. The confirmation is that I believe that the policy that seems to prevail in the United States of America, which looks at Russia as a war opponent, and which, in many political speeches, says that anyone who does not oppose Russia or who does not criticize Russia is a potential threat to America, coupled with the fact that the Republican majority is likely to make decisions that point towards the transport of weapons in Ukraine, will bring us much closer to a war situation than to remove us from it. That's what I think XX is. After three wars of the century - after World War I, World War II and the Cold War - Hungary can have the worst outcome of this conflict. This is my conviction, because both the first and the second world wars have resulted in a catastrophic defeat for us, a serious national tragedy and serious national consequences, and the years of the Cold War we all suffered in different ways, depending on how old we are. We can't be in the interest of a war situation. In addition, I would like to draw everyone's attention - this is what the interview was about - to the fact that in Europe's policy there is no way to reduce the views that broke down the Soviet Union in 1987-88-89 by building European social policy or the European economy together in a long-term Russia-Europe cooperation. It is not possible to allow anyone to draw another Iron Curtain between Europe and Russia, thereby, for example, causing harm to Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin. In my view, the main starting point of Hungarian politics in this conflict is that more than two hundred thousand Hungarians live in Transcarpathia, and we have a duty to protect them as Hungarians or as Hungarian citizens, Hungarians and Hungarian citizens. So I can only confirm what I said. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-203	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-12-23-2-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you very much for the Minister's reply, and I am pleased to say that there is no debate between us. However, there seems to be a debate between the Minister and a number of members of government, since the desire for peace of mind of János Lázár seems to be very difficult to reconcile with the government policy which justifies the sanctions of the European Union; which justifies the NATO policy that turns swordswords towards Russia, not only carries defensive powers but acts offensively against Russia. [[17.00]] I am very pleased with this response, and I very much hope that this is also an answer to the speech before our group leader's agenda, which was delivered two weeks ago and which focuses on peace. I very much hope that this is an answer to the draft political statement submitted by Jobbik Movement for Hungary to the Hungarian Parliament last week. And I very much hope that from the Minister's reply, I can also read that the representatives of Fidesz, the pro-government representatives, will support this political declaration, because it is in the interests of all of us, that peace is in Hungary's interests. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-206	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly underline a few things. One: it is perfectly natural and healthy to have a debate between the various political parties or a sensible discussion about what is the right national position in the Parliament on such a matter of racial importance. The correct national position is set out in Annex XX. Unfortunately, we have rarely been able to identify what is right for our national interests, and we are bearing the consequences of this now in 2014 on a number of issues as well. That is why there is room for speech, dialogue and consultations between the factions and the factions initiated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In addition, it is important to have an intellectual debate within the government apparatus on what is the national interest, how to represent it and what is the most effective way. I have two things to say. The European Union, this institutional system, has been created to protect European peace in the current situation, and to lose this basic idea of focus would be a very serious mistake. In addition, the ruble in Russia is weakening, and this affects the Hungarian stock exchange, the Hungarian economy and the exchange rate of Swiss franck loans immediately and within hours. These are worth considering before we lose our heads. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-23-2-207	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Are you in the 6,000?" It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. István Nagy State Secretary to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2014-12-23-2-208	Of course I'll take it.
u2014-12-23-2-209	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-210	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We have heard very, very many general political forms of communication about the reduction of the rent, the accountability of the banks, and the same weight was the Prime Minister's promise that the proportion of large economies and small farms will be reversed by the government, and will work with every effort to put small and medium-sized enterprises in the position. I have asked the Minister on several occasions whether we are the practical means of doing this, because we do not see that this is what the Land Traffic Act is doing, and we do not see that government aid policy is actually serving it. Last time, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay replied here in Parliament that the rental conditions serve this, however, and rental rights help small farmers to come into a situation. Last week, after winning the Blikk, the information that Lajos Simicska was a major contractor, without a major capitalist tender, was relatively national. Obviously, this does not seem to be in line with the government's promise to put small and medium-sized enterprises or farmers in the position. Nor does it seem that the fact that this can be found out through a lawsuit would help transparency. The information that has come to the ownership of this paper, that several of our fellow Members in Parliament have also obtained such information without any invitation to tender, also gives us some concern in a way that threatens the purity of public life. Are they in this 6,000? They always say they've increased the number of applicants from 600 to 6,000 who didn't have to apply. Or are these over there? What are these goals for? What are the benefits of such unsolicited land distributions, and what is the outcome? I'd appreciate an answer to that. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-211	Thank you, Congressman. The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State István Nagy. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-23-2-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, Thank you very much for asking this question, because we can at least disprove any rumors that threaten the purity of public life, we are able to talk about it, and we are able to inform the public about how these processes take place. Of course, the government is determined to develop a proportionality between the large estates and the small estates, which, in our view, serves a fairer farm and can provide us with a fairer agriculture in the future. We have seen the processes of this in various measures over the past period, and we are experiencing and are forced to suffer from the government side. But what about the fact that someone got to the ground without applying? According to the law, NFA, the National Land Fund Management Organisation, is obliged to exploit state-owned land. The exploitation of public land under a contract of assignment is perfectly legal today, as it was before 2010. As a result, state-owned land was used at a much higher rate than it was after 2010. I would like to inform the Member that, in recent years, the NFA has drastically reduced the number of one-year contracts, and that, from 15 October 2014, we have terminated the contracts where there was a legal possibility to do so. There is a legitimate question as to why the NFA applied this contract, this construction. In most cases, the use of an assignment contract is typical of undivided common-owned real estate, where the possibility of granting a lease for a period of 20 years was excluded by the large number of owners and thus by the absence of the consent of each owner. And I'd like to tell you the rest in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-213	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-12-23-2-214	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. The reason that this answer is odd is that the government is practically trying to explain one of its omissions, which it promised four years ago, in order to eliminate and settle the undivided commons, by using another bad practice of undivided commons, which it did not charge in accordance with its promise, without bidding, and what God would accidentally give to large entrepreneurs close to Fidesz. Obviously, this is a concern because if we parallel this with the other press reports we saw last week and recently, for example, that the National Park of Őrség has doubled the amount of its land and acquired more land, but now the amendment of agricultural law - which is before the House and probably before Parliament in February - is about the fact that the lands of national parks serving protected purposes are being introduced into the NFA, it can give rise to even more concern, since you promised to eliminate the eight-year practice of MSZP when there was no tender. This was promised to Hungarian farmers, but at the same time we can see that this is the opposite practice. This obviously gives us some concern, and it would be nice not to do so.
u2014-12-23-2-215	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Nagy State Secretary is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-23-2-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The fact is that they will be drastically reduced as of 15 October 2014. Indeed, it was unfortunate, indeed, there were many legal obstacles to getting these lands out of the country by tendering. I ask you, Congressman, to accept that the government has a firm intention of keeping it to a minimum. I promise you that by 2018, there will not be a single square meter of land in Hungary that will be in the hands of someone with a contract of contract. I can promise you that with a calm heart, because that's what we intend to do. That's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do. On the issue of national parks, I can safely say to you that areas that are highly protected for national parks will never be eligible for application by the NFA, will continue to be state-owned and will continue to serve environmental protection and nature protection under state security. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2014-12-23-2-217	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question. It's an address. Mr Zoltán Lukács has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Christmas is coming, we are one day ahead of it, and there are a lot of people, lots of families in Hungary who are having a difficult holiday, living more and more difficult, having fewer or no table at all, getting smaller or no Christmas trees, while they see that members of the government or politicians connected to the government live in unimaginable wealth for them. Week after week, they see government politicians as the universe expand their living room, they see that they can buy 180 million forints for themselves, they see that there is no problem paying government politicians up to a million forints for a few days to attend a concert of a world-famous orchestra. In short, they see that they have almost nothing, and these politicians have almost everything. But not only am I saying it, but Zoltán Pokorni says it, and the Speaker of the House says that you're ruling. [[17.10]] Then there is the person who is very good at this situation. His name is Árpád Habony, who, of course, is not known; they say that he is the Prime Minister's advisor and then say that he is not his advisor. Sándor Pintér says he doesn't need to be vetted because he doesn't have a relationship, then Secretary of State Zoltán Kovács claims that he has been vetted. There is also a debate between the two members of the government. Then both Antal Rogán and János Lázár comment on a journalistic question that Árpád Habony has influence over government decision-making. I ask Minister who this Árpád Habony does for a living. You don't know that at all. What does it have to do with you? 'Cause it's obvious that they often dance the way he whistles. Who even gave him his parliamentary pass because you see him here a lot? What is this man's relationship here anyway? Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-23-2-219	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-12-23-2-220	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, I would like to start by saying that what you have outlined in the first part of your speech about the state of Hungarian society and its social conditions, I think you live in a place where you live, you live among people, like me, who really have serious social problems. This is not a two-minute debate, but it probably takes decades of work to make a significant difference. I accept any criticism of myself, and I am well aware of the consequences of my decisions. I take responsibility for this, either as a minister or as a Member of Parliament. The only thing I'm suggesting is that performance should always be raised. I mean, no one can think that my constituents don't know me very well, because I've been elected as a Member of Parliament four times, and I've been elected mayor three times, which, I think, should be respected at least as far as the electorate's decision is concerned. I mean, they just knew who they were voting for. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I'm not sure.]] And since I live and live in one of the poorest constituencys in the country - believe me, my fellow Member, Haughty, you knew precisely - and after living and living in one of the poorest constituencys in the country, I am going home from Budapest, not living here in the capital, perhaps these aspects can be accepted. But I accept your criticism, which, of course, you have the right as a voter and an elected citizen. As far as Mr Árpád Habony is concerned with his specific question, in addition to his comments, I have already received a written question, to which I am happy to answer whether he has a legal relationship or an obligation to answer who gave him a parliamentary admission, if he has received a parliamentary admission from the government. Now, however, I can only answer these questions to you in so far as you did not have a relationship with the Prime Minister's Office. Political decisions are only influenced by the fact that, as far as I know, it is sometimes spoken to by pro-government politicians. I'm one of them. But I suppose you don't want me to be forbidden from talking to any of the eight million citizens who are entitled to the election. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-221	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2014-12-23-2-222	Mr. Secretary. The Hungarian public, the media, treats it as a fact at all, because no one denied that Árpád Habony advises the Prime Minister directly. If someone gives advice directly to the Prime Minister, it is an easy way of saying that they sometimes talk to him. It's more serious than that. And if you don't know about Árpád Habony, and he himself doesn't clarify what he does for a living, apparently very well, but rather sues, then I think it's in Fidesz' interest, as you rightly said, that it's in Fidesz's interest to clarify Habony's role in politics as soon as possible. That's what you said. That's what we think. Because if you're around the Prime Minister, you can get classified information, if you're around the Prime Minister, you can get insight into things that raise national security issues. And if I compare it or raise it to not clarify what he does for a living, and he seems to be doing quite well, then there might be some suspicion that these things are connected. Once again, I think it's in your best interest to clarify that. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-12-23-2-223	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-224	Thank you very much. Congressman and I have known each other for a long time, we have been fighting on both sides of Parliament for a long time, and this is not the first time we have met. You've never heard me say a sentence about my fellow politician's personal existential relations. Even if Ferenc Gyurcsány or Gordon Bajnai's living conditions were a hit in this Parliament. So I can never give you any information about who makes a living or what conditions you live in, because I don't look into it, and I don't care about that. We agree that it is indeed in Fidesz's interest to clarify the situation. That's my advice to everyone. And I can assure you that in the course of my duties, which would be government coordination, I am convinced that the activity that Árpád Habony is doing when he talks to me or meets Antal Rogán, or perhaps the Prime Minister, does not pose any national security risk. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-225	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Security risk if the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is controlled abroad? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2014-12-23-2-226	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, First of all, allow me to correct your false statement in an earlier reply. You said that opposition parties did not support the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. The largest opposition party, Jobbik, supported the extension of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the construction of new blocks throughout Parliament. Because we consider ourselves a responsible opposition party and did not want to risk Hungary's electricity supply. At the moment, however, you are planning a measure that poses a national security risk, namely that the Paks I nuclear power plant, the currently operating Paks nuclear power plant, is bringing in new foreign managers, Paks II. They want to create an international advisory organisation under the Atomic Energy Office to expand and build new blocks. I ask what political pressure you must take this step under, and what political pressure you must take in this tense foreign policy situation. He also gave the answer in his previous answers, in which he said that it was obviously Western European and overseas managers and experts. Do you believe that there is no risk of national security that, following the construction of the Russian planned block, the head of a power plant built with Russian technology, Rosatom will plant managers who are clearly against Hungary's current foreign policy situation in order to carry out such an investment? Obviously, our aim is to achieve this investment, to ensure that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant operates safely, and to generate electricity for the Hungarian people at a cheap and good price. With one decision, you are now withdrawing confidence from CEO István Hamvas and his associates, who were placed in this position in 2010. We don't know why. Why did we have to find out all of a sudden, overnight, from your statement? We continue to trust this leadership. We know that we have negotiated in person on several occasions, and we have personally made sure that they run this power plant safely and well. We therefore stand by them and consider it a security risk to bring international, so-called international experts to the head of the power plant. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-227	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2014-12-23-2-228	Thank you very much. Perhaps I would begin by saying that, if I had been wrong or if I had been wrong, I apologize to my fellow good-looking Members. I have indeed made no distinction between campaigners, voters and Jobbik's position against maintaining nuclear power plant capacity. I apologize for that. This was a mistake here in the context of my speech to Parliament. My second point would be that those who do not deal with the nuclear power plant do not know precisely, they do not have a concrete view, as our fellow Member has already indicated, that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has, of course, become part of international cooperation in recent decades. Which means that no one in the world operates without the International Atomic Energy Agency, without his supervision, support, assistance or actually controlling nuclear power plants. So to say that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant operates independently of the world or independently of the international environment or international professionals or administrative authorities is a mistake. Of course, I can infiltrate international professional opinion and the international world of nuclear power plants and even confirm to you that, after the recent years' tragedy, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is one of the most secure power plants in the European Union. The question here is to be clear and clear about the economic circumstances and not the security conditions, I do not feel that this is a national security risk. The Paks I nuclear power plant, as a large company, has provided all the conditions for the use of international authorities in the management of the company. This does not make the management of the company worse, but all our assumptions are that it can be even better than it has been before, not arguing that there are still professionals who are worthy of recognition and to continue working there. I can only confirm that. Just as dismissal is not the purpose of due diligence or a new management. It's telling me that something like this might even come up. [[17.20]] We would like to make it clear how the economic figures at Paks I., outsourcing, economic operation of the nuclear power plant have evolved over the past 25 years. We'd like to see people there who would like to see Parliament and the government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 100% loyal and make every effort to ensure efficient economic operation. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-229	Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli in return.
u2014-12-23-2-230	Thank you very much. So you'd like to see people there who are 100% loyal to the government. Then, translated, this means that they have no confidence in the current leadership, they are not 100% loyal to the government. This is probably because they are 100% loyal to the profession and operate this power plant according to the rules of the profession. I continue to see that the International Atomic Energy Agency is able to gain appropriate insight into the operation of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. There is no need for managers of foreign or foreign nationality, whether managers or experts, who may be in a decision-making position and may determine the future functioning of the power plant. In particular, with regard to the former immediate question, if the situation escalates into a kind of war situation, which you have confirmed in your interview, the national security risk that may arise between an American manager, if any, and a Russian-powered nuclear power plant, when two major world empires are stretched to each other in the form of an extremely lively conflict. We need to think about that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So we need to look into the future in this respect. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-12-23-2-231	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-232	I believe that the legislator has a fundamental duty to do everything in his power to control the executive power and to try to follow the forints of taxpayers. In this activity, the government wants clarity and clarity in the case of the Paks I nuclear power plant, an opposition representative, as legislator, should support executive power, because most of what can happen in this case, or the worst scenario is that we will be crystal clear, and we will also be able to see through others what is really happening in the Paks nuclear power plant. If everything is okay there, then this kind of protest, this kind of heightened emotional reaction from the last two weeks is incomprehensible. I fear that this emotional reaction that has developed is about the fact that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, of course, also means economic interest groups, who are now desperate that someone is coming, completely independent of any Hungarian economic interest group, if any, and will look at these contracts, and will finally objectively inform the Parliament what is real. This is in your best interest, in the interests of the legislators, not in the interests of the executive authority. Mr President, if I may, and on behalf of the Hungarian Government in my last sentence, I would like to thank all my opposition fellow Members for their work in 2014 and wish you a blessed Christmas. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-233	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and wishes. Dear Parliament, It's 5:22 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Now we're gonna ask the questions. Dear Parliament, Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:, Can the state revenue of HUF 20 billion come together from the paying M0 and county stickers? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is responsible and competent on behalf of Prime Minister László Tasó, State Secretary. Congressman Bertalan Tóth has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, During the morning, during the speeches before the agenda, a debate was launched on the M0 motorway, its fee and the payment of travel bypasses. Unfortunately, the Fidesz MEPs weren't here, so we couldn't explain and confront the positions. However, it was instructive that during the speech before the agenda we heard Mr. Secretary of State Fónagy explain why the HUF 5,000 is less than HUF zero. We have now also heard from Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, that there has been a compromise here, although we do not know with whom this compromise has been made - probably not with the surrounding mayors and representatives of the profession. I would like to know specifically how the 20 billion forints of tolls that you read in the press come together, how the budget expects it. After all, we have read that it is mostly built by trucks, of which about 13 billion out of 20 billion forints. But there's no way the remaining HUF 7 billion you're counting on is coming out of this revenue. Especially if we look at the reasoning that we have heard that everyone will be doing much better now, they will have to pay less than before. So we do not understand what this HUF 20 billion is made up of. Have any impact assessments been carried out? I would like to ask the Secretary of State about this impact assessment. What calculations, internal negotiations led to both these bypasses and the M0 paying off, why is the revenue worth HUF 20 billion? It's very suspicious that the lost Internet tax revenue has now had to be replaced with something. I would like to ask you that if it does not happen, this HUF 20 billion will not work, then how will you want to make up for this revenue in the budget. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-235	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State László Tasó.
u2014-12-23-2-236	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Presents, The fact is, there have indeed been several attempts by the pro-government representatives today to say that the answers you are now waiting for are under what circumstances they can be born. In answer to your questions, I'd like to start with the third. The Parliament cannot take away the competence of the government, because if the Parliament had discussed it today, it would have taken away the matter falling within the competence of the government. The other question was about HUF 20 billion. During the planning, we had our investigations naturally, and we had to calculate roughly the expected revenues. But they obviously weren't accurate. After such an introduction, only use and experience can tell you and the end of the year how much revenue can actually come from it. But many have made it clear that the government's intention was not to generate additional revenue, but to ease the burden of Hungarian people, of road users. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, has just explained the benefits of the county vignette system quite clearly. I don't think we need to talk about this for long. But I understand that, and there's no way to win a match where they say that if you didn't have to pay for something today, and tomorrow you have to pay for it, why it's good for someone. I understand that, and everyone knows that it cannot be positive in this regard. However, it must accept what many people have stressed that motorways were also made from Community funds or EU budgets or from domestic taxpayers' money. We believe that, under the same conditions of transport, those who use it must pay. The county vignette system helps to pay proportionately for the use of roads. I think it's clear to Pest County that they have to pay not only for a trip that they use every day or often, but also for all the networks in the entire county as well as for people in other counties. So the county sticker is a proportionate burden, and believe me, hundreds of thousands of people are happy with this change. I hope that everyone understands that everyone must contribute the same way to maintaining our investments trained at the common cost. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-237	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Land tax, tractor tax, plough tax, livestock tax, can smoke tax come next year? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! "There will be no land tax in Hungary," said Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas. In fact, the land tax would be good for some large investors buying up most of the land from the masses of Hungarian landowners with one or two hectares. Unfortunately, the Minister did not think of this until 2012, since the Government has decided and changed its position on this issue. As part of the new tax package, the tax categories that municipalities can levy have been extended. Thus, almost all taxes, including the land I referred to, have become the subject of almost all taxes, the government has repeatedly said that it will not allow it to be subject to tax. But we're not surprised that you've faced your former self again. A law of 1992 stated that the tax on the land was zero. This was repealed in 2012. Together with the current amendment, this results in local governments being able to impose this new tax on agricultural enterprises, farmers and everyone who can be affected. This was, moreover, despite the fact that the wallet has repeatedly indicated that it will resolve with ex post regulations so as not to make it possible to impose this tax. Now, according to some rumors, up to 500 municipalities can use this option, and these municipalities have already planned this new tax category among the revenues of their next year's budget. I would like to say here that I am not, of course, flogging the local governments, because the government is reducing their opportunities every year, their funding, so often they have no choice but to impose this tax. I do not need to explain the consequences for small and medium-sized family farmers. So all I have left to ask is whether we will have the guarantees that the land tax will not hit these people for the next few hours. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[17 .30]]
u2014-12-23-2-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-12-23-2-240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My dear fellow Member, As I approach Christmas, I must say that I am very grateful that you asked this question, because we can tell you the good news that will indeed be news under every farmer's Christmas tree. I can only repeat myself: there will be no land tax in Hungary. And I'm gonna give you a reason why. In fact, municipalities should not be liable to tax on a tax subject which is governed by law, whether it is a central or a local public burden, and, on the other hand, the person subject to the municipal tax cannot be an organisation or an entrepreneur, but is only a private individual. If a private individual is also an entrepreneur, he shall not be obliged to pay a municipal tax on property belonging to his business assets in view of his entrepreneurial quality. In other words, despite the fact that the taxation of land is not excluded by the law, in practice neither the farm enterprise operating as a company nor the owner of the individual entrepreneur - and here comes the point - nor the farmer operating as an agricultural farmer with an annual income of more than HUF 600,000 is threatened by neither the land tax nor any other tax which you have imagined to impose on agriculture. This is in line with what the wallet has said, represented and represented from the beginning. His suggestion that the municipalities would be forced by the government to impose an excessive tax would also not hold up, since it is enough to recall the wide-ranging debt settlement of the local government sector. Almost a quarter-century of the local government's operation has demonstrated that the municipalities have exercised their responsibility for their local tax founding rights which provide a relatively wide range of taxation leeway. There is no reason to doubt that their increasing taxation instruments will not be used carefully in the future, and that the municipal tax rules would not be adapted to the burden-bearing capacity of the inhabitants of the settlement. Dear Congressman, Never be a better gift than what you can safely say to your question: no Hungarian producer is still threatened by a land tax. Thank you very much for asking. [[András Tállai applauds.]]
u2014-12-23-2-241	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When can every student receive quality language education? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-242	[[Your microphone isn't properly pinned.]] Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, According to the government's decision, as a general rule, with the exception of some training courses, a higher level of graduation and at least one secondary language exam will be mandatory in primary and undivided courses from 2020 if a person wishes to go to university or college. [[He's setting the mike up.]] By tightening the recruitment requirements, they also preceded the adoption of the higher education strategy. [[They want to put a portable microphone in front of your desk.]]
u2014-12-23-2-243	The microphone's working, thank you very much. There you go. I'll count the time.
u2014-12-23-2-244	[[His mic's distorting.]] Then I'll continue. Thus, by tightening admission requirements, they also prevented the adoption of the higher education strategy, even though they have so far talked about the fact that cooperation with higher education actors is finally considered important and that decisions are not taken before the adoption of the concept. But that's just one problem. The May Other of Politics does not agree with joining the admission language exam in the current situation. We do not consider this idea to be fundamentally rejected, but there are huge differences between schools in terms of quality of education in the current state, and this is particularly true of language teaching. There are institutions that place great emphasis on language learning, and students can easily obtain their language exams long before graduation. In other places, however, parents send their children for expensive extra lessons to fill the gaps in public schools. But less wealthy families can't afford that. And school classes don't prepare for language exams. Therefore, by joining the admission exam, students can close the doors to higher education in front of another tens of thousands of students. The reform of language education has been delayed for many years; none of the governments want to deal with this. Dear Secretary of State, Why do they link admissions to language exams without reforming language education? When can all students receive quality language education, no matter what school they attend? Thank you.
u2014-12-23-2-245	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor.
u2014-12-23-2-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The congressman said that he did not think it was a despicable thing, but he thought that it was early. I have good news; you probably know it, but you forgot to mention it: we will not be introducing it from now on, but from 2020, so for those who are starting their six-year high school education now in 2014, they will graduate by 2020 and will be required to do so. We thought that if we wanted high-quality higher education, we could even create the basis for this with a higher level of graduation, or by having at least a medium level knowledge of a foreign language, we could ensure these conditions are sufficiently serious to ensure that the quality of higher education itself is also qualitative. So in six years, I believe that everyone has just enough time to prepare for language learning, even for a high-level graduation, so that they can do that afterwards. Everyone can prepare, see the conditions exactly what needs to be met, and in four to six years they will be able to complete their secondary education. You also know that there are still a lot of students studying foreign languages. English is the first choice, German is the second choice; English is studied by an outstanding number, nearly 60 percent of students are English, 30 percent German is followed by all other languages. A student has 1200 hours of language lessons in Hungary, which is a stronger, more muscular number at European level, which must obviously be improved, to which the Member referred; not only the quantity is important, but also the quality of these language lessons, so that the language skills of the 18-year-old graduates are better. At the same time, a lot of people get their language exams even before the entrance exams, even as extra points. It's the only way to get into a lot of places. 53 percent apply for BA training and 60 percent still have MA training. So that's what two thirds of the students are doing right now. The remaining third has six years to prepare. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-12-23-2-247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: - How are employees protected from abuse? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today, the MSZP has dealt with the situation of workers on several occasions. My fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, drew attention to the resolution of the issue of early retirement in an interpellation. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Early discount, not concessions!]] I would like to bring another aspect to this House myself. Without even talking about how vulnerable the labour code puts the average worker in a vulnerable position, as an individual Member of Parliament, I was approached by a number of workers who came to me with the same problem; with the problem that their employer does not announce him, and by not announcing him, it is extremely dangerous not only for their livelihood, but also for their future pension. At the moment, the notification is made on a form to the NAV and the NAV forwards the notification to the National Health Insurance Fund, so the employee will be entitled to health care. Well, when the announcement has not been made, obviously not only does the tax office not know the situation of this employee, but the National Health Insurance Fund is not aware of it, nor is the pension lender aware of it. Therefore, it can be seen that workers who are not thus declared by their employer suffer multiple damages. I therefore ask the representative of the government: does the Ministry of National Economy plan to work with the competent authorities and ministries to develop procedures to reduce this trend? Does the government plan to reduce, ex post, the damage to the workers whose employer has put in such a vulnerable situation? Has this problem even reached the government? I look forward to your honored answer.
u2014-12-23-2-249	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2014-12-23-2-250	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Employees, i.e. insured persons, are required by law to provide a guarantee that the employer is required to issue a certificate of notification to the insured person no later than the day following the notification or within three working days at the request of the insured person, containing the information provided in the notification and the date on which the notification was made. In addition to the foregoing, the employer shall inform the insured person in writing of the health insurance and labour market contribution deducted from the insured person's income, the pension contribution and the family contribution allowance from each contribution at the same time as payment of the monthly income. [[17.40]] In addition to the monthly certificate, the employer shall ask the insured person, together with the income certificate, for a certificate by 31 January of the year following the year in question, for the same certificate as the records. The rules ensure that the worker has proof of his regular employment at the beginning of employment and of his or her income for the whole tax year and of the payment of post-wage contributions paid to him or her. However, the rules on the establishment of social security benefits also provide an opportunity to take into account working periods in the event of an employer's failure and to avoid damage to the insured because of his employer's negligence or avoidance of taxes. The period of service on which retirement is based shall be taken into account on the basis of the register of social security management bodies. At the same time, it is possible to take into account non-certified periods of service if they are demonstrated in the manner specified by the applicant's legislation. Thus, the government does not intend to amend the existing legislation, given that they are able to enforce the rights and interests of workers in their current form and to reduce the financial losses of victims within the statutory framework. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Charles Kontra applauds.]]
u2014-12-23-2-251	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior what the government is doing to stop the flood of refugees? It's an address. It's for the congressman.
u2014-12-23-2-252	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last year, I would like to draw the government's attention to more than 20,000 refugee flows, which are not only a matter of law enforcement, but also a number of other spheres, such as social, social, public health and public security. I would like to emphasise the topicality of my speech with an update. On 19 and 20 December, in 24 hours, 151 border offenders and 3 smugglers were captured by the Bács-Kiskun County Police. A significant part of the Hungarian-Serbian border section that is most seriously affected by the problem belongs to the 5th constituency of the county of Bács-Kiskun, which I also represent, so I consider it particularly important to find a solution to the danger affecting the border settlements, such as Bácsalmás, Tompa, Kelebia and Deep Well, something in the nearby area of Kiskunhalas. The subjective sense of security of the population has clearly deteriorated in these settlements, as the majority of immigrants have been brought up in a completely different culture, so that they cannot and do not want to adapt to the majority society that hosts them. I have also received a number of requests from the local people who live in fear of strangers who are harassing them, coming in hordes, constantly begging, settling at bus stops and setting fire there. Jobbik also has concrete proposals on this issue to solve the problem. We have already called for the establishment of specialised border hunting units with modern equipment, the closure of the institutions receiving refugees, which would preferably seek self-sufficiency. We also consider it important not to create refugee camps within populated areas, as, unfortunately, many of the people who arrive here are living criminal lives and thus pose a threat to the population living there. In our view, the costs of these should, in contrast to the current situation, be financed in a larger part from EU funds, since, on the one hand, it is the protection of the common border and, on the other hand, the destination of the majority of illegal border crossings is one of the western Member States of the Union, to whom we are actually preventing the wave of refugees. So I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State what the government is doing to stop the refugee tsunami. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-12-23-2-253	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-12-23-2-254	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government uses all available means to reduce the number of illegal migrants, and I would like to say that the Hungarian border police, the Hungarian police, which carries out border police tasks, are doing outstanding work to achieve this goal, and I am here today thanking the Hungarian police officers for their work and service this year in order to ensure the safety of Hungary. Thank you very much. As far as your question is concerned, the government is aware of the gravity of this issue, handling it accordingly, taking measures under its own authority, and working with the Union, EU organisations, Frontex, working with the neighbouring countries concerned, for example Serbia; there is Hungarian-Serbian-Austrian cooperation to coordinate activities on illegal migrants appearing at the Hungarian-Serbian border. On 30 July 2014, 4 new mobile thermal cameras were purchased by the External Borders Fund at the Romanian border section, and in addition, 2 new stable thermal imaging devices were installed at the Serbian border section 1 at the Ukrainian border section. At present there are 9 such devices in the Serbian section, 11 in the Ukrainian border section, and 4 in the Romanian part. With neighbouring countries, Hungarian border police and Hungarian police are carrying out joint patrol activities to combat illegal migration effectively. As regards the border sections of Serbia and Ukraine, Frontex will send reinforcement forces to the offices in Zahon, Röszke and Kelebia, which will also carry out tasks in the field of border and border control. Due to the continuous migratory pressure, the National Police Headquarters has strengthened the border police service with police officers, and the Szeged Police Department provides a continuous police presence in Csongrád county [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] in areas affected by migration. Honourable Congressman, As soon as the two minutes gave me the opportunity, I touched on the measures that express the government's handling of this issue in its place, doing everything possible to ensure that the Hungarians [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] interest should prevail and will continue to act in the same way in the future. Thank you very much.
u2014-12-23-2-255	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence:. Where is the cover for fulfilling the commitment made at the NATO summit? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2014-12-23-2-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. At the NATO summit in autumn, the Hungarian government has made several promises, two of which I would like to highlight very important because of the fact that the government is particularly verbal, but these are not covered in the 2015 budget. One is the development of the papal base airport, which would amount to HUF 20 billion. Needless to say, this HUF 20 billion is not in the 2015 budget, and since it is a multi-year investment, we are now looking at HUF 344 million for next year. It doesn't look like it's in the 2015 budget either. The other is the level of the defence budget, which was promised to bring it closer to 2 percent of GDP in ten years. This will be a very difficult task, especially given that next year the GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP-to-GDP budget will be reduced compared to 2014. In the beginning, the government promised a 0.1 percent increase that wouldn't happen next year. It is just a foam on the cake that it is expected that development expenditure will rise to 20 percent; although 30 percent is marked in the national military strategy, there is no chance of this happening with such a budget. So the question arises who Minister is trying to mislead: the Hungarian taxpayers or perhaps our allies. Or you do not know and understand the long-term risk of this irresponsible defence budget policy you are pursuing. But whatever the case, I think they're all quite worrying. And by the way, any development I ask of Minister always refers to the central budget. We all know this is nothing, take it well, these are phantom sources until they appear in the budget labeled. So my question is when will these commitments be covered in the 2015 budget. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2014-12-23-2-257	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. [[17.50]]
u2014-12-23-2-258	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As the last speaker of the year, I wish you blessed, peaceful Christmas holidays. As a matter of fact, in 2012, the government promised a 0.1 percent increase in the defence budget not for 2015 but from 2016 onwards, so don't look for it and take it to account now. What is real, the defence budget in the Budget Act increased by HUF 9 billion, and it is included in the budget for an additional HUF 10 billion, of which you will finance an average wage increase of 30 per cent from July 2015 - you will find this in the budget - a total of HUF 20 billion, honourable Member. Compared to the fact that in 2012 the Hungarian government promised and predicted to keep the defence budget at nominal level for 2015, this is now an increase of almost 10 percent. As far as the papal airport is concerned - I have said several times, but the repetition seems to be the mother of knowledge - the development of the capacity of the papal airport is planned by HM, with the approval of the government, beyond the planned appropriations of the chapter for 2015. So no one is misled, Madam honourable Member, and I am sorry that you forget the HUF 20 billion that clearly increases the budget under the adopted law. In addition, next year, planning expenses will be applied to the development of the papal airport, which is indeed reflected in the HUF 350 million you have designated. The 20 billion investment will take place in the coming years. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] which you have spoken about and which the government has decided. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-12-23-2-259	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Our fellow Members who came forward to speak after the agenda have ceased their intention to speak. Dear Parliament, Meeting adjourned. I would like to inform you that the first Spring Session is expected to take place in the second week of February 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of myself and on behalf of all my fellow Members, to wish you and all our colleagues a blessed Christmas holiday and a happy new year. Thank you for your attention, this meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 5:52 p.m.]]
