u2014-10-20-0	Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to extend a special welcome to President János Áder. [[János Áder, seated in the box, stands up. ? Applause.]] Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Ádám Mirkóczki. Dear Parliament, Again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform you of the deaths of two of our former fellow Members. Miklós Veér obtained his mandate at the parliamentary elections in 1994 in the 3rd single mandate constituency of Zala county. Member of the Committee on Employment and Labour of the Parliament, Chairman of the Supervisory Sub-Committee. He also worked in this area in the MSZP faction. In his narrower residential environment, he did much to make the historic centre of Keszthely a historic area. Dear House, Imre Pichler, a fellow Member, died yesterday as a result of a tragic accident. At the parliamentary elections in 2002, he obtained an individual mandate in the colour of the MDF in the 7th constituency of Baranya County, Szigetvár. He was a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Social and Family Affairs. In November 2004, he emerged from the MDF faction and continued his work in the Fidesz-KDNP group from May 2005. At the parliamentary elections in 2010, he once again obtained a mandate in the single mandate constituency. As a teacher, a school principal, he taught a series of generations. I would ask all present to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members who have died in silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, President János Áder announced that he would like to speak before the agenda today. The title of his speech was: "Let's think globally, act locally?" questions about our future together. I would like to ask President János Áder to come to the speaker's stand and present his speech before the agenda.
u2014-10-20-1	Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As President of Hungary, I had three reasons to apply for a speech before the agenda, using the possibility provided by the house rules. The first is that I was able to represent Hungary at the UN General Assembly in New York just a month ago and at the previous climate conference, where issues have been discussed that affect all of our lives for a long time. The second is that we have passed three elections; the Hungarian electorate has decided who will be entrusted with the responsibility of governance, our representation in the European Union and the administration of their local affairs. With the campaign noise in place, we have reached a moment when we can also exchange ideas on issues that are of cross-choice importance, affect the future of all Hungarian families, and I believe that they are superior to political political debates. The third reason: As a citizen of Hungary, as a family father with four children, as a politician responsible for our common future, I consider the question of the state in which we leave our land, our waters, our forests, the living air for our children and our grandchildren. Two and a half years ago, when I was preparing for the first climate conference of my presidential term, we agreed with the leaders of the five parliamentary parties to focus on the issue of water in Rio, but I was also encouraged by the leaders of the parties to keep the issue of environmental sustainability on the agenda. In the last two and a half years, many times? Last time in New York? I represented Hungary and expressed my position, and a year ago, using your support, we organised the Budapest Water Summit, where political decision-makers, representatives of the water profession, environmental organisations, scientists and economic actors were thinking together on issues related to water management, water supply, water base protection, water purification, flood protection and the use of common river basins. At the beginning of any discussion of this type, it is worth asking some simple questions that may seem banal at first. Do we want to protect our waters, our lands, our natural values for our children? Do we share the same responsibility? Is this a parliamentary task that runs across political cycles? Can we stand by and wait for ever more extreme and inevitable natural disasters? Can we learn from the mistakes of others? Can we learn from our own experience? [[13.20]] In preparation for today's meeting, I reviewed the program of the parliamentary parties. In terms of environmental sustainability, I could not find much difference, which could be a good basis for finding a common denominator. There are two dangers to our discussion: one is that we are talking about the problem by repeating platitudes at the general level, sinking into the swamp of small, short-sighted daily political debates; the other? And that's what's more important? That we do not notice the warnings of our natural environment, we do not understand the warnings that come from week to week, month to month, year to year, even though... Yet the number of natural disasters has increased five times over the last 40 years. Thirteen of the fourteen warmest years have occurred since the turn of the millennium. Yet, each of the last three decades has been warmer than the previous one. But in recent years, we have experienced what the weather block means. This is a new concept, the phenomenon itself is new, and the essence is that a larger geographical area can be dominated by a hot or wet weather block for much longer than before. In 2003, the heat in Western Europe killed 30,000 people, and the heat in Russia four years ago caused the deaths of 50,000 people. Hundreds of scientists warn us - most recently the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change? the melting of the ice sheet, the rising sea level, the increasingly devastating droughts of a flood-like flood elsewhere, the sinking islands, coastal cities under water, the billions of people who remain without sufficient quantity and quality of water, in many parts of the world, the destabilization of food production and, sooner or later, a huge wave of migration towards safer areas. For now, it seems that English journalist Martin Wolf is right, who wrote that mankind is conducting a huge, uncontrollable and certainly irreversible climate experiment with the only place that serves as its home. You can ask if this concerns us. We have good land, we have enough water, we are far from the oceans, climate change is not our problem. I'd like to give the confident disbelievers a little doubt. A month ago, we all saw pictures of the floods in Transdanubia: Vas, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Veszprém, Fejér, Zala county, water levels that broke all previous records, flooded fields, destroyed crops, houses that became uninhabitable, damaged roads, bridges, railway charges, there was an area where the average rain from September fell three to four times in a few days. The damage is HUF 3 billion. But I could also refer to last year's Danube flood, and I'm not talking about the heroic defense that deserves all the respect. I would like to offer you one piece of data: before 1945, the water level of the Danube in Budapest has never exceeded eight metres; in the last ten years, this has happened four times. The last one, last year, was close to nine meters, and only a few centimeters separated us from having to protect Parliament's building or the Academy of Sciences with sandbags. Or think of the flood in Tisza 13 years ago, when the river's water level rose to six meters in a single day, in twenty - four hours. In Hungary, too, we can see more and more often that while at the beginning of the summer a great deal of rain is damaging the crop, and in a few weeks it will be heat and drought. And I would like to offer you one more piece of data: about two thousand illegal immigrants requested refugee status in Hungary before last year; last year this figure increased tenfold. Hungary can only accept two thousand people, can it still take care of two thousand people? But 20,000? That's more of a problem. What if this number increases significantly? What problem will this be for the governments at hand and for all of us? Climate change can have direct effects not only on the quality of land, water, air, but also on the economic and budgetary consequences of a natural disaster. Let me give you two examples. One is the neighbouring Serbia. They all saw the pictures in May, and when I met President Nikolic, President of Serbia, he said to me: "This flood caused Serbia more damage than the bombings of the Balkan war in the early 1990s. It has rejected Serbia's economy by about 20 years. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another example from overseas: did the Mayor of New York say at the climate conference? You've seen pictures of this, two years ago? Hurricane Sandy did 20 billion dollars in damage to New York City. The city leaders ever since? I'm sorry to use that phrase? They beat their heads against the wall for not listening to the clever word; for not listening to the warnings of experts who said that a few hundred million dollars of investment could have avoided all of this. Again, the damage was $20 billion. It is therefore worth considering the calculations made by English economist Professor Nicholas Stern and the European Union that we can save six euros in today's investment to help adapt to the effects of climate change. [[13.30]] You have the right to ask what we can do, because the missed opportunities of previous decades will not come back, we cannot replace the wasted time. At the same time, we can be sure that natural disasters are becoming more and more victims and will make our lives more and more miserable. Now let me take two detours here. In order to avoid misunderstandings later, I would like to note that while I am dealing with the consequences of climate change in my speech, I would protect everyone from a one-dimensional perspective. It is good to know that adaptation to climate change has not only environmental, but also health, social, economic growth and competitiveness related to the protection of jobs, migration and national security. I don't think we're gonna talk about this today. The other detour is about whether cooperation makes sense, whether joint action makes sense. I'd like to offer you some news a few weeks ago. The news said that after 35 years, the ozone layer began to thicken again. You've all heard about the ozone hole, you've all heard about the consequences, the health consequences. But we caused this problem by the intensive use of chlorine gases. In 25 years we have destroyed the ozone layer, in 25 years we have destroyed the protective shield that has provided adequate protection for billions of years, not just for us humans, but for the flora and fauna. And it took another 15 years to get to the idea of acting together. For 15 years, politicians, corporate actors and representatives of large companies have tried to sweep the problem under the rug; for example, Ronald Reagan's Minister of Interior said that it is necessary to defend itself against the damaging effects of ozone shield damage by wearing a hat and sunglasses with large flanges. But when the increasingly obvious signs came that in some countries, such as Britain, the number of skin cancers increased six times, the time for action had come. And then in Montreal, under the auspices of the United Nations, an agreement was reached, these gases were banned, and after 35 years, scientists now indicate the healing of the ozone layer. The last question worth considering is what we Hungarians can do. We must strive to slow down and reverse negative processes. We must also prepare ourselves for ever more extreme natural disasters. And we need to find solutions that if, despite the careful work done, a natural disaster occurs, we can remedy the damage as quickly as possible. This may sound too general, so let's look at it a little more specifically. Of the above mentioned natural disasters, Hungary is most threatened by floods, floods, droughts, including desertification of certain areas and weather block effects. I just referred to the flood in Tisza 13 years ago. The damage was over HUF 32 billion. Then we adopted the Vásárhelyi plan, in the framework of which four reservoirs have been established, two more are under construction, and these two will be completed in the middle of next year. What was the purpose? The aim was to ensure that a billion and a half cubic meters of water were held, and thus we could reduce the water level of the Tisza by one meter without raising dams. We will reach half of this goal next year. But in the coming years, we will have to build five more reservoirs so that the one and a half million people living along the Tisza can feel safe. This goes beyond this electoral cycle, and I ask all the parties of Parliament and all their representatives to support this programme, and there should not be such interruptions as they were at the beginning of the Vásárhelyi plan. The floods of recent years on the Danube, but on other rivers, all previous records have been broken. It seems inevitable for hundreds of kilometers to increase the charges and clean the water bed, no matter what the interests of flooding may come down more quickly. Our water experts have the right knowledge, so let's use this knowledge wisely and use it wisely. And why don't we turn need into virtue? Water withheld from the pressure of flood protection should be better used for irrigation, fish production or tourism. Finally, a number of governments have been involved in the programme, but a major breakthrough has not been achieved so far, and this is the planting of forests. We've had the right knowledge of forest engineering, and we've had excellent professionals for years, decades. Why can't we kill more birds with one stone? After all, by planting forests, there will be less carbon dioxide in the air, but at the same time the amount of oxygen will increase. This gives people the opportunity to work in public, because it is a rather demanding activity, and after a few years we will have a serious renewable energy source, and forests around large cities can be a major help in coping with the big summer heat. To solve climate change problems, government and opposition, cities and small villages, large industrial companies and civil society organisations, young and older generations will need to work together, and this cooperation will have to become a regional, European Union and international cooperation. Not only can Hungary not solve the problem of climate change, but the 28 countries of the European Union cannot solve it together. Even if the European Union reduces CO2 emissions by 40%, if China saves the same amount of CO2, it will bring it to the atmosphere in a few years. 14 years ago, in Kyoto, we agreed to reduce the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere by 5 percent compared to 1990. Compared to that, he's up 30 percent. It wasn't Hungary's fault. In Paris next year, in a year's time, we will have to conclude a new agreement, more ambitious, more responsible. It is worth considering the idea of US President Barack Obama, who said at the conference in New York that we are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change, and we are the last generation to do anything about it. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is worth considering these words and it is worth considering each other in this work as allies, because we have lost the battles of the past, but we can still win the battles of the future. For our children, for our grandchildren, for the next generation. Thank you for listening. [[A big round of applause.]]
u2014-10-20-2	I thank the President of the Republic for his speech. I would like to inform this House that at last week's meeting of the House Committee, the factions agreed that they would like to respond to what the President of the Republic said, and then the Government will then present its position, and, finally, a rejoinder will be given depending on the election of the President of the Republic. After the President of the Republic's speech did not exceed 20 minutes, therefore, according to the relevant provision of the Rules of the House, the political groups have a five to five-minute time frame for expressing their views. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki from Fidesz. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2014-10-20-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr President of the Republic. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, to thank President János Áder for bringing such an important question to this House. After all, if we are the first generation to feel the first wave of harmful effects of climate change, I think that this will give us the strength to transform change into unity and to take the necessary steps to ensure that the effects of this do not become stronger but dull. Mr President has raised very important questions, to which we must answer in any case, because Hungarian society expects us to respond to all important issues, to take steps that will make all of our lives better and more beautiful. Unfortunately, over the past ten years, there have been numerous signs of the nature of not being tolerated by man constantly interfering in the wrong direction, constantly polluting his environment, the cleanliness of our air, our land and our water is not a priority issue. Unfortunately, the recent years, the floods and environmental disasters of the past decades have shown that some countries and even some continents are not able to achieve meaningful results without cooperation. But that there is a promising future has already been proven by the European Parliament's previous decisions, because, as Mr President has said, the thinning of the ozone layer has been prevented by joint cooperation, and we have now reached the point that the ozone layer is getting thicker again, the hole in the ozone layer is shrinking again. As a result, there is a realistic chance that all of the environmental factors that seriously affect people on Earth will be eliminated over time. I think we're at the last minute we can act. During this year, the European Parliament adopted a decision leading to a reduction in emissions of F-gases from 1 January 2015. As chlorine gases were responsible for the formation of the ozone hole and the thinning of the ozone layer, these F-gases are now responsible for warming. F-gases which cause terrible effects primarily in cooling systems, by filling air conditioning systems, by leaking from them, and when these equipment is destroyed into the air. The technological developments that have taken place in recent years serve precisely the purpose of replacing harmful equipment as soon as possible and of applying new technology that virtually does not have such emissions. However, as of 1 January 2015, the European Union has decided that this new regulation, if other continents, users or issuers much larger than us, such as China, India or the United States, do not follow the right example. Mr President has indicated that the European Union has also done its best to reduce CO2 emissions. We are leading the world in vain if Europe is only responsible for 12% of total emissions. It is therefore very important that concrete decisions be taken in Paris, not only by the European states as an example to follow, as a binding decision for themselves, but also by the large polluting countries: China, India and the United States, to make short-term decisions that will cost their economies in the short term and, where appropriate, reduce economic development in the short term in order to protect our climate; to leave a living world for our children and grandchildren, a living Earth, and to give the next generations a chance to continue the process that we are about to start, and thus to ensure that the damage that has happened over the last decades does not endanger the future of our Earth. We are indeed at the last moment, so I think that both the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government must do their best to ensure that a positive decision is made in Paris that is in the interests of all of us. I think that there is a need for the commitment of all the representatives involved in Hungarian politics. I would therefore very much urge everyone to support in a united manner a proposal that Mr President can then represent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-4	Dear Parliament, Allow me to welcome Mr Kabibulla Jakupov, President and escort of the Kazakh Parliament, who will be present at my invitation on an official visit to Hungary. I wish you good success and a rich stay in Hungary for your further negotiations. I now give the floor to Mr Tobias, the leader of the Socialist Party Group.
u2014-10-20-5	Mr. President of the Republic! Mr. Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It was strange that on a matter that had been formulated in the last quarter of a century, after the Rio conference, both in the world and in Hungary and in the Parliament building, President of the Republic sent a higher horizon to both Hungary and Europe and the world. Mr President said that there is also a global and local opportunity for action and a need in a good sense. Many people over the last decade have talked a lot about climate change transformation, how and how the environment, society and the economy can adapt to it. So far, I have to say, there have been a lot of written emissaries. Many times, we have talked about it in many places, and perhaps from the warning signs that we have analyzed as environmental damage, droughts, storms, floods in Hungary over the last decade, we still do not realize that we have to do anything else and otherwise. If we look at the success and failure of the action plans of the last decades, then it is a small hope that everything that has happened at the New York conference has taken no big, perhaps small, but courageous and concrete steps towards change. These include cities, forest protection, specific areas and limits for reducing CO2 emissions, deadlines, food safety, or important concrete, enforceable solutions for the 2015 Paris conference, so to speak. It was also important that the participants clearly stated that the objective of global warming above 2 degrees Celsius, i.e. that no higher than 2 degrees Celsius could increase the average temperature in the world, was considered mandatory by everyone. If we look at Europe, we see that Europe is an exemplary response to this area of global challenges, because it is not committed to the end of the century, but is committed to reducing the limit and the level of CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990 levels. Besides, there was a very important decision. A global collaboration will be opened up, where international experts, financial and economic organisations and, not least, civil society organisations will join together to create resources for the creation and development of technologies in the world that could have an impact on traditional economic structures and instruments. I would like to thank the President of the Republic for your very effective and exemplary participation in this. If I may, I would also like to point out that, in general, an intention must also develop specific institutional or action forms. It is not certain that it is appropriate to state our position in Parliament after one of its speeches. Where are the institutions outside Parliament, the economy, the expertise, the knowledge and the civil world in three places where politics can be connected? Where it can be discussed, where the shapers of the public are also shaped by reality, so that they can do something different and differently? But we can't just stop at this issue, because then we could say that everything is okay. We need to see where we stand locally. How do we deal with the security of society, the economy and the surrounding environment? After all, there must be a new way of thinking in Hungary, and this thinking cannot only be economic or social. Questions should be inserted, so to speak, how and how the environment responds to this. [[13.50]] Finally, President of the Republic, we cannot set our common future on a sustainable growth path in Hungary, if today [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] the majority cannot relate to the future we wish to offer them. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-6	It is now time for the Christian Democratic People's Party representative, Mr András Aradski. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-7	Mr President, Mr. President of the Republic! Prime Minister! Dear House, Speaking as a Christian Democrat politician on the subject that the President of the Republic has said is easy and, on the other hand, very responsible. It is easy because, according to our basic principles, it is the duty of all humans to protect the created world. According to the teaching message of the book of Creation, according to its history, the Lord has given man the authority to rule the Earth, but I say that this is a teaching story, because it also means responsibility, it also demands responsibility for humanity, including for us Hungarians, Europeans and citizens living elsewhere on Earth. I am proud that in 2011 there were two major legislative acts in this House, which served climate protection, nature protection and sustainability. One of them was the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law, which, in addition to its many important values, is one of the fundamental laws in the world that talks most about the future, the culture of the future, sustainability, the environment, the preservation of the conditions for human existence? I mean, for the protection of the created world. It was important that in the same year we adopted the Hungarian energy strategy, which had sustainability in mind, but also ensured that renewable energies are adapted to energy use, and that we ensure that our society uses energy in line with the country's circumstances. It has been an important element of this energy strategy that has given priority to sustainable development in the field of training, i.e. strengthening education, and our future education policy puts great emphasis on ensuring a conscious, experienced and encouraging foundation for the protection of the created world. I also think it is very important to say, as the President of the Republic has said, that this is not a local issue. Not only is it a local issue, we can only provide our own strength, our own knowledge, our own intentions for a global solution, but it is a global issue. It is a global issue and a fundamental issue of human existence. It is a fundamental question of whether we will be able to think at global level on the issues of love, understanding and solidarity about how we can stop the negative processes that the President has outlined very nicely and figuratively. I think there is only one way to do this: in a global sense, you have to think with love and responsibility towards each other. It should be borne in mind whether, for example, it is possible to refuse to provide a higher standard of living for the population living there in Africa. Because of our inner impulse, our answer may not be denied. But do we think that this could have the consequence of extermination of African jungles, pollution of African natural resources, which will carry out the otherwise noble human will in a far worse way? I believe that there will be a great responsibility for policy in the future to address these issues at a global level, to eliminate post-Kyoto localisation, and to prepare for these changes with sufficient political will and by providing detailed, tailor-made and social information to the public. The Christian Democratic People's Party will act in support of this and welcome [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] thanks the President for his work so far. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-8	Dear House, Now, on behalf of Jobbik, it's Congressman Lajos Kepli. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-9	Mr President of the Republic. Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, First, allow me to refer to the first sentences of the President of the Republic's speech. He said that he reviewed all parties' electoral programmes and compared their arguments on environmental protection and climate policy. I ask the President of the Republic with deep respect, as the former head of the Fidesz faction, that this programme, i.e. the Fidesz electoral programme, be sent to us after three election campaigns, if you know it, as we have never met before. [[It's a rare round of applause from the LMP benches.]] Mr President of the Republic. There is no doubt about the importance of what you have said. I must state at the outset that you should be honoured for representing the subject on the international stage. The phenomenon called climate change and its accompanying global processes are today's and the most important problems for future mankind. So let us not deceive ourselves, and let us not continue with beliefs about who or what is causing these drastic changes. This is not the time. The most important question for us, Hungarian Members of Parliament, is what we need to do to mitigate or eliminate the effects on our country. However, before I get to this point, fellow Members, let us not be reticent and put our heads in the sand, let us face the past, the so-called democratic part of the past, which has been marked for the past 25 years. Let's face it, President of the Republic, in his speech at the UN Climate Summit in New York, he has painted the past decades unreasonably pink or, if you prefer, orange. Because what did János Áder say in New York? In Kyoto, Hungary undertook to reduce CO2 emissions by 6 percent. Compared to this, we have achieved a 40% reduction in the last 25 years, with Hungary's economy and GDP growing over the last 25 years, and Hungary not being able to separate itself from the various crises. The above sentence could have been spoken on the Jerevan radio in the joke, since the news is true, and even some elements of the news are true, but they are suitable for disguising the audience by putting it side by side. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the representatives of Fidesz and MSZP, who have been present among the governing parties for the last 25 years, what they can show up after a quarter of a century. Because the fact that CO2 emissions have decreased by 40 percent over the last 25 years is a nice number, but it doesn't mean anything. It is much more revealing that you destroyed and sold out the entire Hungarian industry and agriculture in less than a quarter of a century. Our nation's wealth was put on the market, misplaced, while they made a simple colony, a assembly country, out of our country. Thus, it is easy to produce results: if there is no industry, there is no CO2 emissions. It makes perfect sense. Just what happens in the background is worth looking at. You have done nothing to ensure that our country, prepared for the effects of climate change, reserves adequate water resources for water scarcity periods. Or how to deal with the flood issue, because the dams cannot be raised indefinitely. You have not done anything to keep our agricultural fields, which are key to the food of the Hungarians of the future, in Hungarian hands. You have destroyed the environment in Hungary, ladies and gentlemen, today there is no independent government representation in this area, and therefore climate protection. The CO2 quota trade is a purely economic operation which the European Union has made, which, by the way, a few dozen people at European level see in their entirety, because they have such complicated regulations. Obviously, that's not a coincidence. The President is an example of an increase in GDP, even though it has been proven a hundred times that GDP is a completely insensitive indicator for the change in our environmental status and the social situation of society. GDP is the profit that the multinational enterprise earns on the labour force for hunger and is also taking out of the country. But what does GDP say about natural disasters, millions of people living in poverty, the health and mental state of Hungarian society? It's nothing, isn't it? [[14.00]] Mr President, in a TV interview, are you talking about the fact that the shortage of drinking water from climate change and overpopulation is starting a huge migration towards more water-rich areas? Like the Carpathian Basin, I'll add. It also talks about public security, social, health and defence crises. I'm asking which of these things we're prepared for right now. Our defense would be partying with an army of a Monaco-sized state, but given its equipment, I suspect not. [[Dr. Csaba Hende is shaking his head.]] How can we control a migration wave? Is our health and social institution capable of dealing with the crisis? The answer can already be given on the basis of the current refugee problems: it is not suitable. So I suggest that instead of polishing the past and the present, we be busy making the future better. In this effort, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will become a partner of the government and that President of the Republic [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let me conclude with my words: after decades of past, irresponsibleness, the decades of responsibility must finally follow. We fully agree on this, and we will be fully partners with all political forces. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-10	Now, the last of the factions will be Vice-President Erzsébet Schmuck, representing the LMP, please.
u2014-10-20-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We thank the President of the Republic for bringing the issue of climate change to the Hungarian Parliament and for speaking in international and domestic forums on sustainable development. [[John Lazarus: That's right.]] Unfortunately, in the face of our daily problems, we rarely face global challenges, because we think that they are far from us, they do not affect us, even though they are here, and they affect our lives. Climate change has become a reality. The Framework Convention on Climate Change was adopted in Rio in 1992, at the World Conference on Environment and Development, but unfortunately, there was a lack of political will all along for individual countries? Like USA, Russia, China? undertake to take the necessary steps in proportion to their responsibilities and opportunities. [[John Lazarus: That's right. Long live America!]] Although the reduction obligations have been met in Hungary, this was due to the collapse of the heavy industry and the transformation of the economic structure. At global level, the efforts of the past years have not produced significant results, all of which have been extended until 2020 to cover commitments under the Kyoto Protocol that expire at the end of 2012. This is why it is no coincidence that the main objective of the United Nations event in New York was to create a political commitment to the new global agreement to be concluded in Paris in 2015 and, in conjunction with this, to encourage both the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and initiatives to adapt to climate change at national and regional level. The stakes are high. World countries need to agree on their contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and how much resources developed industrialised countries provide countries exposed to climate change to adapt to expected impacts, such as the transition to more environmentally friendly energy sources to adapt our agricultural production to changing climate conditions and reduce their losses. Hungary must also prepare for adaptation. We recommend that the Parliament review its tasks from time to time. Mr President, However, climate change is only one of the many environmental changes that threaten future generations' potential for life. The UN Committee on Environment and Development The report of our shared future in 1987 drew the world's leaders' attention to the fact that economic, social and environmental problems exist in one system, and therefore can only be solved in one system and not separately. In other words, together, we should find the right answers to all the problems, and not in the way that we usually look for answers to our problems separately. In keeping with the report of our joint future, it is necessary to mention that the document is ordering the relationship between the economy, society and the environment when it formulates the concept of sustainable development. Sustainable development means more than just economic growth. Growth needs to be changed in its content: it needs to be transformed into less material and energy-intensive so that its impact is more just. In other words, sustainable development does not mean maintaining economic growth, but rather economic growth in which GDP growth is in absolute terms divided from environmental burden growth and the goods produced are distributed fairly in society. It is a good expectation, but there is currently no evidence to suggest that it is possible, in absolute terms, to separate economic growth from the increase in environmental burdens. This fact leads us to recognise the very unpleasant link that the current macroeconomic model is inadequate to achieve sustainability objectives. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If we do not look for the ultimate cause of a problem, if we only treat the phenomena, then the problem will continue to grow further as long as the cause persists. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-12	Minister Sándor Fazekas wishes to respond on behalf of the government.
u2014-10-20-13	Mr President of the Republic. Mr. Speaker, Prime Minister! Dear Parliament, I would like to thank the President of the Republic for giving the Government the opportunity to discuss this very important subject before the agenda. The fight against climate change is a crucial challenge of our time, which no responsible government can ignore. The government has an appropriate institutional system to address this problem: environmental protection and nature conservation tasks are performed by the Ministry of Agriculture; all areas have a portfolio manager, a background institution, and all the assets and financial instruments that the Hungarian state, Hungary, can devote to these areas. Dear Parliament, It is clear that the effects of climate change have reached us in everyday life: in agricultural production and transport, they are a constant challenge. In the last thirty years, the average temperature has increased by almost 2 degrees, the precipitation has decreased, reaching unevenly. This is also a threat to food security, as there may be drought, flooding and inland water in the same area within a year. Compared to this, is it a great achievement that Hungarian agriculture - adapted to the changed weather? In four years, has it been able to increase its production by about 30 percent, while irrigated areas? I'll be back? They've barely changed. The government has developed a rural development programme for the 2014-2020 period, taking into account environmental conditions, and climate policy aspects have also been highlighted in all government programmes, so that EU and domestic resources can be used for these purposes through a number of titles and projects. It is the fourth national environmental programme that I would like to highlight, among the ongoing strategy-making activities. This will contribute to ensuring environmental conditions for sustainable development, and will also reflect the responsibility of environmental affairs to promote the economic and social development of the country, while consciously taking action against the destruction of social and environmental values. Our priority is security of persons and property, safeguarding property in relation to flood and internal water protection. Developments and dam constructions have been completed for hundreds of kilometres, water reservoirs have been built, and we will continue to do so. As regards irrigation, it is well known that there is currently a permit for irrigation for about 200,000 hectares, of which 80 to 100 thousand hectares are actually being watered in practice. Is there a watering-in-water system here? with a length of about 30 thousand kilometers? Two thirds of the last four years have been renewed, mostly with Start work, using EU funds. The National Water Management Board also assessed the water requirements for long-term irrigation. These relate to about a quarter of a million hectares of water to be irrigated. We can reach this goal in order to include these areas in irrigation. The conditions are in place, and therefore the safety of production will be more balanced. [[14.10]] We consider our effective participation in international and EU climate negotiations to be crucial in the coming years. Our country must choose the climate and energy targets well, so that the European framework resulting from it can address the issue of safeguarding a competitive economy and our environmental values. For the period 2021-2030, the EU Committee set out that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced by 40 per cent by 2030 compared to 90 per cent within the Union, the share of renewable energy should increase to at least 27 per cent and a 30% energy efficiency target for improved energy efficiency has been set. For renewable energy, biomass is used and public institutions are converted to shredding and wood burning. And we're in a good position? Was there any criticism of GDP? Hungary's GDP has quadrupled since 1990, while our emissions and greenhouse gas emissions have decreased to 40 percent. The Hungarian industry has grown significantly in other structures, competitively, in order to reindustrialise the country over the past period. This is an outstanding example of achieving sustainable development, a growth [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In the meantime, to spare the environment. This must continue to be our goal in the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-14	Mr President of the Republic points out that he does not wish to take advantage of the possibility of rejoinder, so I thank the President of the Republic and his dear guests for their participation. We are now taking the floor before the next agenda, so we will continue our work. And this debate is not just in the National Sustainable Development Council, which, by the way, is it? I'm talking to the head of the MSZP faction? It was created in your government cycle, where we can continue with the involvement of social actors, provided that this forum is taken seriously by parties as well as by various actors in society, or more seriously than before. Similarly, we can and should continue in Parliament's committees, not only in the Committee on Sustainable Development, but also in other committees. Ladies and gentlemen, On this day's day, Mr Attila Harangozó, on behalf of the MSZP, asked to speak before the agenda with a title on our current affairs. Congressman's got the floor.
u2014-10-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, many interesting, almost science fictional things have happened today. The other day, for example, we had an intergalactic meeting, and we learned that our empire was stronger and more successful than ever. During the great lord's speech, we could almost see with our eyes, with one hand he reduces the overhead, with the other he gives everyone work, drives away evil cynicism from the territory of the entire empire. Unfortunately, we couldn't find out anything else important. Meanwhile, in a distant galaxy on the planet Earth, in a proud little country called Hungary, it was discovered that entrepreneurs close to the governing parties, reportedly government officials, were banned from the United States for corruption-suspecting cases. The Prime Minister is silent, the Minister of Foreign Affairs knows nothing, and he is no longer in the country, and the leader of the ruling party can't decide whether this thing is funny or not; while people don't understand exactly what's going on and guess who's involved and what kind of corruption cases it might be. Private pension, maybe? Maybe about the investment of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant? What about the government order of hundreds of billions of dollars in the U.S. government? Or the e-toll system, the online cash registers, the traff, the gambling, the land, the savings union, the NAV scandal? Who knows, right? The list is very long, it can be sorted. The Prime Minister is silent, and until the charges are cleared, both the government and the Fidesen will have the mark of corruption. Viktor Orbán, as Prime Minister and party president, is responsible for this issue in one person. You could solve it in a person, all you have to do is conduct an internal investigation where you ask your fellow party members and subordinates, say who is personally involved in the matter. Then you just have to tell me and decide what the consequences will be. We're waiting for your answer. And then there's the budget issue that's come up fast. Although last week the government was talking about filing in November, it also had some cosmic force to make this event seem to be speeding up. It would be nice to hear some frank sentences here, instead of bullshit and deceiving people. Orbán said earlier here in Parliament, and I quote: "The state should take on more responsibility, not less; spend more money on health and education, and not less. Compared to this, nearly HUF 300 billion has been withdrawn from health care in recent years. There's a shortage of doctors and nurses every day, waiting lists are growing. In addition to the medications, we are slowly beginning to see that doctors are being treated by patients who wish to receive care. Meanwhile, you're opening a private hospital, and paying health care is sneaking in. The situation will be clear, and the country will be split up here: millions of Hungarians will be given bled-out public hospitals, and the ruling elite will have private hospitals that fit science fiction. You fooled people. Similarly, people have been deceived in the field of education, practically introducing higher education, beating up public education. The CLIK is today synonymous with chaos and professional incompetence. The textbook market has been destroyed and hundreds of billions have also been withdrawn from this area. But you have also deceived people in the area of social security. Instead of help, they promised me a job, but tell me what kind of work it is that people don't get the wage they need for the minimum living. You have promised a million new jobs, but you cannot deliver any results other than the Public Works Programme. This is mostly shown by the nearly half a million fellow citizens who were forced to go abroad to care for themselves and their families at all. You've deceived these people badly. You can say, ladies and gentlemen, that you have won sci-fi election victories this year. Indeed, it was won with science fiction and science fiction-style lies. And as confident and self-righteous as they are, the time will come when people will turn off this bad, ZS-class science-fiction movie. They're gonna stand up off the couch and they're gonna see for themselves how much they've been deceived. The time will come, fellow Members, always remember that before they say or do anything. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-20-16	Minister János Lázár will answer on behalf of the Government.
u2014-10-20-17	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, We can all be grateful to my fellow Member who has been ringing the bell, for the internal struggles and frustrated position of the MSZP has presented and demonstrated to us here just now, when he tried to speak eclectically with several days of news. Some of these are on behalf of the government, given the fact that we are dealing with the internal affairs of the MSZP, I am only trying to comment with sufficient restraint. Political corruption in Hungary is synonymous with the MSZP in the eyes of voters. [[Noise, uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. ? Zoltán Lukács: You used to be better than this.]] So if you think of political corruption, it means the Hungarian Socialist Party at the moment. [[Noise.]] In this context, you have great truth... If I may say so, in this context you have a great truth that the corruption of the Hungarian Socialist Party has had political consequences, because if you hadn't been as corrupt as you were, we wouldn't have won twice the election. So, in fact, our election victory has been greatly contributed by your corruption. This, of course, gives no authority to anyone, to you or anyone else, but let us be clear when you talk about corruption and stigmatizing corruption, it is partly done from experience, and partly the most corrupt political party since the change of regime, that was the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP.]] The second comment, which concerns the budget, the Hungarian Government reviewed the Minister of Economy's budget proposal twice last week and submitted the budget proposal to the Fiscal Council and the Parliament for 2015 in accordance with the laws, but also with flash-forwards from 2016. You always think of austerity. There will be no restrictions on the,, 15 and, 16 budgets. [[Noise, interrogations from the lines of the MSZP, including Dr. Tamás Attila Harangozó: No, because there was already.]] There will be no withdrawal of funds in the budget of 15 and 16 and even in the budget of 15 in addition to the fact that a number of social systems will operate at the current level, and we will preserve this rise in standards. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] In the coming years, special attention will be paid to the support of foreign exchange lenders and the accountability of banks. Perhaps the most recent part of what he has to say, given that the National Security Committee has just completed its meeting, is a serious, meaningful and profound affair between the United States of America and Hungary, according to the government, currently in front of the press and the public in the country. First of all, I would like to start with what George Bush said here in Budapest on 23 June 2006 in connection with the commemoration of the 1956 revolution: Hungary is in the heart of Europe, Hungary is the triumph of freedom over tyranny, and America is proud to call Hungary a friend. [[Noise, interrogations, clarification in the ranks of the MSZP: When was that? ? That was a long time ago.]] [[14.20]] What I can tell you is that the most important thing for Hungary in this and in any other debate concerning America is that the American people and the Hungarian people have had outstanding friendships and decisive, unselfish friendships for a long time. This was the case after the war, so it was after 56 when hundreds of thousands of people were saved by the Americans, and so it was when they did everything in the 1990s to create the rule of law conditions of the democratic institutional system in Central Europe with Hungary. And that was also the case when we fought together as allies in the NATO mission, or we tried together to put an end to the South Slavic wars and bring peace to the Balkans. Hungary was a reliable and good ally, partly officially, and partly because of friendly respect and friendship between the two peoples of the United States of America. The Hungarian government will continue to respect the friendship of the two peoples, which is what it considers to be the most important and considers today's issue to be relevant to the friendship between these two countries and the two peoples, while the United States of America is a strategic ally for the Hungarian government. Despite the history of our thousand-year statehood, we are a small country and a small people, so we need great friends, and in this situation we need the help of the United States of America to understand the situation. We note that, according to the United States of America's temporary agent, several Hungarian citizens are subject to full legal restrictions and entry restrictions in the United States of America's legal process, but as friends, as friends where the two peoples are real friends and allies, the Hungarian government is turning to the US government for help in order to inform the Hungarian Government as a real friend of why this is happening. Referring to the statement that the US Government has official and reliable, credible information on the matters involved, neither the persons nor the cases are known in any form by the Hungarian Government. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-18	Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a speech before the agenda: When will the government finally admit that there is a big problem? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We have tried to have a substantive debate here on the subject of emigration many times over the past period, but unfortunately, instead of discussing the substantive steps here, we still need to talk about when the government will admit how serious the problem is, how serious the crisis is, what crisis we are talking about. There's always been excuses and explanations. Now, there are three categories of what we've heard from you. There were times when motivations were called into question, and you said that this was a desire for adventure, and these young people and less young people were primarily motivated by it, and I think that was the most outrageous of the government. As a second option, you always point back, in which there are so many truths that this phenomenon really started before 2010, but you have been ruling for four and a half years, and the trend of emigration and tendency in people has only increased and increased during this period. In the third case, which is usually mentioned as an excuse, the Secretary of State of Czomba said for the last time that no one can say how many people emigrated from Hungary in recent years or decades. Now, this has changed, because last week, KSH, which is a national organization under government supervision, has shown that according to their surveys, 350 thousand people have left Hungary and are living abroad at the moment. This is a conservative estimate, as they put it delicately, showing that it is an underestimation of numbers, and I think that we all, who deal with this phenomenon, perceive it and know that it is an underestimation of these numbers, even because it was a year and a half ago, and only those who have been abroad for more than a year have been taken into account. They did not include commuters to neighbouring countries, we know very well that only tens of thousands go to Austria. This survey also showed a lot of alarming things. One of them is that the most educated leave our country. This is shown by the fact that 32 percent of emigrants are graduates, with only 18 percent of those left at home. We can also see from this that the most educated, the tongue-speakers leave our country, unfortunately, which makes this situation worse. You are talking about adventure, but the survey also denies this, because the statistics of the KSH show that 84 percent of emigrants have gone abroad to work. From now on, I think that your explanation that this is not justified by an economic motivation, that they cannot find decent, well-paying jobs at home, but that these figures do support this. The saddest thing is that less than 10 percent of the respondents reported a definite intention to return home, and here let us pause for a moment to confront them by responding to this suggestion that one of their important tasks is to create a country where young people and less young people want to come home to. Dear Secretary of State, Ten percent of the people out there would like to come home to the country you created. I think this is a more serious certificate for your four-and-a-half-year performance. The biggest problem is that we are not talking about what substantial steps you have taken, we are not talking about whether you have provided enough state space in higher education, whether you have managed to expand the state framework so that everyone can learn. We are not talking about whether, let's say, the money to start the rental program is sufficient. We are not talking about whether the adopted Youth Law is correct and gives young people the security they want to feel. We are not talking about whether we have managed to reduce youth unemployment to a sufficient degree, whether we have managed to get a decent job for this young generation. And we could talk about a number of issues that might seem small here at the parliamentary level, but it would be a very important gesture for young people to feel that the government is dealing with them, the government considers this generation important and wants to keep it at home. Instead of talking about these substantive steps, I still have to ask you whether you will finally understand how bad the problem is, whether you will make a point of seducing these young people or keeping them at home. I would therefore like to see that we can move past this and finally talk about substantive steps. We would like to promote this as an initiative, and we would like to launch an emigration parliamentary political debate on behalf of Jobbik. I am going to look for the faction leaders today, and I trust that the government, in addition to admitting the seriousness of the problem, will be open to us to think together, and this will also give the young and less young people a signal that we are thinking about them together, that they are important to us, and that we would like to take the steps that can keep them at home or bring them home. We trust the government will be open to this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-20	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2014-10-20-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I believe that we have already talked a lot about this issue here, within the walls of Parliament, and that we have not heard anything new from the Member on this issue. We work here in Parliament to make it better for everyone in Hungary; for those who work here, who want to work here, or who are working abroad right now, but who would like to come home and continue his life. When we talk about this situation of working abroad, we need to see that this is not a Hungarian speciality, it is not a Hungarian problem. From Poland to Slovakia to Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia, all countries have the same issue. The fact that many young people and many middle-aged people work abroad was a consequence of our accession to the European Union on 1 May 2004. The countries that fell further west of us have gradually built up the barriers with which the labour force was only temporarily left to settle, now there is no such barrier, no quota, no restrictions, and that is why Poles, Slovaks, Hungarians started and took up work in Western Europe, obviously because wages are much higher than Hungary, and in this respect they were looking for their prosperity in other countries. At the same time, if you look at the percentages that show how many percent of Hungary's countries work abroad, then Hungary is a little higher or a little higher percentage of them? by a tenth percent? who went from, say, Hungary to work abroad, like those from Italy. We are head-to-head with Italy, which, after all, is a country developing under more democratic conditions and market economy conditions than Hungary, but there is only a tenth of a percentage difference in the proportion of those working abroad, but, let's say, more people from Austria work abroad than from Hungary. Not to mention Slovakia, Romania or Poland. In this respect, Hungary represents not only the Central European countries, but also the Western countries, with relatively fewer people working abroad. Nevertheless, it is also a task for us to give young people who have either university education or secondary education...? I do not know why, for example, you have left out skilled workers, who have some skills, and they, if I remember correctly, are included in this statement by at least 36 percent. [[14.30]] They're as needed as graduates. And a lot of the graduates are outlaws, so? Apart from doctors and engineers? The majority do not work in the job they have acquired from taxpayers' money, but do a job that does not require training. However, if we have mentioned those with higher education, those with secondary education will have an equally important role to play in Hungary's future. The congressman says that we have been making excuses in the past years, and that is not the case at all. It's just, you know, when we made a decision that we think is beneficial for young people, families, workers or entrepreneurs, we made it so that it would be beneficial for those who live here now and for those who have temporarily gone abroad. Did you forget to quote that from the statistics? The ones you've been reading? that those who have recently gone out have a very strong desire to return to Hungary, and that someone who has been out for, say, ten years is constantly, year after year, reduced the planning to come back to Hungary. And obviously, if you start a family there and your spouse is not Hungarian, then there is less chance that you will return than if two Hungarians connect their lives and have children. But the fact that the total national product grew by 3.9 percent in Hungary compared to a year ago is also good news for young people working abroad, because the economy is growing in few places in Western Europe and there are few places where new jobs are created. The fact that the unemployment rate fell from 11.1 percent to 8 percent made Hungary more attractive to return than it did four years ago. The difference is not only that the Prime Minister does not now say that it is possible to leave Hungary? as Ferenc Gyurcsány did? Hungary is now calling home all young people, for example, with new jobs. Youth unemployment, which is most affected by the age group working abroad, you know that in 2010, it was 25 percent, now it was less than 20 percent, the last 19 percent was the rate that marked this age group, while, let's say, in Spain, the unemployment rate for young people is around 50 percent. So in this respect, the growing economy and falling unemployment can now be an attractive home opportunity for many. We can say this not only in the language of the speeches, but also, Congressman, if you look at the data of the German statistical office, between 2004 and 2010, a average of 14 and 16 thousand Hungarian compatriots returned from Germany alone. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But in the last 2-3 years, this has increased to over 36,000, so there are a lot more people coming back than in previous years. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-22	Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group from the LMP, also spoke before the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the situation brought about by the US ban decisions is humiliating and shameful for Hungary. Is it possible to reflect on the genuine concern behind the decision of the United States about the purity of public life? Just like Chief Rogán did at the end of the week? However, that is not the issue at present. Is Hungary so? And we have to acknowledge that? In a global conflict of interest, he lost his capacity to act in foreign policy. Hungary, as it has been so many times in the past centuries, has been tragically abandoned once again. How did this situation come up? We see three reasons. First of all, is it worth seeing that those countries in the region? Like Poland, Romania? It does not matter whether Parliament is divided, there is a two-thirds majority in parliament or minority governance, on the main national strategy issues, when it comes to national interests, 3/3, non-public, social 3/3. This is not the case in Hungary. In order for the government to have a social 3/3 behind it, not only the parliamentary opposition, the domestic small and medium-sized enterprise sector and social self-organizations may also be necessary. Compared to this, the urban legends spread even after the change of government of 10, that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises were approached by close government actors by handing over their company. In recent months, social self-organizations feel that they are threatened by power, and the message that you have sent to the opposition since 2010 has been about what is beyond the two thirds of it. You have obtained a two-thirds majority in a legitimate way, but you must acknowledge that at least 5 million of the voters have never voted for Fidesz. An effective national interest can be enforced if the government has a strong hinterland behind it in the main national strategy issues, which extends beyond its own electoral camp. This is also necessary in order to ensure that all political forces, all economic operators, will be at the back of the current government if measures are to be taken to harm Hungary's interests. We are partners in this, but in the current situation, the Prime Minister must take the first step to find out, through Kehin, who are the government persons who are being expelled and what reasons have been given for the Embassy of the United States; for this, Viktor Orbán has full authority. The second question is that after 2010, and especially after the current election, you thought that you could have everything. Can you get away with the land robberies, the tramp dog, laughing at people and companies with laws, get away with the NAV scandal? Even though what was discovered there doesn't only concern your government cycle? There is no need to explain the inexplicable wealth increases, no need to explain the tax incentives granted to priority strategic partners, as the two thirds justify everything. The only thing I can tell you is that it protects this country from the fact that there may be outsiders, foreign authorities, who know more about these matters than we say, the Hungarian opposition or Hungarian citizens. A country whose leadership can be blackmailed from the outside, has no capacity to act, and a country whose leadership can be blackmailed from the outside becomes blackmailable and loses its capacity to act. Next week, therefore, we will be presenting an anti-corruption package containing the proposals that we have tabled in recent years and swept off the table and re-launched our NAV investigation committee initiative. Thirdly, we also need to see that the government has gone too far in strengthening Eastern relations. The Paks II. In all its tastes, the Orbán-Putin pact is contrary to Hungary's strategic interests, and on the last day of the debate we drew attention to the fact that, in addition to environmental and public finances, there are serious national security risks. If we look back at the case that arose around the ax killer, if we look back at the fact that the Hungarian Prime Minister sells the cheap Hungarian labour force in Saudi Arabia, behind it with János Kóka, if we look back on how Nazarbaev is glorified by the Hungarian government, we can see that he is maneuvering Hungary into a group of countries where there is a guarantee of permanent break-off. In the first step, we continue to demand that the government [[The president's ringing the bell.]] immediately review the Orbán-Putin pact. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-24	Minister János Lázár is next, please.
u2014-10-20-25	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, There was some truth in his findings, but he was trying to wash things together that had nothing to do with each other. He is right that a government should strive to truly represent 3/3 in the enforcement of national interest. Is that why Hungary has for the past four years and for the next four years? Can I say it with a calm conscience and a good heart? It's not an emotional issue, it's basically a matter of reason and interest. You can review any cooperation with Russia, which is not a love affair in our case, practically about how 3 million 600 thousand households will have gas from November 2014 to April 2015. You can undertake your review so that this 3 million 600,000 households do not heat gas, but they do fuel gas, and 80 percent of this gas comes from Russia. This talent, this determination, we have to have an affair, and we're trying to do this the most practical, the most effective, acting in accordance with our vows, completely? Quote? to act in search of the country's benefits and prosperity. You are confusing a specific act and a political debate about Hungary's external relations going in the right or wrong direction. I hope you don't mean to say, Congressman, or you don't want Parliament to believe that in America, in the citadel of democracy and in the citadel of the rule of law, if something doesn't please the Americans in a country, they will ban people, citizens of that state, in return. I don't think that's possible. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks. ? Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: This is a joke!]] Honestly, it's not a joke, fellow Members, it's a deadly serious matter, it's a very serious matter. [[14.40]] In my opinion, it is unthinkable that the banning of political displeasure, without reason, of Hungarian citizens, may be a retaliation. The Hungarian government's position is that this, what happened last week, is a concrete disbarment case, and it has nothing to do with the Hungarian-American political relationship, which, of course, has disputes. Mr.Péter Szijjártó has now been sent to Washington by Viktor Orbán to find out partly about the criticisms that have been formulated without foundation or basis in the American-Hungarian relationship, especially with regard to the Ukrainian-Russian conflict. Undoubtedly, we must explain to all our allies. I was also sent to Berlin by the Prime Minister to Chancellor Merkel's Chancellor, in order to try to shed light on Hungary's relationship, its pragmatic and practical relationship with Russia and its need to be with Russia in connection with the construction of the South Stream, due to gas supply and cheap energy. But this does not mean that we are not committed to NATO alliances, depending, of course, on our financial and tax burden, and does not mean that we are not the right allies of the European Union. If you mean the political debate that is being formulated in America, the rule of law, the choice of values, then we are forced to send the US Government to Brussels, because Hungary, as a member of the European Union, has undergone an unprecedented investigation over the past four years. Is the European Commission and the Venice Commission all questions concerning the rule of law? You know that, because you were involved in the debate? have been thoroughly inspected. The European Commission, the only member of the European Union from Hungary, has issued a certificate stating that there is something good in the concept of the Fundamental Law, that we have had to amend and that we have brought to justice. There was what we won, and there was something we lost, so, of course, we had to change the various laws. The same was the case with the Venice Commission. The European Commission closed the investigations of the rule of law against Hungary and found the Hungarian rule of law appropriate to the European order. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's not true!]] Of course it's true. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It's simply not true!]] My fellow Member, you can yell at him, but the reality is...
u2014-10-20-26	Would you mind restraining yourself, Congressman, if I may?
u2014-10-20-27	Is it true that the European Commission is after four years of scrutiny? President Barroso announced it here in Budapest at the beginning of September? all investigations have been closed as regards the Commission's examination of the rule of law, as did the Venice Commission. On the specific matter, Congressman. We, the Hungarian Government, need the United States of America to help us find out who they are who have committed a crime according to credible information, they may have committed a crime. Neither the Minister of Economic Affairs nor the Prime Minister have credible information, no evidence of criminal suspicion that any Hungarian government official has committed or suspected any crime. If there were, he would have done everything in his power to investigate and establish responsibility. Can the United States government help us? who must have specific information on a specific case? to provide information on the basis of which we will launch a rigorous and consistent investigation. We can't get 900,000 civil servants and civil servants to investigate how many people were notified to the Americans. In addition, the U.S. government is not obliged to state the grounds for disbarment. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-28	On behalf of Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, on behalf of the KDNP, she also applied for a speech before the agenda with the title "Our Holidays and Schools." Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-20-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, As we all know, two weeks ago it was October 6th, three days later it's October 23rd. These two dates are linked by the fact that each of our days connects us to the shocking moments of Hungarian history. We have heard that preparations start in our cities today and tomorrow; roadblocks and stage constructions mark the external signs of the celebration, celebration and commemoration. For years, we have been accustomed to attending these commemorations, whether on 23 October or on another national holiday, mostly older adult people. And where are our young people? And how do they celebrate? This is what I would like to say briefly, with the work of schools, teachers and directors, and how we can get young people to know the facts, so that they know the events, they know the reasons for what led to October 6 and October 23, so that they can remember them and tell them, they can pass them on to their sons; that they can relate to these holidays with emotion, because without emotion, the holiday is not really a celebration, as we know. And what is the purpose of these holidays for our young people and adults? Obviously, the idea of national identity, the sense of patriotism, the Hungarian consciousness that was actually mentioned here in the speeches before me; which teaches us to unite, which teaches us to respect, appreciate our values, and to be proud of them in front of the world, so that we can behave in a manner of three thirds when it comes to the issues of fate in Hungary. Well, how do you do that? The responsibility of families cannot be suppressed. A multitude of pedagogical research shows that families, parents, adults talk very, very little to their children. They don't have a theme, they sometimes say to the researcher's questions, they ask them what number you got at school, the kid says nothing or a threesome, it's taken care of. Why can't we talk to them for days about why the Hungarian flag is leaking on 23 October; why do we go to the Fujei Road cemetery on 6 October? Not only to listen to nice military music, but this has a premonition. The little kid understands, the kindergarten kid understands, the middle school kid understands. What the child absorbs in the family, he'll take with him, and he'll be able to talk to his peers at school about it. Well, besides the family, of course, the school has nothing else to do with our children living the holidays. In kindergarten, like I said. We may all have seen scenes of small national flags being stabbed by the little kindergarteners on 15 March; they do not understand anything yet, but the experience remains in them, they remember that, and the repeated celebrations over the years will have their effect. It is customary to go to a museum during the holidays, go to a movie with children, and there are many other customs in schools. These sometimes get a little empty, and school celebrations may become gray, so those celebrations, the commemorations where the children are assigned a job are good. I was recently informed that, remembering October 6th, a scout squad was repairing soldiers' graves. Last year I was informed that here, before October 23rd, high school students in Budapest were repairing 56 graves. All within the framework of high school community service. And, well, it's come to my attention that the same kids came back a year later to say they wanted to do this. It's nothing more than what we call acting love. And if we raise children to do this, if we fill these holidays with content and emotion, then we may well hope that another generation here in Parliament will speak not only in a hypocritical way about three thirds of Hungarian issues, but also in real life with emotion and consciousness, and will act in the world in a way that Hungarians will regain their honour. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. ? It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2014-10-20-30	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2014-10-20-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, these celebrations are an important element of a common collective identity creation, as the majority of children collect those impulses that are important to the nation's consciousness, not only in material knowledge, but also in emotions, which then determines their vision for the future for the rest of their lives. What kind of history teacher he was and how he was taught by XIX-XX. It can greatly influence the events of the century, its whole world view. It is therefore important, also because of national solidarity, because of the common past, the respect of common heroes, that as many schools as possible have as many colorful memorials as possible, indeed, as you said, not simply by means of this kind of celebration, but by living, living and involving young people. Today, they can go to many places in Budapest or in the countryside, whether they are to be visited by the Rákosi system, with services, attic sweeps, internments, against which people moved and rebelled as one man. It is also possible for a young person today to better follow the events that took place there by identifying with the revolution of 56 because this revolution was primarily the revolution of the man of the street, the revolution of the boys of Pest. [[14.50]] At that time, Hungarians were not one of the charismatic figures or figures, such as those in the Rákóczi War of Liberty or the 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence, where Kossuth, Széchenyi, Vasvári, Petőfi and others could be listed, who were the leaders of the Hungarian masses who wanted freedom at the time, but here the crowd itself led people, or Imre Nagy or others. Imre Nagy did not tell the crowd to follow me there, but the crowd demanded that they take the lead and implement freedom and democracy as widely as possible in Hungary. That is why it is important for students to visit places in the area where everyday heroes of the revolution, the boys of Pest, rest, or where they lost their lives, or where they lived and have a memorial plaque, are wreathed. It is often a much more empathetic experience for a young person to have a wreath at a revolutionary character's board in a building four or five houses away than to talk about big state leaders, generals, as it shows them that this revolution took place here on the streets of Pest, the main leaders of this revolution were young people who are now able to go to school or university or become young workers. It is not only 23 October that we can remember these victims of the communist dictatorship, but let us not forget that another 23rd of Hungary's initiative, 23rd of August, is the XX. The commemorative day of the victims of dictatorships in the 20th century was adopted not only by Hungary, but by the European Council during the Hungarian EU Presidency. Therefore, we can say that there is another time, true, in the middle of the summer, when we can remember all Hungarian heroes, we can remember all the Hungarian victims who lost their lives, freedom and wealth during the communist period, and we recognize this not only in Hungary, but also the first day of memory at European level for the victims of the communist dictatorship. I think it is important for us Hungarians, who have suffered a great deal from both the brown and red dictatorship, and we carry the wounds of both of them with us even to this day, and to this day, even the political discourse is determined that, at European level, if you like, the Hungarian revolutionary victims have been emancipated, and they must be remembered in all the 28 Member States of the European Union, too, because, as our basic law says, our current freedom is rooted in the revolution of 56. We believe that on the cover of the 1957 Time magazine, the Hungarian guy in Pest, the Hungarian revolutionist in Pest, was not in vain, because it was this revolution that exposed many thinking people in Western Europe and others to the real face of communism, that this is not a system that most people agree with, it is not a system that most people want, but it was a dictatorial system that was done against the will of people. At that time, the Soviet propaganda at that time was able to believe in many places among the left-wing intellectuals that there was prosperity here, equality, and freedom for the people in Central Europe, but the revolution of 56 took away this kind of innocence in Western Europe even before the last naive thinkers, in several countries the communist parties at the time were split in two, as many had opened their eyes. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is why we also owe respect to revolutionaries in schools in 56. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-32	At the end of the speeches before the agenda, Mr Antal Rogán, the leader of the Group, will be Mr. Speak on behalf of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today in the European Parliament, the Democratic Coalition, two representatives of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, Mr Niedermüller and Mr Molnár, are organising a so-called hearing aimed at another attack on Hungary in the international community, in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, At least they've been trying to hide from others so far. For the first time, Ferenc Gyurcsány's fellow Members will take the attack on Hungary into their own names. What has happened at least every time so far is that they have been hiding behind Tavares or behind other left-wing representatives in the European Parliament. For the first time, we can see that Ferenc Gyurcsány's fellow Members send out the invitation themselves and organise the hearing themselves to attack Hungary, bring Hungary into bad news about the election of the members of the European Parliament tomorrow or the European Commission on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, we have not once been accustomed to the fact that left-wing parties and representatives who have not once lost the parliamentary elections or even the European Parliament elections in their home country, after which their positions and political positions in international life are being used to not accepting the results of the election, attacking their own country badly. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is particularly painful now, and it is completely unjustified, because we all know very well that this is all about nothing but that, when the European Parliament votes on the members of the European Commission on Wednesday, Hungary is obviously attacked and attacked, of course, against the Hungarian delegation, Tibor Navracsics. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a highly unusual procedure not adopted in Europe. I do not know much about the fact that, by the way, MEPs from a European country are in opposition only because they are organising hearings or launching attacks against their own country, and we all know very well that on issues where both the European Parliament and the European Commission have established well-established dispute resolution procedures, which we have been going through in recent years, to which Minister Lázár referred here, when he spoke and responded to Mr Schiffer. Every time these dispute settlement procedures are respected by Hungary, they go through them, and if a different decision is taken on disputes, they have been accepted on each occasion and otherwise passed through domestic legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can see something similar now when we are talking about the details of that ban case here in Parliament, because I see that some of my fellow Members are trying to be more pope than the Pope. I'd like to ask you not to get ahead of yourselves. We do not know exactly what this is about, because a few days ago, my fellow Members, we were able to hear solid evidence from the U.S. administrator that those who are being banned benefit from so-called corruption. But I was on a TV show with the U.S. attorney yesterday, and he didn't say that at all today, but he said that this had nothing to do with any specific acts of corruption, and he talked about corruption in general. Ladies and gentlemen, From now on, I think it is in everyone's common interest to clarify specifically what cases we are talking about, what evidence we have, and to ask the United States of America to help us in cases that are also persecuted by Hungarian laws, such as corruption, so that we can pursue this together, to reveal their evidence. There are also forms of cooperation between Hungarian-American relations. But I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that many opposition representatives or former politicians want to use this in the same way as the attacks in the European Parliament to open another international scene against Hungary. For example, this has already been mentioned in the so-called international organisation on the community of democracy in the world, where proceedings are already pending against Hungary. And what does God give you when you look for the website of this organization and see who of the members of the permanent secretariat is there who is senior advisor, honourable fellow Members, Dr. Mátyás Eörsi among the main colleagues [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] who has personally organised such hearings and launched attacks on more than one occasion. I would like to ask the former members of the Gyurcsány government and representatives of the Gyurcsány coalition not to organize any more attacks on Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] adopt the results of parliamentary, European Parliament and local elections. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-34	On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2014-10-20-35	Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Mr President, Today, the Hungarian-American ban case is mentioned several times, on which we would like to state some very important points regarding the whole Hungarian-American relationship system, because this is the context within which we can interpret what has happened and where we can place exactly what is happening. [[15.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, There are some very important facts that characterize this relationship system and make it extremely solid. One of these, and perhaps the very first, is that the United States of America is Hungary's political and military ally. It's an insurmountable axioma that penetrates our entire relationship system and puts it on a very solid basis. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I respectfully ask which other form of cooperation between two countries could give us a stronger bond and assume greater trust than the voluntary commitment to protect each other with arms if necessary. As a result, this House, Hungarian-American military-security policy cooperation, has reached unprecedented intensity. Hungary has repeatedly sacrificed blood in the framework of this cooperation in recent years, which our American partners have greatly acknowledged and greatly appreciated. The next important item that we need to state about the Hungarian-American relationship system is the success of our economic cooperation. Between Hungary and America, trade traffic almost quadrupled in terms of Hungarian surplus, after Hungary's exports to the United States increased by more than 40 percent in the first seven months of this year. In addition, the United States of America is the first on the list of foreign investors in Hungary, if we look at external relations. I could tell you more about the numbers: American companies give jobs directly to more than 80,000 Hungarian citizens in Hungary. Nor can any other investor outside Europe own this number. As regards the current security situation in the region, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's role has been greatly appreciated by the fact that there is virtually a war in Ukraine, and after 15 years there is once again an armed conflict in the neighbourhood of Hungary. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, regardless of political dialogue, this is a circumstance that has put Hungary back in the focus of America and NATO. On this basis, Mr House, Mr Group Leader, I would like to stress that the Government has no other request to the American party in relation to the ban case than to disclose the allegedly credible information and information on the basis of which it has taken this decision. At present, the Hungarian government has not received any credible, concrete and usable information about exactly what is behind this case. Dear House, As far as the events in Brussels are concerned, as we have heard today, Hungary has been screened from the inside in recent years. I think that there is no other country in Europe today, on which there would be written evidence, a certificate, that it practically complies with Community law in all respects. To return to the American issue for one more word, I would like to point out to this House that this is a matter of extraordinary importance which requires political consensus, at least a political consensus. I think, listening to opposition contributions, that we are not far from that. All of us have an eminent common interest and, above all, the interests of the Hungarian nation require us to see with complete clarity what has happened as soon as possible, and we will be able to take further steps if our American partners finally come forward with the alleged evidence and we can talk about specifics. We must always consider these steps to be unfounded. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Varju, independent; László Kiss, MSZP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; István Ikotity, LMP. Dear Parliament, President János Áder sent the Parliament a transcript of the appointment of a new State Secretary. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present it.
u2014-10-20-37	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the Parliament that Article 9 (four) (j) of the Fundamental Law and XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On 16 October 2014, I appointed Ákos Kara as State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development. Budapest, 15 October 2014 Sincerely, János Áder.
u2014-10-20-38	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish you an effective work and success in your work. Dear Parliament, Mr László Botka informed me on 16 October 2014 that, in view of his election as mayor, he had resigned. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Mr. Mayor effective work and good luck. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Dear Parliament, There will now be a final vote on international conventions. I would like to inform you that the Committee on the Bill has not come forward and that no amendment has been tabled, so the House Rules 102. Paragraph 6 of this Article provides that the final vote may be retained. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the abolition of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income taxes, signed in Manama on 24 February 2014, follows. The submission was made in T/61. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/61. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 155 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the publication of the Convention on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in the field of income and property taxes, signed in Riyadh on 23 March 2014. The submission was made in T/62. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/62 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill on the publication of the agreement on the exchange of tax information between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Jersey, signed in London on 28 January 2014 follows. The submission was made in T/63. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/63 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 156 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill between the Taipei Hungarian Commercial Office and the Hungarian Taipei Representative Office will follow. The submission was made in T/803. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/803 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[15.10]] Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Romania on road connections across the Hungarian-Romanian border follows. The submission is T/1275. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1275 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote of the bill on the publication of an amendment to the Customs Convention of 14 November 1975 for the international carriage of goods by TIR means of a TIR certificate follows. The submission is T/1505. Available on the website. The rapporteur is T/1505/2. an adjustment has been submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/1505. Act No 1 together with an adaptation containing grammatical clarification. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament adopted the bill with 159 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, A final vote on the draft law on the temporary importation of goods in Istanbul, of 26 June 1990, and on the publication of amendments to its Annexes. The submission is T/1506. Available on the website. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/1506 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill with 159 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Now we continue our work with the interpellations. Dear Parliament, Before we get to the discussion of interpellations, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the House Rules of Decision 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Mr László Szakács I/1588. and K/1616. Rejected his oral question [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Article 124 (a) Mr László Szakács I/1588. and K/1616. (Influence in the ranks of the MSZP.) As the motions do not fall within the remit of the Minister for National Economy Mihály Varga. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with interpellations. Tamás Harangozó, representative of MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. When will the new police career model be introduced? It's an address. Congressman Tamás Bellozó has the floor.
u2014-10-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In the spring of 2010, Viktor Orbán promised the police a good salary and career career in his government programme, and I quote: , which includes both predictable and secure income developments and the solution to the housing situation. After the change of government, negotiations were launched on the introduction of a new professional career model. However, these negotiations were interrupted within a few months, and instead of good pay, the retirement of the service pension took place instead of freezing salaries and predictable advances. Now, four years later, they again came up with the promise of a professional career model. They renegotiate with the unions, they have a government commissioner appointed for the task, and they even created a full department of ministry. And, of course, there's a thousand times the promise that it'll be much better for every law enforcement worker. However, the specifics remain lacking. Thus, it is not known whether a service pension scheme will be re-introduced, or whether police officers, migration firefighters or Bv supervisors will continue to be active until they are 60 years of age. Although there are only days left until next year's budget is submitted, it is not known whether additional resources are being allocated to the introduction of the new salary system. The position of the MSZP on these issues is well known. There is no new system of advancement without a reasonably regulated service pension scheme, nor a substantial salary development without significant budgetary surplus resources. After four years of governance and promise, there is not even a timetable for the introduction of a career model. Even the parliamentary commission has no insight into these specifics, even though it promised to inform and involve the committee in advance in its hearing before the appointment of Minister. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to provide information on the timetable for the development and implementation of the career model. When will the Ministry of Interior prepare the draft? When can an administrative settlement take place? Will the plans be presented to the Defence and Police Committee, as promised, and if so, when will they do so? What is the specific target date for the introduction of the career model? How much additional resources will be provided for the salary increase associated with the introduction of a career model? This is an opportunity to demonstrate to the tens of thousands of professional staff under their control that this time they are really serious about introducing a new career model; this is an opportunity to show how much money they have managed to earn from the government to pay law enforcement workers. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, During the first Orbán government, as of January 1, 2002, we introduced a career for professionals, providing housing support, promoting access to housing, providing adequate salaries, progress, and creating a central officer's staff. You guys wiped it out by a feather stroke after you got on the government. In addition, professional firefighters were not paid for the period from 1 May 2004 to 31 December 2007. This is the over-work that, after EU membership, was legally paid to firefighters, and socialist governments refused to pay for it. We also paid for this, which cost 7 billion forints. If you had paid it on time then, you could have saved the budget by HUF 2 billion. So we had to pay for 5 billion forints of public money for your negligence, honourable Member. The collapse of socialist governance before 2010 has also buried public security and professional service as a whole. During your administration, tens of thousands of professionals left personnel at the most active stages of their life, early 40s, due to your bad policy. In addition, after the change of government in 2010, we took over the police with a deficit of 10 billion. Four years ago, in the government program, we promised to restore confidence in the police, restore respect for police work. To this end, the replacement of officers and ensigns has been increased twice in the last cycle, by HUF 12 thousand from 1 January 2012 and by HUF 10 thousand per month from 1 January 2014, honourable Member. We've increased the police force by 3500, we've created new police stations, we've inaugurated new police stations, we've handed over, we've built, last time in Balatonalmadi, before that in Hajdúnánás. Three constructions are still under way. Now, as promised, we're working on a career model. We want to provide a career for professional staff that is attractive, predictable and which directs and keeps professional staff there. The definition of the objectives and directions of the new programme requires a very broad process of social and professional consultation conducted by the Ministry of Interior. [[15.20]] In this context, in consultation with the advocacy organisations, professional chambers, law enforcement and administrative organisations, the expectations of the introduction of a new public service career model will be assessed in order to reflect as much as possible the widest possible range of law enforcement and administrative staff; they could express their views in a questionnaire. Mr President, this questionnaire has been evaluated. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What is the result?]] Policy and expert discussions have started and are ongoing. Impact assessments are ongoing in order to create the budgetary resources necessary for the introduction of a career model. We will provide information on the exact need for resources following the adoption of government measures and the establishment of a concept that can be considered final. Our basic objective is to ensure that certain legislative provisions concerning the new careers enter into force as soon as possible. Honourable Congressman, If you really care about the police and police career within the public service career, please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-42	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I really don't understand what that was all about. He was able to give two specific numbers here, this 2002 and 2004; it was at least a number, it was a fact and it is true. I asked the following questions. When will the new career model be introduced? How much money did you get out of the budget for this? When will the Parliamentary Committee receive these materials? You haven't answered any of them. I could say that your answer to me meant that you wouldn't be a new career model in this cycle. Of course, neither this nor its specific response can be accepted. Allow me, because from 2004 you mentioned firefighters: there is indeed a responsibility for the government at the time, but unlike you, I think that the five billion forints went to the right place for firefighters, and it was not a waste of money, as you said. Your reply cannot be accepted in this respect, and I am very sorry [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That again he could not say anything comforting to these tens of thousands of people.
u2014-10-20-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 96 votes in favour, 40 against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. When will the money that taxpayers intended for it be managed? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2014-10-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, It is profoundly outrageous to hear that citizens' personal income taxes have been transferred to other expenses without asking the offerers. Here in the House walls, we have talked more than once about increasing citizens' confidence in the 1 percent offerings, so that more people take this not only gestureal step, as the amount also shows that it is more than a billion forints, so these payments could be very helpful for a targeted programme. I can only congratulate you, you've ruined your trust for years again. Because of the lack of traceability, many have not offered up 1 percent, and now it turns out that the state itself is fooling them, the state itself is abusing their trust. As a result of a judicial decision, it is now clear that the Ministry has lived up to two thirds of the HUF 1.1 billion in operating expenses and has transferred one third of the remaining one. Did the court-ordered report tell you that? Was this report even necessary because you were sneaking and did not admit to the first questions about what you had spent this amount instead of extermination? That you spent this money on, among other things, severance payments, cookies, conferences. How does the government feel about going against the good will of 177 thousand people? Why do you look down on those who put you in power, by the way? By the way, have you also committed a violation of the law by failing to report the method of spending the money in the closing act? Obviously, isn't it a coincidence? But the Ministry of Rural Development not only violated the law, but also its own regulations, a whole series of these regulations. It hasn't turned out to be intentional, accomplice or omission, but the IRS hasn't checked this spending yet. Of course, I made an immediate complaint about embezzlement, which is a particularly high financial disadvantage, and I do not think it was necessarily my job as an opposition representative to solve this matter or to start the resolution of this matter. I would just like to say that a small amount of three years can also be given to those who do not or do not comply with the required accounting, accounting or information obligations, so I think that this is a serious issue and it would be worth clarifying here within the walls of Parliament. A few questions that I expect immediate and frank answers from the Secretary of State. When is it expected that these tax forints will be replaced, and they will indeed be committed to the exterminating of ragweeds that citizens have intended? How do you try to restore this shaken trust? When does the Kehi test start? 'Cause I guess in a normal country, you're gonna have to follow a Kehi test. Most importantly, who bears immediate political responsibility? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With due respect, there was some difference in what you said in relation to your written interpellation, and in your written interpellation you have mixed several numbers, events and amounts, so allow me to inform you of the facts. The action plan against ragweed was adopted by the Government on 6 July 2012. The action plan shall include the objectives of the control of raggrass and the tasks and responsibilities to be carried out; the wallets concerned shall draw up an annual report on the implementation of the tasks, on the basis of which a government report shall be drawn up. The main direction of public engagement against ragweed is prevention, prevention communication, in cooperation with the relevant social organisations. As a result of the measures taken so far, measured data decreased by 20.5 per cent in 2011 compared to the highest pollen concentration in 2010, by 48 per cent in 2012 and by 63,4 per cent in 2013. According to the current state of play, more than 3.5 million hectares of agricultural land have been checked, the plant protection penalty imposed exceeds HUF 50 million, and I can report the final data when the checks are completed. Dear Parliament, During the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-governments, between 2006 and 2009, he received direct and indirect HUF 3.5 billion for the control of ragweed. On the other hand, during the current period of government, between 2011 and 2014, the amount spent on deflecting ragweed is about 52 billion HUF, which is 14 times the previous amount. It can therefore be concluded that we are spending more money, much more money, directly and indirectly in the current government. The government is constantly paying particular attention to reducing the concentration of raggrass pollen, in particular in public employment programmes, where weed removal and mulching are directly and indirectly involved. Dear Parliament, I would also like to point out that in 2014, after the planned three-time mow, the fourth rate was also imposed due to the strong ragweed infection. At the four stages, 13 536 hectares of ragweed were removed with the involvement of 70 662 people. It is not possible to express this human resource and the work invested in it in money. In addition to the continuous social approach, strengthening the administrative procedure and improving the efficiency of the public administration system is also an important objective. I can assure you that the government will continue to do everything in its power to reduce Hungary's infection with ragweed, thereby improving the quality of life of people with allergic and asthma. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.30]]
u2014-10-20-48	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept the answer because no word has been said about my question; let alone as an answer, but we have not even been around the subject. Thank you very much for telling me what the government has done to clean up the rags, and also that it was more than we could live under socialist governments, but there was not a single word about what happened to this 1.1 billion forints that taxpayers had? I'm going to say this once again - they're going to kill us, and you've spent us on something completely different. You didn't answer that question, nor did you answer who would assume political responsibility in this matter. I believe that Minister Fazekas's responsibility cannot be avoided, since he was the one who was driving the wallet at the time, as he is currently responsible for professional management. So, of course? Like I said? I cannot accept your answer, and I find it amazing that we cannot get an answer to such a simple question in Parliament today. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply to the interpellation. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes in favour, not without a vote and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, have submitted an interview to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2014-10-20-51	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Orbán government is constantly talking about Hungarian interests and the stagnation of multinationals, while it is an enthusiastic supporter of TTIP, the world's most comprehensive free trade agreement. The exact content of TTIP is not known, because it is prepared by the representatives of the European Commission and the US with the total exclusion of the public, but with the direct participation of the largest multinational companies and corporate lobbying groups. However, it is due to the information that has been leaked that, for example, one of the very important objectives for US negotiators is to lift strict European GMO legislation and to abolish mandatory labelling of food and feed containing the genetically engineered ingredient. Furthermore, it is due to the fact that the Convention would relax on restrictions on the use of plant protection products. May of this year? According to confirmed press information? Among other things, the European authorisation for meat from chickens disinfected with chlorine and peroxyic acid, cattle fed with non-therapeutic antibiotics, was discussed in order for Europe to take over more relaxed American standards here. According to the LMP, the Hungarian Government cannot assist in a free trade agreement that undermines existing European environmental and health and labour rights guarantees, but it cannot be accepted because of the total lack of transparency. According to the declarations made so far, the Hungarian government supports the convention in general, due to the expected economic growth, while according to the impact assessment ordered by the government from Corvinus University, it is expected to increase between 0.3 and 0.5 percent of GDP from the convention, and it will also largely fall on international players in industry and trade. The opinion of the LMP is clear: in our view, the preservation of the Hungarian food market, the existing guarantees on food safety, environmental protection and labour law is in the national interest, not free trade. We ask the representatives of the government whether they can mention a Hungarian interest that justifies putting all of this at risk for the further release of world trade which has already been too released.
u2014-10-20-52	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Magyar Levente, who responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-53	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I would like to answer briefly and succinctly the question whether free trade is of Hungarian interest, then I would say that it is absolutely and entirely Hungarian in the event that it takes into account and promotes the interests of the Hungarian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With all the power of the government, he's trying to do this, but now let's look at the numbers. The European Union is the world's largest economic operator, and together with the US, it accounts for almost half of the world's gross domestic product, almost a third of world trade. EU-US trade in goods and services exceeds EUR 2 billion per day. According to 2013 figures, the EU's annual trade surplus against the US is over EUR 92 billion, of which EUR 5.6 billion comes from agriculture. It should be noted that there is a significant and growing Hungarian activity in the Hungarian-US trade, which was more than 41 percent this year in the first month of the year. In the light of these facts, at least we consider the concern that the US would benefit mainly from the agreement being negotiated. The 0.3 per cent increase in European GDP, estimated by researchers and based on you, is worth mentioning that this is not a one-off growth surplus but an annual growth surplus. I would like to note that the preliminary impact assessment carried out by the Hungarian Government in 2013? up to 0.5 per cent of annual GDP growth? in bilateral trade between Hungary and America, it predicts a 15-20 percent increase in exports and 20-30 thousand jobs in the medium term. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We do not consider it fortunate that your interpellation is trying to present presumptions, fears, alleged American intentions as if they had already been agreed, and this is what you wish to hold accountable to the government, and you are doing so by saying that there is nothing to know about the negotiation process. In your opinion, the TTIP is not a wish show, and it cannot be selected from a menu. What's the matter with you? That's what I'm quoting. This is a mistake, because international trade negotiations start with the parties choosing and expressing their wishes for content, what they want to see on the common menu and what they do not. However, I am pleased to see that the LMP also shares the Hungarian Government's efforts to ensure that the free trade agreement is in full compliance with Hungarian interests. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission? according to the Hungarian government's request? Notes that EU and national legislation to protect human life and health, animal health and animal welfare and the environment, food safety and the interests of consumers should not be the subject of a deal; the free trade agreement should not lead to their relaxation. It is not, therefore, that the purpose or outcome of the Convention could be to give up the European or Hungarian regulatory acquis and permissions which you mistakenly predicted. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can assure you that with active action, the Hungarian Government will be ready and able to represent the Hungarian economic and social interests and sensitivities effectively throughout the negotiations, and to preserve the necessary national regulatory space to achieve public policy objectives. The final guarantee is that the conclusion of an agreement that is expected to require long negotiations will require the consent of the Hungarian Government and the ratification of the Hungarian Parliament, and this can only be done in the event of an agreement with sufficient content. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-55	No. Dear Secretary of State, We hope that you are aware that there is a treaty under preparation that if we sign and then realize that it is not worth it that it has serious negative economic consequences for the Hungarian economy, there is no exit from it, because according to current ideas, if a country finds out that it is not good to be in it and wants to quit, it can only get out if all the signatory countries agree. Who would think that if some countries here had a serious advantage, they would let Hungary out of this convention? According to LMP, we can't take that risk at the expense of society. We can't accept your answer.
u2014-10-20-56	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament, do you accept? Is that what it is? Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The IMF also acknowledges that it works with the title of the Hungarian model. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor. [[15.40]]
u2014-10-20-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Surely you and the Members in this House will remember the times, and I would like to relive the period between 2002 and 2010, when socialist governments led Hungarian economic policy, when economic policy was the only miracle weapon, a system of austerity. For a long time, it was natural that if the banks were talking about an increase in gas or electricity prices, or if they were charging interest unfairly, then the pro-government representatives would just raise their hands and say that they could not intervene in market mechanisms. While Hungarian companies and citizens have been taxed indefinitely, businesses have ceased to exist and jobs have fallen. The Orbán government broke up with this economic policy in 2010, when it began to build a new Hungarian economic policy model. The government of national cooperation was the first in Europe to tax banks in the form of public burdens. This meant not only a symbolic amount, but also a substantial contribution to the Hungarian budget. Let us recall, ladies and gentlemen, that after the introduction of the bank tax, the Hungarian government was under enormous pressure both from Europe and from the country. Now, interestingly, this model has been taken over in several countries in Europe and the bank tax has been introduced there in the spirit of public burdens. The new model included the sectoral special taxes that energy companies, telecommunications companies and retail companies had to pay to make their share of the public burden. Meanwhile, taxation of small and medium-sized enterprises has decreased significantly and we have developed the lowest level of corporate tax in Europe. An important element of the new model is the expansion of employment and the possibility for so-called aid workers to work in the competitive sector over time. The unconventional steps of the Hungarian model have brought the results that we expected. We managed to stop and reduce the increase in government debt, repay the IMF loan taken out by the Gyurcsány government to the last penny, and the country was removed from the excessive deficit budgetary procedure in 2013 after nine years. Meanwhile, employment has expanded and the transformation of large distribution systems has started. I stress that the government did not create this money with the additional burden on the people of wages and salaries. As a result, we became the leading learners of Europe. The IMF is now forced to acknowledge that, a few years ago, the Hungarian government required austerity, that, yes, the Hungarian economic model is operational, as the GDP growth projected to be 2 percent this year has been modified to 3 percent. In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State what we can expect in the future, how the Hungarian economic model will work over the coming years. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you rightly pointed out, the government that took office in 2010 has taken a radical turn in economic policy, we have broken off with a policy based on austerity, limiting the country's independence, and we have developed our own economic policy. Let us recall that the problems of 2010 were so great, because the budget deficit, if there had been no change of government, would have been over 7 percent, the unemployment rate was close to 12 percent, more than 450,000 people had no job, the debt had gone to unprecedented heights, the GPD was over 80 percent, more than 20 000 billion forints. Indeed, the Hungarian model was first subject to a lot of criticism, in many cases it had to be made against very strong domestic and foreign opponents, trusting in its impact. As you have said, the Hungarian economy has indeed become balanced and has entered a sustainable growth path, so that in the second quarter of 2014 the Hungarian economy grew the fastest in the European Union, by around 3.9 percent. But we also have results in improving the external balance. It is also a sure sign of confidence in our economic policy that investments have increased above 20 per cent in the first and second quarter of 2014. Country risk indicators have decreased and yield levels have decreased, which has allowed public finances to be financed from the market. It is true, as you said, that the results of our economic policy are recognised not only by the market or the European Union, but now by the IMF itself, because according to the new study, gross domestic product, the growth of domestic product measured in real terms of GDP in 2014 will be 2.8 percent in 2014 and 2.3 percent in 2015. I'd like to point out that you've been expecting an increase of 2 percent and 1.7 percent. But domestic demand is the same. They predict an increase of 3.8 this year, 2.5 percent next year, more than 2 percent. Export growth is also dynamic, since it will be 6.3 percent and 5.3 percent this year and in the coming years. Here, too, a much lower rate was predicted. They also expect very serious results, significant expansion and improvement in retail consumption. That's what the IMF is saying. But it has to be said that other external actors, independent of Hungary, also have a positive assessment of Hungary's performance. For example, London analysts say that if the Hungarian economic policy processes continue in this way, Hungary should be classified next year in the summer of 2015. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government has only one thing ahead of it in terms of economic policy: the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families should have a better position. This can be achieved by economic growth and further job creation. These objectives are at the heart of our economic policy and, as has been the case, we will continue to meet them in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! I am pleased that the Secretary of State was able to provide a series of data that reassures the entire Hungarian society that the sustainable development of the Hungarian economy will continue to show a similar level. Allow me, Mr Secretary of State, and allow me, fellow Members, to confirm and support with just three brief figures what the Secretary of State has said. The Secretary of State mentioned that GDP showed a 3.9 percent increase on the basis of the second quarter, with which we are the first among the EU Member States in Europe. I have to say that Finland, Greece and Italy have fallen during the same period, so GDP has fallen with them. In terms of the number of people employed, there has not been such good statistics in the last 20 years. The number of people employed increased by 340 thousand, while in Portugal it decreased by 380 thousand, in Romania by 560 thousand and in Greece by 1 million 371 thousand. So I think we're really on the right track. I accept the Secretary of State's reply and thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-62	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy entitled "World Day of Honored Work." Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2014-10-20-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Association of Hungarian Trade Unions held a protest in front of the Ministry of National Economy about two weeks ago. Meanwhile, Orbán was talking about the world of work in the walls of Parliament. Now I see that Erik Bánki can follow him as well as how the statistics evolve. Yes, Mr. Banki, the statistics are fine. Only statistics and reality are very far apart! You know, trade unions are protesting for a reason, let's say, about how collective agreements prevail in this country, about the creation of a labour code within which collective agreements in the case of public companies cannot be more positive than the statutes of the Labour Code. I think that's not the point of a collective agreement. [[15.50]] Moreover, you do not guarantee the functioning of the collective agreement with regard to civil servants. But I don't just want to deal with the collective agreement about why the unions are protesting. They are also trying to draw their attention, but they are also trying to strengthen their memory, such as the need for employers and the government to keep their word together. The word you gave earlier in order to enforce workers' rights. And do you know why this is important? Simply so that there will be peace of work in this country. So that people can earn a decent income and have a normal livelihood. Well, that's what's been missing in the last four years for a lot of people. Not in the case of ten, not in the case of one hundred thousand people; in the case of millions of people. And of course, I would add that, in addition to memory, I am obviously warned; I am warned that, for example, early retirement, early retirement, or the civil servant's pay table, but we can look at the question of civil servant's salary, how and how it develops. You know, you're taking concessions from people who live their daily lives, whether in a hot factory or in a radiation hazard and in mines and many other types of activity. You know, you don't give the opportunity to those who are replaced by employers who take over the extra burden and pay in advance, which is simply nonsense, unacceptable, incomprehensible, that you're only doing it to ensure that people's safety doesn't exist. I don't understand why you're doing this. We should think about how and how to change this. And all that the trade unions say in this regard, is that if we take it from the opposition side into the walls of Parliament in a draft parliamentary resolution, or we want to bring it into the walls of Parliament, they will reject it from guts. So the real question is, why are you doing all this? Why don't you want the HUF 38 650 frozen civil servant salary fund you run for almost five years to change and grow? Why don't you want collective agreements to serve people's interests normally? Why don't you want the discounts - age discount, age discount? Are they functional? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Answer these questions, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Czomba responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let me start by saying... [[Intercoms from the benches of Fidesz: We can't hear it! Raise the mike. ? A voice from the benches of MSZP:]]
u2014-10-20-66	I need technical assistance for the Secretary of State.
u2014-10-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-10-20-68	One moment, please, Mr. Secretary, right away. It'll be more perfect with another microphone. Reset time, please. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by saying that if only the statistics had improved, Fidesz-KDNP would not be sitting here two thirds after 2014. Since our entry into government, our main goal has been to provide decent work, valuable salaries and pensions for Hungarian people. Thanks to the success of our economic policy, we can now say that today more people have jobs in Hungary than ever in 22 years. We also perform better in preserving the value of wages and pensions than before, and as other European countries generally do. The pension system is sustainable and stable, compared to the period before 2010 when 3 million people's pensions were at risk. Hungary is one of the few countries where the value of pensions and salaries has been preserved and even increased in recent years, reducing the burden on families and reducing unemployment to the greatest extent in Europe. Honourable Congressman, Before I answer your specific questions, allow me to correct your claim. The fact is that a large number of civil servants have collective agreements. In fact, last year it was also achieved that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre and the majority of the trade unions involved in public education also concluded a collective agreement. This affects some 130,000 civil servants. So what the former socialist governments had only dreamed of, we did. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: Health contribution!]] As regards the system of early retirement, we naturally consider it important to resolve the situation of the workers concerned. This is supported, for example, by the fact that at the beginning of the year we presented a proposal to the Parliament which provides an extra discount for miners working in a job with increased stress. As a result, they can make better use of early retirement than the general rules. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the current regulation reflects a vision and technical standard of several decades ago. The system to which you insist is not intended to protect the health of workers, but is intended to compensate for the harm or deterioration suffered by workers with the possibility of a previous withdrawal. An evaluation of the trade union proposals is currently under way. We consider age-related issues to be of unchangeable importance, but this will only be decided after negotiations. Let's look at the facts about the alleged leasing of the public sector. In fact, with the exception of the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, you did not increase wages in any sector of the public sector in 2010 or even reduce wages in 2010 by taking the 13th month wage. On the other hand, as soon as we managed to reduce the budget deficit, we also took a number of measures to improve the income situation of public sector employees in addition to the unchanged salary funds and the civil servant pay table. In the health sector, at two paces? In 12th and 13th? We have made a significant increase in salaries. Teachers also received an outstanding increase in 13, which will continue for four years until 2017. From 2014 onwards, workers in the social sector also received a replacement wage. In addition to these hundreds of thousands of salary increases, are there a number of measures? minimum wage, guaranteed minimum wage annual increase, introduction of family discount, reduction of overhead, reduction of the burden on foreign exchange lenders? improved the income situation of public sector workers. The government has therefore not focused on raising wages for its own officials, as Congressman would like to say. Step by step, we want to move forward by raising wages, as has the ability of the economy to do [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and the balance of the budget will allow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-71	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Obviously not, because there's a lot of nonsense going on. People can be fooled periodically. On the other hand, vulnerability is growing in Hungary. If you look at wages alone, on average, earners below average, minimum wage earners, public workers get less money than they did before. As an example, this two-thirds government has taken one third of their money's purchasing power. They're moving forward with denied, distorted, lied statistics. This, of course, is better than reality, obviously. [[Noise.]] Between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, the scissors open. It was big in 2010 too, then it was 17-18 thousand forints more than the net of the minimum wage per person. Now it's 36 thousand forints more for the public. Do you know what this means, Mr. Secretary? That they took 18,000 forints from these people. In the meantime, 4.5 million people live below the minimum living, 770 thousand children in poverty. What else can I say? Do you need more statistics for that? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Wake up! Do what you're supposed to do. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 103 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior:. The insufficient operation of the traffic police has led to a dangerous situation in life and accident? It's an address. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2014-10-20-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Recently, the tragic death at the Népliget Tennis Academy was devastating not only for sportsmen, but also for the whole public. However, it was even more outrageous to read the statements that wanted to make the confrontations and revelations about the case look like a minor political attack. Because that's not what this is about. More about the extent to which the traffic police under your responsibility, for example, were at the height of the situation when they allowed a sports establishment with a very large base to be surrounded by various physical roadblocks that could not be approached by an ambulance. Although the operator has, in the framework of dozens of written letters, drawn the attention of those responsible for years to the untenable nature of the situation, the danger of an accident, the impossibility of saving it, you have not moved the staff of your ears. [[16.00]] Now that the emergency has led to a fatal tragedy, István György, the government commissioner of Budapest's capital city, Budapest's former deputy mayor responsible for the operation of Budapest's city, will take care of the matter in an open letter with only one thing:. The ominous concrete elements protected the Népliget and those wishing to rest in Népliget, not politicians. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Denial is more of a confession. It is widely known that physical obstacles have been created in the interest of the neighbouring Taraliget residence park, so it is not about those who want to rest in Népliget, but it is probably about those who want to rest in Népliget. About the housing park, mostly the politicians of it. The properties of each property, if we look at it, show that it is right here that Róbert Kovács, the mayor of Fideszes Kőbánya, and the partner of István György, but still the Középvárosi Közter-szolgáltató Zrt. His economic director, István Vida. Do I think it's an impressive list of things that make me sick to my stomach? And I think I'm not alone in this? a reference to those who wish to rest in Népliget. Apart from all of this, I ask you, if it were really intended to preserve the Népliget as a green area and to exclude vehicle traffic to this end, would it not have been more appropriate, for example, to use a barrier instead of a hermetic closure with concrete elements, from a traffic police point of view. Why is the west side of Népliget not protected in the same way as the residential area? Don't motor traffic there bother those who want to relax? How many closed areas, which are currently seriously hazardous to accidents, that are unacceptable from a traffic police point of view? Has an investigation been carried out in relation to the specific case in order to establish the identity of the persons responsible for the failure of the traffic police and, if not, is it expected to be fully investigated? It's not that there's a campaign or no campaign, the campaign's over, a man's dead. [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] We would like to know the reasons, and we would like to know your answer to that. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-74	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Márius Révész intervened. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to inform you and the public, the Honourable Parliament, that the case is being prosecuted, and therefore I cannot provide you with any details about it. The fact that an area is accessible or not falls outside the police jurisdiction. I firmly state that the police and the disaster management authority have fully fulfilled the tasks assigned to them by the legislation, and therefore neither body is responsible. In the specific case, the Central Pest Disaster Protection Service of the Metropolitan Disaster Management Directorate issued a call and communication to the authorities three times after it was found that the sport centre facility in Népliget was not accessible by means of a fire engine. The Authority has provided in all three official notices and obligations that, without delay after receipt of the order, concrete-laying elements and artificial stone flowerware installed on Népliget's solid road roads should be relocated to the sports centre facility in order to ensure the migration and operation of the fire department by means of a road suitable for the non-regular transport and operation of fire-fighting vehicles. The Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office requested information on the measures taken by the disaster management authority, which the Authority also complied with by informing the proceedings and sending the documents. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following the information provided to the prosecutor's office, the authority carried out, in addition to prior notification of the data subjects, a fire-fighting authority inspection, in which it was found that the sports centre was accessible from Vajda Péter Street by means of a fire-fighting vehicle, so the road was interoperable. The prosecution has also been informed of the experience of the audit. Honourable Congressman, On the basis of the facts provided, it can be concluded that both the police and the disaster management authority have fulfilled their duties under the legislation. I ask you to accept my answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-76	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2014-10-20-77	Thank you very much. The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, was that it was about as arrogant an answer as you could hear from Révész Máriusz, as Róbert Kovács says, and I quote what Róbert Kovács said after the incident, he said that the mayor said it was a case created, which came out as the campaign approached. We were talking about a human life, and it wasn't a created case. The fact that you are now saying that you have done everything you can, Mr Secretary of State, for two years by dozens of official letters has brought to the attention of the competent authorities that there is a tragedy at the Folk Grove site, and you have done nothing. Now that the tragedy has actually happened, you continue to try to sweep the case under the rug and say that you have done everything you can. They didn't do it! There was an ambulance and he couldn't get into the area. He went there. Unfortunately, they had to go to the body truck, and they couldn't get into the area. In fact, now you're saying that the other places were allowed to go. It couldn't have been, because it was illegally closed by the owners of Tara residence. So don't say there's no responsibility here. Find those responsible, and find them, and make sure that this case is brought about. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-78	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 103 yes, 37 votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, László Földi, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. The OSH action plan has improved the employment of career beginners, people over the age of 55, long-term job seekers and workers with small children. It's an address. It is for Congressman László Földi to take the floor.
u2014-10-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The main objective of the Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs launched in January 2013 was to protect and preserve jobs in such a way that employers retain their employees and employ new workers through tax incentives. The benefits and opportunities of the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs have helped to promote employment for people under the age of 25 with less than the EU average, those over 55 years of age, unskilled, long-term job seekers and workers with small children. Recent data show that the action plan has fulfilled its expectations. So far, more than 890 000 jobs have been strengthened, in terms of supported groups: 360 thousand mothers over 55 years of age, one in three workers with low education, one in five workers, about 170 thousand under 25 years of age and 40 thousand mothers with small children have been supported. It is important to point out that the introduction of the action plan reduced the burden on employers by HUF 205 billion. As a result of the plan, the economy has become whiter and businesses can declare their incomes more easily. Dear Secretary of State, How has the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs contributed to reducing unemployment and whether further increases in the number of people supported are expected? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-80	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Czomba.
u2014-10-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, Hungary has seen a spectacular improvement in both employment and unemployment since the second half of 2013. We have stepped up from the stage of shame in both areas, and I can say that we are far from where we want to be, of course, but if this trend continues, then our bloody hopes, both in employment and in unemployment, have a realistic chance not only to have hope but also to achieve it. As far as the job protection action plan is concerned, this action was not created by accident, since it is not just a general problem. In Hungary, unemployment and low employment, there are huge territorial differences between parts of the country and, on the other hand, the employment rate of highly qualified young people or older people is much better than that of unskilled people, and the greatest danger is that young people, especially young people, are under 25 years old;, those over 55 years of age before retirement age - because if they lose their jobs there, it is almost certain that they will not have a chance of relocating? And the untrained are the ones who are most at risk. [[16.10]] The action plan speaks of nothing but the protection of these people, in quotes. So, on the one hand, those who are currently working can use it after. No insignificant amount, by the way, because this is because if you add up the half socho discount, this is an amount of around 700-750 thousand forints per three years, and we do not dictate to the employer what you spend this amount on. So we make it interesting in Hungarian that, if there is one downsizing, these people should not think about it, because their location would be much more difficult. But in addition to protection, there is another very important leg of this, the long-term unemployed, mothers returning from the child and young people starting the career, because there is a 2 plus 1 year discount, for 2 years virtually free of contributions, for the third year half socho. Also, if I add this up, 840-850 thousand forints/person for the three years, so that only one application did not have to be submitted, but the employer can actually hold back this amount as an automatic. So I think we can quantify, definitely not tell how much impact the action plan has had, but that it has had a very significant impact, I'm quite sure of that. The reason why we cannot say this is because the government has also operated a number of other employment policy instruments, such as, for young people, the first job guarantee scheme, where 16 000 people are still working in the framework of it, 20,000 people have worked in student work this summer, we have helped young people become entrepreneurs more than 1600 young people, and I could also list the measures that we have taken in the past period. So we would like to, but not only do we want to, but we will also continue to benefit from the job protection action plan. What is more, we are also looking at the possibility of expanding it, whether it is necessary and justified to expand it in order to provide more security to more people in the coming years. Thank you very much. Please accept my reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-83	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will accept your answer, of course. Let me mention that Cegléd's neighborhood, where I came from, had an unemployment rate of around 14-15 percent, and today it is now around 8 percent. This 6-7 percent reduction in unemployment in that area was a huge scale. At the same time, there are a lot of unskilled workers, and I am very confident that if the new vocational training system is launched, there will be serious professionals coming out of schools, and perhaps the shortage of professionals in the metal industry, for example, today, in the iron industry, will be able to make up for it. Overall, I am very pleased that thousands of people in Cegléd have found work in the new action plan, and I trust that this region will continue to do so in this respect. Thank you, I accept your answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2014-10-20-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, In recent days, it has been found that KSH does not disclose poverty figures at the usual time. However, the statistical office of the Union has already published the preliminary data which it is likely to receive from the Hungarian Statistical Office. According to Eurostat, the number of people living in poverty and exclusion increased by 100,000 by 2013, and a third of Hungarians did not have 65,000 forints per month. The questions about the delay in the KSH, the reason why it does not publish poverty data before the elections, have been answered by Szilárd Németh: I think this is not a real number, I live here in this world, and we are talking about absolutely not real numbers. The Hungarian people can see with their own eyes the situation of families today and the deprivation of children, while some people are gaining inexplicable wealth. Even though they keep secrets, other domestic institutions and international research will help people to see clearly. We know from Tárki, UNICEF and Gallup that almost half of families with children have been unable to buy the necessary food for themselves and their families in the last year. We know from the OECD that poverty has increased despite the decline in social spending. According to the OECD survey, Hungary was the toughest at cutting social expenditure, between 2009 and 13 the Cabinet reduced these budget expenditures by 10 percent compared to GDP, while countries where the economy has not yet recovered have rather increased them. One of the latest reports also gives a devastating picture of the country. Regarding Hungary, it has been highlighted that worryingly negative trends are taking place. 43 percent of children and minors are at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and one in three children lives in severe material deprivation. According to the news, at a government meeting last week, the reform of the social care system was discussed, according to the press, pro-government politicians declared that Viktor Orbán's aim was to convert state transfers and reduce social expenditure. For this reason, I ask Minister: did the government know that KSH did not intend to display poverty data at the usual time? Do you think Eurostat data is real? Do I know that Eurostat is receiving data from KSH? What do you intend to do to stop poverty in Hungary and to eradicate child poverty at an unbearable rate? Please do not kid us that the public work programme and the reduction of social expenditure will be the solution to this. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2014-10-20-86	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. You have the floor, Minister.
u2014-10-20-87	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her question, which, I believe, can be divided into two parts. In one part, the Member is asking about a specific case relating to the practice of the Central Statistical Office, and with its question, she has no less presumption than that the Central Statistical Office did not want to disclose or hide data either before the elections, after the parliamentary elections or before the municipal elections. I would like to strongly disprove this as a member of the government who bears responsibility for the Central Statistical Office. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Also!]] ? You're right, you're right. As far as you may know, fellow Members, I would not be a fan of it at all, nor would I support it if such an effort were to be made anywhere, but I must confess that I have never experienced it at the Central Statistical Office in order for anyone to conceal any data or information or any analysis. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: Ah, no!]] to solve, sabotage or negligate a problem at all. If I may, I would like to begin by saying that, first of all, all the materials you requested are freely accessible to all in Europe and Hungary in December 2013 by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. If KSH had wanted to hide the data, it would not have sent it to the European information system, so I would have to reject these few comments by representing and supervising KSH, or at least bearing the responsibility of the government. Although I know that you are not essentially driven by this intention to question the data of the HCSO, you wanted to draw attention to the spread of poverty and its difficulties in the second part of what you have to say. It is precisely because, after three elections, it is time for everyone to calm down, precisely so that the Parliament, the executive authority and the legislature can see clearly, all those to whom the voters have entrusted Hungary have a particular interest in seeing clearly on statistical matters. Will there be four investigations that the Central Statistical Office brings together with the knowledge and support of the government and deepens research into poverty? These are 20 000 samples, not on the 1500 or 1000 samples of some charities, but on a 20 000 sample - : an international comparison of social exclusion, consumption patterns, income conditions, and a number of other data and information capable of researching, analysing, interpreting and exploring poverty. Moreover, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office does this in its entirety in accordance with European standards and standards and even in a manner agreed with European statisticians. So the fact that these four studies will be published at the same time in November, in an agreed form with the European Statistical Office, they know exactly what work we are doing. Our aim is therefore not to circumvent the publicity of data, we want data security to which real social policy can be applied and built. I will not take this opportunity to outline the essence of the Socialist's eight-year-old social policy, although I would like it and I would like it. [[16.20]] I'd say we're the ones who have to deal with the consequences. I would like to tell you that the most important objective of 2015 is to constantly try to help socially disadvantaged people, such as those with foreign exchange credit or those with children. Indeed, when the government listened to the competent State Secretary in connection with the budget debate, the most important focus was on how and how we can help the most disadvantaged, which we will do in the next period. The budget of 15 will include a number of positive initiatives, which will create work, create opportunities, provide free food for children in the framework of education, and a number of social tensions, not a permanent solution, but a solution to social problems, and open up a social opportunity, an opportunity for catching up and integration, which will not close the possibility of getting into the middle class for the poorest. I ask for your appreciation for my answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-88	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-89	I cannot accept it, and, Minister, I would like to quote Prime Minister, a little more humble, humbler, if I may. I would quote from this research that the government has supported, and which has now seen the light of day, that the analysis of legislation by researchers has made clear that most of the state's measures, despite the texts that have been said, prevent the reduction of social inequalities, poverty and exclusion, and the enforcement of individual rights in almost all cases. I would like to quote one more sentence: since the crisis, income inequalities have increased, the proportion of people living in poverty has increased by 14 percent in the whole population and 20 percent among children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I think that these numbers cannot be lied, and again I would like to quote Prime Minister, to expect more modesty from the members of the government.
u2014-10-20-90	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 110 votes in favour, 45 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, It's 16 hours 23 minutes, we're at the end of the interpellations. It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. Decisions will take place after the negotiations and later. The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to set up an ad hoc committee for parliamentary oversight of the preparation and implementation of a new nuclear power plant block at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant site H/283. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have heard a great deal about the public, especially from pro-government representatives in the United States and from US officials, that certain information is not being made public, so you are calling this initiative, that some individuals have been banned from entering the United States, and you cannot take this seriously, and you consider it unfounded. In fact, one of your congressmen, your group leader on a TV show? As it was said here today? He said that as long as there's no information, he couldn't think of anything other than that it was a joke, it's hard to take this initiative seriously. Is the Paks Nuclear Power Plant here? Going back to that statement? I can tell you that it's a bit of a joke, just like it's a joke that you didn't fully inform the public about the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the construction of new power plant blocks, because a secret pact, a secret deal was made in Moscow. You have suspended the 2009 parliamentary resolution, which contained a consensus, which was about whether both the process of preparation and the entire investment will be carried out in public with the full public involvement, and also to involve civil society organisations who can express their views in this, or refer to impact studies that have not been published, and even on the basis of a court ruling, these impact assessments do not exist. In comparison to this, our motion, our bill, is that, since the preparation, the decision has been made, the public has been excluded, at least in the implementation of the investment, to ensure that a committee is set up on a case-by-case basis. This proposal for a decision has been formulated in a way that is acceptable to you, and this committee should monitor and follow the process of expanding the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and building new power plant blocks. The Committee's tasks have been defined in this proposal for a decision as follows: follow up legal, technical, economic analyses, licensing, safety, environmental, waste management and storage of the preparation. The Commission will examine the implementation of the decisions on the preparation of the construction of new nuclear power stations, the financing framework for the preparation of the construction of the new nuclear power station block, and monitor its compliance. The Committee will examine whether the conditions for regional development and training will be fulfilled during the investment to meet the 40 percent Hungarian supplier and contractor participation rate promised in government communication. Investigate the supplier tender, monitor the participation of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, promote social acceptance and communication, and keep in touch with the authorities and the relevant civil, advocacy and professional organisations. So that's what this committee is supposed to do. As I have already said, we have put it in a way that is acceptable to you. If the public has already been demanded of the United States of America, then we also demand publicity in relation to the Paks Nuclear Power Plant investment. I ask you to support this initiative and to accept our proposal for a parliamentary decision, to set up this ad hoc committee and to monitor the entire investment process from laying down the funds to putting it into service, if this investment is made. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsuzsanna Szelényi, an independent Member, who indicated in writing his intention to speak. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-93	Thank you very much. Dear House, I have said before you on several occasions, along with many of you, that the Paks Pact was one of the worst decisions of Viktor Orbán's governance. Even at the moment of its creation, it was clear that it was a historic mistake, expensive, and determined the fate of Hungary for decades. The Paks Pact would not have been born if the issue of Hungary's energy supply had been discussed by the professional public and political authorities in the light of these environmental tests and electricity market forecasts. None of this happened, so the Paks Pact is all about Putin wanting to export a nuclear power plant to Europe, and the Fidesz government is assisting. This decision is expensive, this decision is harmful. The thing is, at the moment, this agreement is in place, but we don't really know anything about it, so-called Paks blindness. This disease is very dangerous because we don't see where it leads, where it's headed, someone's leading us by our noses. If this particular ad hoc committee stands up, perhaps some can be alleviated by the Paks blindness, and therefore, on behalf of the Group of the Joint-PM, we are in any case in favour of setting it up. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-94	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame. [[16.30]]
u2014-10-20-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The LMP supports the initiative of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, because we can support any initiative that calls for clarity in relation to the scandalous expansion of Paks. The LMP continues to believe that this is a completely flawed enlargement. We already know the concept, but we don't know the plans, just like no one else in this country knows. This includes the Orbán-Putin pact, which was signed on 14 January, and the credit agreement itself. Both have been voted in Parliament with a shameless act. To this day, I'm going through lawsuits to find out if you have a concept beyond the idea of how to spend hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money, but the whole project is completely opaque. We know that the whole concept of enlargement was transferred from MVM to János Lázár last week. It's obviously the result of the government's internal struggles with Simicska. However, it is completely opaque to know exactly who is disposing what decisions. Do we also know that it is Attila Aszódi who, as government commissioner, is celebrating implementation agreements with his 40-member staff? I understand you're negotiating directly with Russia? This means that the game goes behind the scenes on three issues in which the Hungarian Parliament should have a decisive word in every respect. One of them is, what's this turnkey nuclear power plant gonna look like? You want me to quote the government attorney on the negotiations? The second is the question of operation and the third is the fate of fuel, as is the future of supply and spent fuel management. I think that the most fundamental thing is that all three implementation agreements, since they do not regulate detail issues, are brought here to the Hungarian Parliament, so that we can discuss them in substance. The second is that in the light of this scandal, it would be worth reviewing the Orbán-Putin pact once and for all. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-96	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, This proposal for a resolution can be supported by the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, also because we had a similar initiative at the end of the previous term, and then we spoke on several occasions in this term about the need for a case-by-case committee to supervise the entire investment, since its financial implications are quite large and it is quite natural for a parliamentary ad hoc committee to stand up for such an investment. We also told you in 2010, when Jobbik came to Parliament, that we would assess all proposals on the basis of what is the content of it, not on the basis of who submitted it. On this basis, this proposal is eligible for us. Although it should be noted, we found it rather strange that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party is submitting a proposal for a decision to monitor the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to award the chair of the ad hoc committee to the governing party or to give the cabbage to the goat on the basis of this proposal for a resolution. In any case, we would like to change that if the series of articles were to be included and if this proposal for a resolution was to be put on the agenda in Parliament. So to sum up, I can say that we will support it in the vote, because I think that Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament, as the main representative body of the people, is responsible for monitoring and monitoring an investment affecting Hungary's energy strategy and the future of Hungary in this way until the last screw is pulled or the test run is launched. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-98	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if there's anyone else from the factions who'd like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, who indicated that he wanted to respond to what was said in the debate. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you for the support of the factions. Since we have not heard this from Fidesz, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you often refer to election results. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Pakson 78:22 percent did not win your candidates. This also shows that on certain issues it would be better to be honest and straighter. [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Also, if you do not want Paks Nuclear Power Plant investment to be a private matter for the Fidesz Economic Lunar Station, please vote in favour of this proposal and stand up, let the ad hoc committee which oversees the Paks Nuclear Power Plant investment, so that it does not end with some people being banned from the United States. Thank you very much. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/1241 which initiated the extraordinary control of the management of the Hungarian National Bank. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, on behalf of the authors, in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few months ago, the new management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank started a real rampage. While it is primarily his job to preserve the value of the forint, it turns out that he cannot or will not perform this task, the forint is much weaker than it was years ago, and instead of performing this basic task, he started activities that are not the responsibility of the current central bank. In addition, according to the Hungarian National Bank Act, the Hungarian National Bank can use the fines received for social responsibility, but that is not the case with the Hungarian National Bank. We were just rushing our heads! The first outrageous news was that the well-paid and tired leaders of the Hungarian National Bank are entitled to a luxury mansion in order to have a place to rest after the day's work. They didn't feel sorry for the money, and they bought the Tiszaroff castle hostel as part of some kind of real estate activity. But that was not enough, besides many other properties, the point was placed on the i by buying the most expensive office building in Budapest. The purchase of this property took place in scandalous circumstances. Not only is it scandalous, although it is also the price at which the Hungarian National Bank bought this property for how many billion forints, but it is also the subject of a separate scandal that it bought this property much more expensive than the price found on a website. A separate valuer was used for this purpose, which would not have been possible otherwise. It is also scandalous that the contract of sale was concluded by one of the members of the government, namely Mr Trocsányi, Minister of Justice's former law firm, namely, his current law firm. In better places, the minister will leave immediately if one of these comes out. But even that wasn't enough. György Matolcsy decided to teach his specific economic views in Hungary, and he did not regret the separation of HUF 200 billion. This HUF 200 billion is more than one and a half times the annual state support of total Hungarian higher education. This is one-and-a-half times the total support to promote a strange, unaccepted and otherwise tragic economic bouquet in Hungary. The Hungarian National Bank does not intend to answer these questions in any way on the grounds of independence. György Matolcsy here in Parliament at the hour of immediate questioning was given the opportunity to clarify all this, but instead he could only refer to the independence of the central bank. The independence of the central bank does not give anyone an exemption for irresponsible spending of public money. The possible loss of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank is reimbursed by the current budget, so in lucky years the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank should make a profit reserve from its profits, precisely so that in the loss-making years the Hungarian taxpayers do not have to compensate for this. [[16.40]] Instead, the Hungarian National Bank wasted hundreds of billions of forints of public money. We respect independence, but the State Audit Office is entitled to control the management of the Hungarian National Bank. In the annual framework, we consider this study to be insufficient, and we call for a separate investigation. Such an unprecedented waste of money, such a waste of public money requires immediate consideration. It seems that the State Audit Office of Hungary, managed by a Fidesz party politician, did not wish to do so, so we urge the National Assembly in a resolution to call on the State Audit Office to do this work and to find out why public money is being wasted at the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-102	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The group's speeches will now follow, and the independent representatives will speak. First, I give the floor to Zsuzsa Szelényi... [[For signal:]] Madam Congresswoman, you have indicated my monitor, so you do not wish to speak. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-103	Mr President, Dear House, We must say that the MNB's portfolio management is at least unconventional in that we now need to hear from the press about what billions of dollars and what luxury types of investments will be made in this institution. But there is an even bigger problem, a small slice of which is what we have before us, in addition to the fact that we really want to see the fate of the billions and the way in which they are scattered, and to see it very deeply. We therefore support calling on the State Audit Office to investigate in this regard in a decision. But we also need to see that, while prudential supervision and the monetary authority were essentially merged, it can be said that the sum of responsibilities was limited, during the governance of Fidesz-KDNP, every year they missed the opportunity to bring the reports on the activities of the Hungarian National Bank to the plenary and to discuss them. So we are in a particular situation where the Hungarian Parliament and its representatives, the two-thirds majority, at the moment the governing parties do not want to control the institution whose independence cannot be an end in itself. The successful functioning of the national economy is also a tool, and it is a part of this instrument that we are talking about. So the Hungarian Parliament must also exercise control powers. Each year, the MNB's reports on its activities must be presented to Parliament; not only in order to be in possession of the necessary information, but also in order, where appropriate, to have some influence on the ability of such an independent institution to function in the interests of the national economy and in a somewhat controlled manner. Therefore Jobbik strongly supports that yes, the State Audit Office should also investigate, but here, before Parliament, every year, what the Hungarian National Bank is doing, and what it is not doing. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-104	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Róbert Sallai Benedek, the LMP Group, has submitted a speech. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The LMP discussed this motion and supported the MSZP proposal. We consider the attitude of the central bank to be unacceptable, which considers that the spending of the central bank does not constitute public money. It is unacceptable that, while the government is constantly talking about its wise and responsible management, its central bank spends irresponsiblely, without any control, without the supervision and control of Parliament, making luxury and unnecessary investments that do not serve the interests of the country. Consequently, the LMP considers it a minimum that Kehi not only investigate innocent civilians or independent civilians, but also include the fullest possible monitoring of the activities of the Central Bank. For as long as in various places the government carries out significant checks due to a few million-dollar spending, billions of dollars spent at the central bank were used completely anti-nationally, not respecting the minimum requirements for the use of public funds. We therefore support the inclusion in the series of articles and ask Parliament to support it in a similar way. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2014-10-20-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-107	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We have also tried to argue before the Economic Committee to support this proposal. After all, there is no control of any institution that is now slowly independent of itself and of the government. It has not been said today, but I think it is important information that the supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank has not been operational since 5 May. Thus, ownership control, the exercise of ownership rights and the performance of practical and effective control tasks, the functioning of the Management Board and the Director, I do not think there is any control at the moment. That's how matolchysmus is taught. We have already heard how this is going to be taught, we did not think that from the MNB's money, in the schools of the MNB, but we believe that if the government and the state as owners do not want to participate in the control of the Hungarian National Bank, then it is very important that we ourselves propose, through the bodies that we ourselves propose to verify the practicality and effectiveness of the management of the Hungarian National Bank, which we have the opportunity to do. There is no supervisory board, and that is not enough reason that I was informed of at the meeting of the Economic Committee that the president of the Hungarian National Bank might come to the meeting of the Economic Committee. I am very pleased that you will now take part in a parliamentary committee, but I do not think that this can replace the practicality and effectiveness test that the State Audit Office could carry out. As long as this process is not completed, and until we can see clearly in this, and until the Government intends to exercise its rights, we ask the Management Board to suspend the execution of these transactions. Thank you for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Fidesz Group, has asked for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2014-10-20-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to refer back to the thoughts of my fellow cook, because we consider what we have asked of you in the Economic Committee to be a good solution. After hearing György Matolcsy on the basis of the work plan adopted by the Economic Committee on 25 September in November, my proposal would be for all interested parties to come and the members of the Economic Committee to have their answers to each of their questions there. So I suggest that instead of this submission, the Parliament supports this hearing of a certain Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-110	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, who wishes to respond to what has been said within a two-minute timeframe. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-111	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, First of all, I would like to say that a committee hearing is a very different genre than an audit. The Commission's hearing often consists of many questions and many answers, but we know the practice of the pro-government committees that, in most cases, only the rapporteur is able to take the floor, and then one question per faction can be asked, and then the committee meeting is closed. But even if we could discuss it thoroughly within a committee meeting, it would not replace the monitoring activities of specialised and eligible public bodies. The independence of the Hungarian National Bank is guaranteed by the fact that many of these bodies do not exist. The State Audit Office, on the other hand, carries out the examination of the National Bank of Hungary year after year, within a general framework. Our request and our motion are for these waste to be examined by the State Audit Office in a specific target study. This means a wide range of activities and a level of waste that cannot be replaced by a half-day or even full-day committee meeting. At most, political conclusions should be drawn there, but there is also likely to be a need to establish responsibility, legal responsibility. This is what we expect of the State Audit Office to order such an investigation in its own power, and we expect the House, with the support of the proposal for a decision, to give the State Court of Auditors a sufficient impulse to not wait for the roasted pigeon to begin the audit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the T/550 initiative to amend Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code in order to ensure a more effective protection of the official and public tasks and of the persons supporting them. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. [[16.50]] The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Craftor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It is a sad fact that not nearly a day goes by that we do not hear from the news or the media about an attack on a person with a public mission. In the most dense cases, this happens to medical staff, attacking paramedics. Not so long ago, there was a case where these workers were subjected to three attacks in one night. We know very well that, apart from their physical safety being compromised, those who commit such an act risk directly and indirectly human lives. That is why we have made use of our motion to increase the punishment of these people, to be higher, and therefore to have a greater deterrent effect, which will also provide greater protection for these workers, and to provide more protection for people who need the help of these public or public officials or even to save their lives. In fact, what the Parliament is going to discuss today is an actuality of our motion: for a pro-government motion, the Btk. modified, they want to be more stringent against pedophile offenders. At the time of the inclusion of this law in the series of articles in committees, the reason has been stated that it is not enough to influence these negative trends with one thing, it is not enough to protect our children from the perpetrators of paedophile crimes, but to deal with this issue more complexly. This complex question management includes this motion, which we are now asking for Parliament to include in the series of articles, because it is a very important tool for protecting our children, a very important system of child protection signalling, its structure. Among the participants of this system are public-service and official persons, who in many cases have a history and do not use it to protect minors because they feel intimidated. Until we change this situation and hit those who commit violent crimes against these people harder, we cannot expect them to do this by 100%; we cannot expect them to take every risk and take every opportunity to defend children. That's why we need to get them up to the Btk. It should also be subject to an increased level of protection, and to those who wish to attack them, it is a greater danger that a higher sentence, even I could say, could be regarded as an act that would be subject to a clear imprisonment. So, perhaps, we can prevent them from being put at risk even in the course of their public service? many times around the same places of residence or the same parts of the city? and greater protection should also serve to ensure that their profession is fully, 100%, either in accordance with their conscience or their professional creed. Is that why I'm asking you to reconsider your decision? especially the pro-government majority? What has been taken at the Justice Committee's meeting, and do take this issue into account, let us discuss it, and give greater protection to both public-service individuals and their beneficiaries. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-114	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the groups and the independent Members to speak. I give the floor first to Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group, in a two-minute timeframe.
u2014-10-20-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Joining in and continuing with the line of thought that my fellow Member has said: this bill is particularly important because we know that every problem has more than one framework for solutions, and this could be a solution in health care to find some means, but at present it is a solution in Btk. and Btk. it's tighter. What's the reason for tightening up? The proliferation of those acts. We hear a lot that the court itself and the legislator are examples of the proliferation of certain acts. Well, these acts have increased most of the time, so it is said that the rescue workers are being attacked almost every other day. The other thing that is absolutely necessary to take into account is that it is a danger to society. The danger to society in attacking people with public confidence is almost unquestionable, and there is no reason to think that these acts may be the most dangerous to social standards. And what supports tightening up is that this tightening up would threaten the perpetrator with a punishment that is inescapable. We would raise the sentence for 2-8 years, which would mean there would be no loopholes, there would be no first, second, third options to avoid the punishment of the perpetrator. So the inevitability, the proliferation and the danger to society can be just enough to bring this tightening through, since these acts undermine public confidence the most. This Jobbik proposal, of course, protects not only rescue workers and not only those working in this area, but all the other official persons and those with a public mission that society must value. With this tightening up, Jobbik wants to protect these people, and that means that Jobbik appreciates these people with high priority and great importance, so I ask for support for inclusion in the series. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-116	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Schiffer, Head of Group, LMP Group, has made a statement. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-117	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, in the case of several criminal code amendments, the number of officials and the number of persons carrying out public tasks has been extended by Parliament, thus indicating that persons carrying out such tasks enjoy increased protection and that violent crimes committed to their injury are of particular importance. However, in recent years, LMP has voted against every proposal to deal with social crises purely by increasing penalties. We reject the criminal policy which believes that because of the fact that the sentence of 1 to 5 years has been raised to a sentence of 2 to 8 years, the proliferation of these acts will be reduced. What are you building this on, fellow Members? Why would anyone, if, let's say, the case is not two to eight years, but, let's say, five to ten years, then the frequency of such acts will decrease? This is not a good way, we do not advocate repressive criminal policy, it would be much more necessary to strengthen supply systems, including around the judicial portfolio, and the social care system that is suitable for young people who, where appropriate, engage in such acts of violence, integrate or strengthen the protective supervisory network which, where appropriate, is capable of redirecting chronic offenders to a better path. We do not see the benefit of this repressive criminal policy; we do not see any justification for the fact that if, where appropriate, the punishment of this act is doubled, this would reduce the proliferation of these acts. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the representatives of the factions if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, who wishes to respond to what has been said in a two-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, that these issues need to be dealt with in a complex way, and only such a measure does not solve the problem. But I don't think that, without such a Btk. tightening up, handling all the other problems can't get to the finish line. Of course, I could also say here that if the judges took advantage of the possibility of making the strictest possible judgments in such cases, as strict as possible, that it would be possible to have a deterrent force that could be part of the complex system, either in addition to changing the social care system or increasing the powers of patrons, which could eliminate these problems or reduce these problems, because unfortunately, we cannot possibly say that this phenomenon could completely disappear from the country. [[17.00]] In this respect, I ask you to consider, and on this basis, even the LMP fraction will make its decision. Thank you for your support. In the old Hungarian saying, I believe that the fact that the majority of the government did not speak to this question means that silence is consent [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We'll find out soon enough.]] Therefore, they have overruled their previous judicial committee decision and will support Parliament's ability to discuss this serious issue even in the context of such a Btk. amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the inclusion in the series of proposals we have just discussed. I ask you whether you will consider the setting up of an ad hoc committee for the parliamentary oversight of the construction and implementation of new nuclear power stations at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by Bertalan Tóth and other representatives, H/283. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the motion for a resolution with 41 votes in favour, 100 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles H/1241 on the extraordinary control of the management of the Hungarian National Bank by Sándor Burány and other Members. I have put forward a proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the motion for a resolution with 43 votes in favour, 100 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I ask you whether you will be included in a series of subjects in order to better protect the official and public-service and supporters of Act C of 2012 by Members of Adam Mirkóczki and Sebestyén C. on the Criminal Code [[Noise. ? The president's ringing the bell.]] T/550. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 18 votes in favour, 104 votes against and 20 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. Now it's time for immediate questions and answers. Thank you for your cooperation. I'll give the meeting to Vice President István Hiller. [[It's a short break.]] (The chair is occupied by Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament. In the notary seat, Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi.)
u2014-10-20-121	Welcome. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Lukács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: "Who are you covering for? It's an address. It's up to Congressman. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-122	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, For days, one of the most important international and internal political news in Hungary is the case of the six government officials whose entry has been banned from the United States. We can now talk about six people, and we can also talk about government employees, because today this has been confirmed by the United States Embassy. We are also told that their entry into the United States was banned because they were involved in corruption cases, and the press mentioned concrete companies and cases today. Compared to this, today's government actors are still talking about having no idea who they are, no idea what happened, and they have absolutely no idea who they are or who they are. It is hard to believe in such a case that an online news portal has more influence over what is happening than the Hungarian government, so we think that you know what has happened and you know who is involved. I would ask the Secretary of State whether he is involved in your ministry, all the more so because the National Tax and Customs Office has been named in this case. Is there anyone involved? If you cannot answer this now, will you at least be willing to ask at the level of your executives, officials, for statements as to whether you are involved in this matter, and if you are involved in this matter, will you take the appropriate steps? Besides, we think that this should be done in every ministry, not waiting for the Americans to show off. The government could find that out with a simple investigation if they wanted to. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-123	As I understand it, Congressman, you accept the Secretary of State as a reply. Hello, Congressman. [[Defiance.]] If I understand correctly... [[For signal:]] He'll take it. In that case, Mr Tállai State Secretary shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It's an honor to accept my reply, Congressman. [[Zoltán Lukács: I believe that!]] I just don't agree. If you know more than the government or the Ministry, then why ask [[Defiance. ? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: ? Zoltán Lukács: Nice, I just didn't say that.]] As you have provided specific figures and figures that the government, the Ministry of National Economy, the Minister or the State Secretary who is responding have no knowledge of. However, I can reassure you: today and yesterday, who have spoken on this issue by government, Minister Péter Szijjártó, Minister János Lázár, Minister of State, Levente Nagy, Secretary of State [[János Lázár: Hungarian!]] ? Excuse me, Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente? The public was assured that it was in the interest of the Hungarian government, the Hungarian public, to find out why it happened, to find out and to make public what was the reason for this, if there is a reason at all, and to make it public as soon as possible. That is why, for example, Minister János Lázár met and attended the meeting of the National Security Committee, who also confirmed that there is such a good relationship between the two countries and friendship that Hungary rightly expects this, the Hungarian Government rightly expects them to inform them that if they are destined to take such legal action against Hungarian people. So it is in our interest that the matter should be fully publicized and the reasons should be revealed as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches]]
u2014-10-20-125	Thank you very much. Congressman's got a minute. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-126	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You know exactly, and that's what they're basing the entire communication on, that they can't name people under American law, but you need to know exactly, and you must know precisely, because Minister Lazarus said this morning that he was sure? and confirmed it to the press? that ministers, State Secretarys and Deputy State Secretarys are not involved in the matter. Now, if you only know who's not involved, but you don't know who's involved, then I don't know how you know who's not involved. [[Defiance.]] Obviously, they should know. So if you're saying that you know who's not involved, then logically, you also know who's involved. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] Because if that's not the case, then they could probably be involved with the State Secretarys. I understand you don't understand. [[Delight and murmur from the pro-government benches.]] But besides you, everyone in the world understands that. What we're talking about here is that you're making a point on this issue. I just want to ask the Secretary of State if he wouldn't do it to get his phone out and call the president of the NAV to see if he's involved in this matter or not, and if he's done with this conversation, he could just tell us right here. Okay? Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-127	A rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go. [[17.10]]
u2014-10-20-128	Honourable Congressman, You know more than we do, because if I count correctly, there is a minister, secretary of state, deputy secretary of state, hundreds of people, and a Hungarian citizen is still 9 million 900 thousand, so to find out who is involved... If you say that there are personal rights in America, imagine that there are personality rights in Hungary as well. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Zoltán Lukács: We disagree.]] We do not agree on this, and we stress that the Member disagrees on this. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So once again, it is in the interests of the government, the interests of the Ministry, the interest of the Ministry of National Economy, that it is in the interest of the Ministry of National Economy to be made public as soon as possible if this legal action has taken place in the United States of America. [[Intercoms in the lines of the MSZP: Take out your phone! ? Call the president of the NAV. We'll give you his number.]] Find out what the reason for this is, there are reasons for corruption, there are political reasons, or there are other reasons. Believe me, we have a much greater interest in finding out the truth than you do, because that is how long you can levitate it from a political point of view, and we would like to close it as soon as possible. [[Interview in the ranks of the MSZP: Let's do it!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-129	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr.Előd Novák, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Why is there another III/II person in his government after János Martonyi?" It's an address. Congressman Novak has the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Unfortunately, your government will continue to rehab the past of State Security, to put in place former professional personnel and certain members of the agency network. They can also be given government functions, valued and decorated. Even in the appointments of the first Orbán government, in its staff policy and in its cader development plans, the past of state security was a competitive advantage. This is demonstrated by János Martonyi, Imre Boros, László Nógrádi, Zsigmond Járai, Sándor Kopátsy or Károly Szita. You still have distinguished relationships with agents named Bátori and Lawrence, the former a Reformed, the latter a Catholic bishop. Following the D-209 agent Péter Medgyessy's former colleague, the III/II agent recruited under the cover name of Târgu Mures, László Tasnádi's former III/II senior officer, Sándor Pintér's chief of staff, who also oversees the state security surveillance of Imre Nagy's funeral, was appointed Secretary of State for Internal Affairs and Police. I note that Mr Sándor Pintér appointed Major General Kálmán Kocsis as Chief National Security Advisor of the III-I. Deputy Chief of Staff. In a cowardly way, you have tried to pass on responsibility to the National Remembrance Committee, which only serves to stall and smudge to this day. Finally, I would also like to find out his position on the case of the famous advisor of János Lázár, the former labourer Gustáv Zoltai, as even Gergely Gulyás, the Fidesz vice-president of the Parliament, said: "The appointment of government advisors to an ex-communist worker is irreconciliably contrary to what many and many of us have said about our attitude to totalitarian dictatorships, just as it is incompatible with the values of the Fundamental Law. What's the matter with you? Says the Fidesz Vice President of Parliament. Question: "What does Viktor Orbán say?" [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-131	Thank you very much. It's the Prime Minister's word. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll answer what I know. We have already discussed the matter of Minister Martonyi here in this House once, I could express my position, I do not wish to repeat it, I just want to say that I am maintaining it. As regards Mr László Tasnádi State Secretary, he has been known for a long time by a large number of Members in Parliament. After 1990, he started a major professional career at the Information Office, then at the Police Protection Service, and then as a criminal director of the APEH. As Chief of Staff of the Ministry of the Interior, he represented the wallet more than 70 times at Commission public meetings from 2010. László Tasnádi has done his work with public satisfaction, which is why he has been given the opportunity to make progress. Until his appointment, neither Jobbik nor any other party attacked or criticized Mr Tasnádi's work nor his person. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-133	Thank you. Congressman, you have one minute.
u2014-10-20-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that even in this slow speech, our Prime Minister has actually tried to use only half the time frame available even for misrepresentation. We do not have a problem with Laszlo Tasnádi's activities since the change of regime, or the fact that he has had such a career, as you said. We have a problem with the derailed change of regime, which, unfortunately, you are one of the perpetrators, and I would like you to face this at last, and to give your honest opinion on whether you consider it acceptable or whether you consider it compatible with the spirit of the Fundamental Law that an III/II officer, a senior officer, may be placed in your government. Do you agree with Gulyás Gergő, or could you lead the platform of the most liberals of Fidesz, with the attitude represented by the appointment of a former worker, an ex-worker, a communist functionary advisor? I look forward to your meaningful answer, and I look forward to your honesty. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-135	It's the Prime Minister's word.
u2014-10-20-136	Honourable Congressman, I don't like talking nonsense. You can't talk about eight different things at once. If you think we can discuss the subject of derailed change of regime at some point, can I deal with one thing at a time? Is that an important question? With the question of Secretary of State László Tasnádi. I repeat: until the appointment of State Secretary, although Mr Tasnádi was a public figure in political life, neither Jobbik nor any other party attacked or criticized Mr Tasnádi's person or work. After that, however, you are right, the question arises as to whether such a person should be appointed Secretary of State. If it was good for APEH, law enforcement, and good for an Information Office employee, could it not be a good secretary of state? And the answer I gave was, I think it's possible. That is a position that many people criticize. You criticized him, you criticized him in Fidesz. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'll take it, assuming, but not allowing it to be a mistake. But since there is no objection to the Secretary of State's identity, I cannot correct a mistake with another error, because in such cases the errors are not withdrawn from each other, but added up. Therefore, even if this decision seems to be a mistake, I will take the consequences, and the Secretary of State will remain, because I cannot correct it with error. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-137	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you to respect the house rules for one minute in this case. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When are you going to do something about Hungary not being a country without grandchildren? It's an address. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-138	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, For years now, we have been wondering how many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens have fled abroad because they cannot get from one to the other in Hungary. The latest statistics come from early 2013, and they say that already around 350 thousand Hungarian citizens, most of them young citizens, went abroad. Tens of thousands have since left this country. I could put it as if complete Hungarian small towns were emptying out and going abroad. If we ask these people why they're leaving their country, the answers are spooky. They have answers that they don't have a livelihood, they don't see their future, they don't know how to get from one to the other, they can't start a family until they have an apartment and they can't get an apartment without self-control. They also say that they feel unworthy that if they start to undertake, they cannot start small, so that their business can become great, and that bureaucracy simply kills the momentum in businesses. So, are there a number of problems listed here in the opposition? And the LMP in particular? We say to you week after week, but you keep talking about cuts in overhead and cheap electricity and other government propaganda, and they simply don't answer these points, which if we put them side by side, they all show us why young Hungarians are leaving this country. We are currently living in a country where half the young people who graduate are now thinking about leaving this country if they want a career, if they want a family, or simply if they want to live. I am asking you, Minister: how many hundred thousand Hungarians must leave this country so that you can finally act and take these concerns seriously, so that we do not hear only government propaganda all the time? [[17.20]] And what should we hope from you if you couldn't even introduce the Youth Guarantee programme, which could go from the beginning of the year and provide a safe living [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] 18-25-year-olds? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for the LMP benches. Interpreting from the same place.]] Viktor Orbán? !
u2014-10-20-139	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You addressed your immediate question to the Prime Minister, who is clearly present, so he will give you an answer. [[It's a rare blur.]] Prime Minister, please.
u2014-10-20-140	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question, because it gives me the opportunity to express my position on a matter which is also very confusing. We hear such words not only from you, but also generally from this question: fleeing abroad, emigrating and so on. We should decide what we want after all. I remember well that when we joined the European Union, there was a debate about whether we should join or not, there was a referendum on this. We must be aware that the European Union is a single labour market where people can move freely. What you are saying is the logic that Prime Minister Cameron represents, who wants to deport the Hungarians from London. Is that what you want? Do you really want to drive water to the expense of the prime ministers and countries who are working in Europe today to cut off the employment potential of Central Europeans outside their own countries? Why are you against the Hungarian people? These people are migrant workers, they either go out to work or they stay outside or they come home. One thing we know for sure: it is estimated that about two billion euros are sent home every year, supporting their families and supporting their country. These people must not be deported as you wish, but must stand by them and be protected; these are honest, decent people who want to make a living from work, but do you see them for different reasons? Is it possible to argue about the reasons for this? That today they can earn more abroad than at home. Why do you want to take this opportunity away from them? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. ? Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Only there can they search!]]
u2014-10-20-141	Thank you very much. Congresswoman's on the phone. She's got a minute. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-142	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister, but unfortunately you misunderstood me, just as I think you misunderstand the people who left this country. It is clear that these people did not leave Hungary because they were looking for an adventure or because they wanted to taste the food there, or because they wanted to raise their children there, or because they wanted to leave their sick mother and father in the country so that they could not take care of it in their old years; that is why I am talking about a country without grandchildren. Mr. Prime Minister, These people leave this country because they don't get from one to two here; because they don't have any prospects, and the terrible thing is that ever since Fidesz ran this country, this situation has been escalating dramatically. I admit one thing: this worsening started in 2008, but since you have been running this country, this problem has grown dramatically since 2010. And I think, Prime Minister, that in such a situation, not the words of the opposition representative [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We should turn it around, but rather honestly answer the question of what will happen to these people, when they can come home.
u2014-10-20-143	The Prime Minister needs a return answer. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-144	Of course, they can come home at any time, partly because this is not prohibited by the law, and on the other hand they are welcome, thirdly because there is obviously a reason for sending their money home. I would therefore like to reiterate: the question that, since Fidesz has led the country, what has happened in Hungary, bad things or good things, has been decided by the voters three times this year. Respect, please, your opinion. As for the question of why people are out there as guest workers, when they want to come home and under what circumstances, we leave it to them to decide. Let us be glad that we have fought out a single European labour market. I would like to point out that you are pushing water for those European state leaders who want to take this right away today. One of the most important conflicts today in Europe was between President Barroso and Prime Minister Cameron: they want to take away this right for Central Europeans. Let's not let them take it. And please don't go against the interests of the Hungarian people. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and do not serve prime ministers who want to push Hungarians out of their labour markets. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-145	Dear Parliament, Congressman Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question:. What kind of energy efficiency help can households expect this year? It's an address. [[Viktor Orbán is leaving the Chamber.]] The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the Secretary of State's identity. [[On Jenő Manninger's mark:]] In that case, the Member shall have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-146	Dear Secretary of State, According to the 2014 retail energy efficiency barometer, this summer one fifth of households planned to do some kind of renovation for energy purposes in the near future, almost half of whom would start their work in order to reduce their overhead. [[Several of the governing parties are leaving the Chamber. ? Noise.]] Most often, they mentioned the replacement of windows and facade insulation among their plans. In households where facade insulation has been achieved in recent years [[The president's ringing the bell.]] maintenance costs decreased by around 24 per cent on average. [[Zoltán Lukács: What is it? Has the boss left? And Jenő's talking for nothing.]] Seven percent of the renovations have received the grant in the last ten years, but already 12 percent of those who want to renew it in the future expect to receive the grant. [[Noise.]] The government announced its new residential energy efficiency applications in September [[Zoltán Lukács: Pay attention to the speaker.]] to support the exchange and modernisation of heaters, household appliances and windows. Dear Secretary of State, When can households expect applications to be opened? When are the applications and payments to successful applicants expected? How much support can a household expect? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-147	Thank you very much. It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-148	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is launching a seven-year programme to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings, which is more extensive than ever before, as the first step of which in September this year the development portfolio announced the "Hot Home" program. In September we opened three new tender schemes, which provide non-refundable support to individuals residing in Hungary. With the announced tenders, the government supports the upgrading of apartments with a separate heating system, which are part of residential buildings with up to four apartments built with non-industrial technology, with an additional HUF 1 billion for the replacement of windows. The household machine replacement sub-programme provides for more than HUF 600 million in support for the replacement of outdated energy waste machines, especially for pensioners and large family applicants, and for individuals with further Hungarian residence. Tenders may be submitted after the 30th calendar day following the publication of the calls. In view of the high interest in the programme and in order to ensure the smooth submission of tenders, different deadlines for submission as region of the portfolio have been set, as detailed in the Guide to Proposals. Payment of aid is expected to start from January 2015, depending on the implementation of investments. Applications not only provide investment support to households, but also make a significant contribution to reducing household costs. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-149	Thank you very much. Congressman, here you go.
u2014-10-20-150	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Indeed, we know that the thermal insulation and heating system of the Hungarian building stock, even compared to the surrounding countries, is very outdated compared to the Western countries, so that 41-45 percent of heating systems can be saved and significant amounts can be saved by thermal insulation. There was a great need for this proposal. I trust him, and I'm hoping that? Is the national building energy strategy ready, as we've heard? new applications will also be put in place in this context. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-151	Mr. Secretary, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-152	Thank you very much. The government plans to launch a complex energy-saving renovation programme this year with a budget of HUF 10 billion for condominiums. Proposals provide opportunities for a wide range of people to increase energy efficiency and reduce costs. Taking into account the proposals planned to be launched this year? So, thanks to a total grant of approximately HUF 13 billion? a further 44 thousand families will be able to make new investments that will save energy in the near future. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2014-10-20-153	Thank you so much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Is this normal? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of Márta Demeter:]] He'll take it. In that case, it's up to you. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-20-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Secretary of State, as you oversee the NAV, unless otherwise, you must have been informed by the press of the controversial issues relating to the propertyisation of Antal Rogán and its tax control. As is well known, in the spring, Antal Rogán improved his property declaration twice, after it was found that the data on the property of the apartment did not reflect the full reality. At the same time, the pro-government politician announced that he had initiated an IRS investigation against himself. Antal Rogán announced after the municipal elections that the NAV had examined the cover for its purchase of real estate for 30-40 days and found everything in order. On the other hand, experts have shown that the duration of the substantive investigation of the origin of the property is well over 30-40 days. At most during that period, checks may be carried out to fulfil certain tax obligations. In this formal procedure, on the basis of the existing documents, they merely verify whether the person examined has fulfilled his tax obligation or can duly justify it by means of documents. Overall control of the origin of wealth is much more time-consuming and takes several months. It can therefore be assumed that such an investigation has not been carried out. And in view of this investigation, the Fidesz faction leader considers this matter to be closed, while the NAV is deeply silent and eliminates all journalistic issues. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State whether, after the procedure which is supposedly only to examine formal aspects, an ex officio procedure has been initiated for the actual discovery of the origin of wealth. What action are you taking to avoid the appearance that in some politically sensitive cases NAV acts as an impartial and objective authority?
u2014-10-20-155	Thank you very much. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your question is, "Is that normal?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, The answer is no. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] And that's because the house rules are 125. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act states that the subject matter of the immediate question must be defined in an address. You missed that. Is that normal? The question doesn't comply with the house rules. We were well-intentioned, we tried from you...
u2014-10-20-157	That's for me to decide.
u2014-10-20-158	...to find out from you...
u2014-10-20-159	Mr. Secretary, according to the house rules, you can't judge the board of directors, you can't analyze the house rules here. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Judge of Congress! ? Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] Answer the question. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties.]] Don't judge housekeeping. Go to the committee if you have to. Here's the rule of the house: I'm the one who says what's possible and what's not. Secretary of State, answer the question. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-160	May I continue? May I? [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much. So we were well-meaning, and we asked you what this question was about. You refused to answer, and none of your experts did. Look at the other 13 immediate questions. Every congressman knows what he wants to ask. You didn't ask this to get an answer, you probably asked it to be there, or [[There's a lot of noise from the benches of the MSZP. ? Intercoms: Answer me! ? He can't answer!]] Try a pro-dominant politician, who knows whether it's true or not. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Do you know or not?]] I have one thing to say to you: the National Tax and Customs Office is legally operating. [[Zoltán Lukács: Did you call the president?]] And in every case, even on the question referred, impartially, legally [[Gábor István Bellozó: Don't get personal!]] By law, he acted in the spirit of the law. I respectfully ask you to ask your question in the future in a house-to-house manner. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why they won't let you into America!]] and then you can get a specific answer to your question. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: So you can't answer! Oh, he's weak. ? Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you.
u2014-10-20-161	It's for the congresswoman. Thank you so much for giving us such an exhaustive answer. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-162	I think, Mr. Secretary, that my question was very clear, and it concerned whether you considered it normal, that there have been several cases mentioned here in recent months? whether it was András Horváth's former NAV employee case or Antal Rogán's propertyisation case, the questions raised about them? For which it is important to know whether it is normal, whether it is normal for cases to happen, there is a way of dealing with cases that can seriously undermine the confidence of Hungarian citizens in the objectivity and adequacy of the operation of the NAV. My question was, and it was clear that I was doing it in good faith, how, what steps would you take to remove this type of mistrust and restore the objectivity of the operation of the NAV and its functioning in such a way in the future. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] Thank you. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now try to answer that.]]
u2014-10-20-163	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-10-20-164	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you know what you'd like to ask, you should be able to determine your address. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Everyone understands but you!]] I can assure you that the NAV has carried out the investigation on both of the issues specifically raised by you, and the results of the investigation are public. There was no lawlessness in either case or in the other. What I can tell you is that you may not like or accept this, but the National Tax and Customs Office is doing its work impartially according to the law, in the spirit of the law, and this is how you have done your job in these two specific cases, and have made your decision on them. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What about the green dossier?]] Whether you accept it or not. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: The answer was quite contratically high!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-165	Thank you very much. I suggest you do not act in duet. Dear Parliament, Mr. President Novak, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question:. Eastern opening or rather opening an Eastern bank account is the Minister's aim? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Minister Levente Magyar to respond to his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2014-10-20-166	Just like Gábor Simon, in the case of the fabulous riches of Peter Szijjártó, only the person concerned can know the truth, so I would wait for his personal confession. If you don't consider this too naive, Mr. President. Thank you very much. [[Delightful, applause from the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-167	I don't consider it too naive, just too much text. We understand if we do and we don't. [[Defiance.]] The Minister... [[He's taking a short break.]] Brief technical consultation... The Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. However, since the Member did not accept it, another better Member should have the right to an immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Has the bank been cleared for public loans taken up by the former SZDSZ but not repaid? The Prime Minister appointed Minister János Lázár to answer his urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the person who is responding or whether he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-168	Yeah, I'll take it if my time doesn't work. Thank you very much. At the beginning of the year, the report by the State Audit Office on the management of the former Alliance of Free Democrats received considerable press coverage, according to which the liberal party that was known for its anti-nationalism and government Panama did not repay the loans it had borrowed. According to the auditor's report and the press information that has been published since then, the debt of liberals can amount to approximately HUF 2 billion in total. The loans in question were taken by the party from the state-owned Hungarian Development Bank on the basis of the State Property Act. The loans were therefore resources from taxpayers' money, which was used by the state-owned financial institution with taxpayers' money to provide technical assistance to the liberal party for the purchase of real estate. [[17.40]] The case was suspected of a number of lawlessness, in which I also filed a criminal complaint: fiscal fraud, withdrawal of debt and misappropriation of criminal offences. The investigation has been ongoing ever since. However, regardless of the suspected transactions of liberals, the Hungarian Development Bank also has the responsibility to take action to recover the claim that has expired four years ago because of non-payment, so I asked Minister Lászlóné Németh, who oversees the bank's ownership, and later Minister János Lázár with a written question. Both of the respondents rejected the substantive reply by referring to the fact that the bank secret would be affected. I ask the honourable Minister: how can we talk about bank secrets when public funds are spent? How is it possible that the Hungarian Development Bank will not arrange for the recovery of the claim, which was cancelled about four years ago due to non-payment, otherwise secured by real estate mortgage? Would you like to count, Minister, the 100 percent state-owned bank for obvious omissions that cause taxpayers financial damage, or would you like to keep that accountability only on a sound campaign slogan like so many good promises in the past? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-169	Thank you very much. Minister János Lázár, please.
u2014-10-20-170	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I would like to inform you of the following. My answer is determined by two things: on the one hand, property law, the 2007 CVI. Act 2 which has developed and enabled parties with parliamentary representation to make this arrangement available; and in addition, it defines the room for manoeuvre with regard to the answer in the 2013 CCXXXVII. Act on a credit institution, financial undertakings, in particular Article 161. And it's about bank secrets. At the same time, I believe that banking secrecy has a less social interest than a response to the Member, so I am taking this opportunity to draw attention to certain things. It is a loan of HUF 415 million, which was taken from the Hungarian Development Bank under a state guarantee by SZDSZ. The loan was granted on 27 December 2010 by the Hungarian Development Bank? After the Alliance of Free Democrats didn't pay? has resigned and has had enforcement rights in respect of real estate collateral since 2 March 2011. Therefore, the Hungarian Development Bank acted in accordance with prudent banking rules at the moment when its client became insolvent, who was otherwise empowered by law to use the construction, and the bank was obliged by law to provide the necessary credit. The SZDSZ did not pay 408.7 million forints. In this case, the Hungarian Development Bank also tried to enforce the State guarantee in accordance with prudent banking rules and procedures. However, the NAV said that serious errors were made in the granting of the loan, so the State did not guarantee the loan, so the State did not guarantee the loan of the Alliance of Free Democrats, the State did not pay. This is now with the Hungarian Development Bank, which is trying to make an attempt to recover the amount of the security and to enforce the rights of the party in the collateral. I would like to note here that I have decided to grant you access to [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to the Member, I grant the Member a personal right of access to the credit agreement. If you wish to make use of it, I must create the necessary legal conditions for this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-171	Congressman's got a minute, please.
u2014-10-20-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, What I don't understand is if I've been trying to find out data for over six months now, and I've asked Mrs. Lászlón Németh and you why you couldn't have given me the answer in which you would have written me what these things were. Even then, you could have considered whether it was the banking secrets or more important for people to know about these things and offered to see them. We're about to move forward. It wouldn't have been six months. Is that what my question was about? And I didn't get an answer to that? What if it's been 2011? Like you said? There's enforcement law in the bank's hands, so what have you done since 2011? Now it's almost time to say fifth year? so that this money can finally be returned to the state register, and it cannot be that the SDS still owes this amount. And it couldn't have happened, and you would have had the opportunity to support our bill in which we would have excluded the former leaders of the SZDSZ from politics while they were in debt, and you couldn't be sitting here on behalf of the liberals right now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] who played a big part in this debt at SDS. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-173	Mr. Secretary, you have one minute.
u2014-10-20-174	Congressman! First of all, I wanted to give you the opportunity to succeed in this case, so it is certainly wise that you now have the opportunity to take a look at the file in front of Parliament. All my colleagues who work at the bank advised me not to allow this in any way. As a minister who has ownership rights, do I think it is because the public interest in this case overrides it? In my opinion and my conviction, as a practitioner of ownership rights, is that my position? the private interests related to the protection of bank secrets. In the spirit of that, I'd like you to come to the bank and look into the documents. Otherwise, the loss will occur if we are unable to recover our claim in connection with the sale of the property. This process has not yet been completed in this sense. I'd like to keep that thin piece of legitimity I'm walking on, regarding banking secrets, property laws and credit institutions' laws. That's why I suggest you come to the bank and look into the documents and listen to the references of my colleagues. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-175	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr István Simicskó Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member whether he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Móring József:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-20-176	Yes, thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Speaking of success, we all know that Olympic, world championship or European championship gold medals are not given to athletes for free. To be at the forefront of the world, one must spend years of his life preparing, not to mention the burdens that his family has borne. A lot of training and competition also make it extremely difficult for athletes to complete their school studies, despite which many athletes are willing to take the challenge and reach the top, thereby raising the reputation of Hungarian sport and glory for the country. In 2013, 107 top athletes from higher education received the Hungarian Sports Stars Scholarship. The Hungarian Sport Stars Scholarship was founded by the government. Its aim is to support students who are active students in higher education institutions in Hungary, who are athletes in the Olympic or Paralympic competition system, who have the chance to win European championship, world championship or Olympic, Paralympic medals in the Olympic or Paralympic event. 193 contestants from 25 sports have applied for the first competition last year. The winners of the scholarship programme received significant support by category. Dear Secretary of State, I ask how the government will assist sports stars studying higher education in 2014 in order to obtain their first higher education. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-177	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, please.
u2014-10-20-178	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He asked a very important question, since your question is all about whether the government sees, knows, whether the young Hungarians know their talents in sport, whether they help them to succeed in double careers, because they can also learn in higher education and achieve excellent sports performances. Your important question is about appreciation, effectiveness, competitiveness and the ability to maintain Hungarian sport. I would like to quote Ference Széchényi, who in 1817 left the following lines of instructions to his son, Count István Széchenyi. This is exactly what it says: "You must also take greater care to keep your body safe so that your soul can have a decent place to live and to do what is good... . I think that a healthy society involves paying attention to the physical, mental, physical, moral, mental development of young people. We use sport as a tool, since sport is a huge gift to raise healthy generations. It is also certain that if GPs could prescribe the right cure, this should include regular exercise, the need for exercise, the need to prevent many diseases. So we can only recommend sport to everyone, and the government, a sports-friendly government, is doing it to make our young people play sports. We also support competition sport. Did we have exactly one of those gaps? And this is the sports star scholarship? With which we can keep our young, talented athletes at home. In recent years, some 119 young athletes have participated in this program. Of these, he won medals at 49 major World Championships, European Championships, 12 major World Championships, and 37 total European Championships. [[17.50]] What's the sequel? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The only answer to the continuation of a successful programme can be: we will continue and wait for applications to continue. The deadline for the application is 31 October. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-179	Thank you very much. Congressman, please.
u2014-10-20-180	Thank you very much. It is reassuring that the government considers it important not only to renovate sports facilities but also to support top athletes in university studies. It is very important that the government also supports the completion of the top sport, the country's Olympics or Paralympics, the world, the European Championship, and thus the achievement of the civic qualifications of athletes who have gained recognition, the subsequent well-being and the degree, thus recognising the extraordinarily extraordinary achievements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-181	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: å Will the Ministry of Development improve the quality of life of small settlements? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. Honourable Member, I ask you if you accept. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-20-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In many cases, I have had the opportunity to ask a number of ministers about the directions for rural development, the opportunities for small settlements, and in the last few weeks, like several Members of Parliament, I have been involved in local government campaigns throughout the country, and I have seen in many places that, unfortunately, not only what I experience at home in the Central Tisza region, but the situation of small settlements everywhere in the country is very, very devastating. Minister Miklós Seszták, during his hearing with our commission, assured us that the development policy directions will go clearly towards small settlements. However, I have very serious concerns about whether this can be achieved. I am concerned because half of the Hungarian roads failed a recent professional test. The state of the covered roads, according to the National Road Data Bank, has received a poor rating. The condition of the road surfaces can only be described as good on 8.2 percent of national roads, 2553 kilometres; 6.5 percent of the right roads, or 2009 kilometres; while 20 percent of them can be tolerated at 6433 kilometers. The remaining 64 percent, almost 20,000 kilometers of quality, came back with a completely devastating opinion. It would take HUF 1000 billion to stop the deterioration of the national road network of 31,000 kilometres. In Hungary, it is practically a fact that the distance from motorways, the distance from the single-digit main roads, the distance from the two-digit main roads determine the development opportunities, the relocation of industry and the possibility of jobs. There has been a very serious failure of the Hungarian governments over the last ten years, and the fact that the government is trying to cover this up with some priority investments does not satisfy me overall. The Minister said that he would also visit and experience Kisvárda. I am now pleased to see that the construction of Kisvárda's stadium has become a major investment out of 920 million forints. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Overall, this is not enough to catch up with the countryside and more needs to be done. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-183	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-10-20-184	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, there are 131,000 kilometers of roads, of which 31 thousand are state-owned, over 100 thousand are local governments. You said you've been missing jobs for the last ten years. No, they've been missing jobs for the past 60 years. A significant part of these roads were built as wagons, which somehow survived the carriage traffic, not the trucks of 20, 40, 60 tonnes. So our goal is not to treat surface areas, but to thoroughly renovate this otherwise delightfully large number of kilometres of roads. At the same time, in recent years, in the last EU cycle, some 2 000 projects have launched and completed more than HUF 200 billion in development, specifically to improve the living conditions of small settlements. As far as infrastructure is concerned, since your question was essentially about roads: in recent years we have re-launched the closed lines, started at a distance of 385 km on 11 lines, and we would like to start further lines. As far as roads are concerned, improvements were made on 157 routes of nearly HUF 102 billion over a length of 1000 kilometres. If you're asking if that's enough, you're not. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's the best we've had in years. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-185	Congressman, you have one minute.
u2014-10-20-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I find it difficult to accept these numbers, which you can say both on the rail network and on the road network, because this is it? Like you said? Completely inadequate. It can't be done like this. At the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we recently listened to Mr Miklós Zsolt Kiss, State Secretary, tell us what a thousand billion-dollar development of European Union funds is possible in the Hungarian countryside, but if accessibility and access are not favourable to tourism or industry, these efforts are insufficient, and that is not enough. We need to move in the direction of how this should change. Unfortunately, in Hungary we are talking more and more about a large number of disadvantaged groups in Parliament, my fellow parties and Members of Parliament raise their voice for different groups who suffer some kind of disadvantage. It is simply worth noting that discrimination in Hungary is increasingly due to regionality, and that they are as far away from the centre, from the centre, away from the roads, there is an increasing disadvantage and lag. This should be eliminated, and this should be eliminated, to which the efforts so far have not been sufficient. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-187	Here you go.
u2014-10-20-188	Thank you. Congressman, demagogy isn't enough. I myself have lived in small settlements in Gömör for 36 years, I am well aware of what the road means and what the side road means. By the way, your ideological predecessors have eliminated the sidelines. So much for what anyone wants to comment on. Mr President, EU funds relate primarily to European routes, that is to say corridors, and to the capacity to carry 11.5 tonnes. In spite of both of us, European money cannot be spent, just what those rules allow it to do. The renovation of the home three, four and five-digit back roads is crucially necessary from domestic sources. I want us to do miracles in five years, you want them, we agree, neither of us can. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-189	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Bene Ildikó, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: . With what result was the introduction of a compulsory HPV vaccination in the autumn? It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the honourable Member if she accepts it. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-20-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, On average, 1,500 new cervical cancers are diagnosed each year in our country. The disease, if discovered in time, can be virtually completely cured. What is regrettable is that more than 400 women die every year in Hungary as a result of cervical cancer. In Hungary, cervical cancer is the second most common type of cancer in women aged 15-44, despite the fact that there is a regular screening of women aged 25-65 in Hungary today, however, the willingness to filter is extremely low. The epidemiological studies performed have shown that the development of cervical cancer is more than 90 percent related to human papillomavirus infection. From 2009 onwards, local initiatives were launched in Hungary with campaign vaccinations against HPV supported by local authorities, where municipalities provided financial assistance for the vaccination of 13-14-year-old girls. Nearly 300 municipalities have decided to fund 100% or part of the protection of people living in the settlement against cervical cancer. It is a good thing that the government decided to include HPV vaccination in the vaccination programme as of 2014. For the first time, girls who have reached the age of 12 and graduate from the seventh grade of primary school in the school year 2014-15 can receive a school campaign. It is of the utmost importance that the call for vaccination is accompanied by an information programme emphasising the importance of screening. [[18.00]] The first vaccination was scheduled until 15 September 2014. Priority is given to screening promotion programmes, the introduction of a mandatory HPV vaccine. It is of the utmost importance to increase the participation rate in screening tests. Mr. Secretary. How is the first experience of national vaccination against HPV assessed? How did parents make use of the option, and what other plans and programs are there to increase screening activity? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, here you go.
u2014-10-20-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The reason why we appreciate this program is extremely successful is because we have managed to achieve the 80 percent vaccination rate previously set at 83%, so far above what we planned. The original number was also very high, because in the case of vaccinations that are not mandatory, there has never been such a high rate, but I believe that in the last five years, since the municipalities have offered this opportunity in several places, the importance of eliminating the risks has spread to the public so much that many parents have thought that their children need it. The procurements were carried out in such a way that all this year's vaccinations could be carried out, and even the vaccine was good for 24 months, so we were able to obtain next year's vaccine. This year, 45,000 girls were affected by the possibility of vaccination, and as I said, 83 percent of them took it. It is important to give this vaccine at this age between 12 and 14 years of age because only two doses are required, with approximately six months apart. The first vaccinations were in October, in the first round; for some reason he missed out, because he wasn't at school or for some other reason, they were vaccinated in November; and for this, they will receive the second vaccination in April-May, six months, and next spring. By doing this free of charge at the age of 12-14, we will also reduce costs for everyone, as if someone were to receive it only at the age of 20, 25 or 30, they would cost much more. Besides, is it important to tell you that? As the congresswoman mentioned? This is the second most common type of cancer. These diseases could occur at the age of 40-45, but they can be prevented by girls in the seventh grade. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-193	Thank you very much. We also wish Mr. Secretary of State well-being. It's up to Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-194	Indeed, 83 percent grafting is a very serious number, and for the first time is an extremely important performance. I think that over the past year, in years, the very many public health measures taken by the government, and closely linked to this, if we think about reducing the intake of both public health product tax and trans fatty acids, or the fact that 58 FI offices have started their operation with general doctors and NGOs, that if protective screening is introduced, these are all very serious and very important steps, and this is very closely linked to the introduction of vaccination against HPV. However, once again, it is important to draw attention very seriously to the fact that, unfortunately, the willingness to filter in Hungary is very low, and we need to do as much as possible in order for the ladies to leave. I believe that we will be able to represent these results more seriously at the right time, with appropriate cooperation and with further programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-195	Secretary of State, please.
u2014-10-20-196	Thank you very much. Here, too, we can see that this is a very long-term preventive activity of the government, as the girls in the seventh grade face this at the age of 40-45. As we have indicated, 1,000 to 1300 women report this disease every year at the age of 40 to 50. So what we're now giving to young girls with this vaccine as a form of immunity is actually reducing the medical costs of 25 years after that. We need to think so far ahead of ourselves in this area. This government has not regretted this kind of prevention or screening over the past four years, and will continue to do so over the next four years, because we believe that by strengthening the provision of general medical care, strengthening screening programmes and such vaccinations, as you said, we will be able to preserve the health of the next period by increasing the willingness to vaccinate, which, on the one hand, will mean happier lives for citizens and lower costs for the e-cass in twenty to thirty years' time. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-197	Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Bárándy, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: "Do you intend to investigate, Minister? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to answer this urgent public task. I ask Congressman if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-20-198	Mr President, State Secretary Kontrat didn't want or couldn't answer, and Mr. Secretary of State is a local government secretary. Given that this is a police matter, I'll wait for the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-199	Thank you very much. We would have understood with yes or no. In this case, the Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. In this case, however, another member of the Socialist Party Group, Mr László Kiss, will be next. Member László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. The President appointed Vice-President Ádám Balog to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2014-10-20-200	Yeah.
u2014-10-20-201	You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-20-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, During the summer, I asked Mr. President of the Central Bank Matolcsy a written question asking whether it was true that the Central Bank would open foreign offices in New York, Paris, Hamburg, Rome, Buenos Aires and Beirut. In response, I was told that the news is true, that the main task of the offices is to communicate, monitor the economic processes of the country, research and monetary analysis. Since then, the news has exploded as a bomb that, while public funds are being opened to foreign offices at the central bank, our country's embassy in Estonia and Cyprus has been shut down for financial reasons. Dear House, During the previous week, when Mr Matolcsy asked the Socialist Group, he kept saying that the most important goal of the Hungarian National Bank was to secure Hungarian monetary policy. The question arises as to how Hungary's monetary policy is ensured by the foreign office to be opened in Argentina's capital, marching towards a new state failure. Is it the role of the government not to be caught off guard if this happens in Hungary? And in Beirut, what will the expensive institution do? The aim is to further develop the outstanding Hungarian-Lebanon central bank relations, which are already well-known and amazing in volume? Or maybe the beaches are good? Hamburg is also incomprehensible at first sight, given that the European Central Bank and the headquarters of the most important German companies are located in Frankfurt. Did they miss the address? Dear House, My question is: is it another waste at the Hungarian National Bank? What is the purpose of the foreign offices to be opened? Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-203	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Vice President Ádám Balog. You have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-204	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I realise that the Hungarian National Bank has been doing a lot more than it has done in the last many years, and this may be unusual for you, because these things did not happen before, and they do not understand why they are happening now and ask for an explanation. I believe that the Hungarian central bank has an obligation to give proper information to the Parliament's representative on these issues, but I also feel that these questions, these questions are a little overworked, because, for example, in this case, it is not nearly as much a step as the Member's question suspected to be. His question was, from where, from which part of the world and in what way does the central bank have information about the activities that take place there and how it can integrate them into its own everyday monetary policy activities. The world economy? I don't have to tell you that? at the moment he is quite upset, and there are very, very many new questions, many new problems that we need to know about immediately, because the Hungarian Parliament, Hungary, the Hungarian economy, expects us to be aware of the economic processes that are taking place in the international world. In Frankfurt, I report, we go regularly, so we do not have to set up an office there, because we are there, Mr President or myself regularly, every month, every two months, but colleagues are there even more often, coordinating and talking. The same is happening in Washington, London or even Tokyo, where a significant part of the financial process is taking place. There we do not need any additional offices, no further contacts, because we are present there, very often there are many colleagues. [[18.10]] At the same time, there are significant economic places in the world, such as Hamburg, a city with a huge trade, and we must also appear there. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-205	Congressman, you have one minute.
u2014-10-20-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I was expecting a similar answer. So I looked at the fact that earlier, when the central bank did have foreign offices, what the central bank was supposed to do. I've come to the conclusion that the central bank is currently carrying out a fraction of the tasks it did when it was maintaining foreign offices. And the reason why the central bank has closed these foreign offices in the past is because these tasks are already performed by Eximbank and the State Debt Management Center. Thus, while it was previously the case that the foreign activities of the central bank were carried out either in foreign trade or in the context of public debt, when Eximbank was established in 1994 and the Government Debt Management Centre was established, these tasks ceased. Thus, the central bank has either a monetary role or a supervisory role in the financial sector. I ask you what these offices serve for both monetary and financial sector supervision.
u2014-10-20-207	Mr. Vice President, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-208	I see you misunderstood me, Congressman. These offices are not Eximbank-like activities. There is a contact person here who informs the central bank of the operation of the local economy, of local economic policy developments. This is not a multi-person office, typically a single person, who sometimes in half-time, sometimes in full-time, but at low cost informs us about what is happening in these cities, what economic processes are taking place. I think we're confusing something here with some kind of earlier, completely different activity. Once again, I think that this question has been pushed too far, it is not of the magnitude that you think it is. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-209	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Representative Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik's representative, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, Are the victims going to be dealt with or dealt with? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll take it. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2014-10-20-210	Mr President, Dear House, On the billboards, the government's intention to account for banks returns, and we typically negotiate foreign exchange loans within the walls of the House. I would like to extend this circle a little bit, because the financial scandal that has been bitten off in the last year and a half affects every Hungarian citizen who receives a salary, receives a pension, has a bank account. According to the latest figures, more than HUF 186 billion of the so-called transaction tax was entered into the budget by the beginning of September. In this regard, according to the Statistical Office, the costs of bank users increased by 55 percent over a year and also by 55 percent, and in addition to expressing the intention to reduce financial debts, financial institutions and supervisory bodies have also stated that this amount of 100 billion has been passed on to Hungarian citizens, Hungarian customers in full. And according to the law you've made, the banks can pass on this new tax, only, I quote, with certain rules. So in an amazing way, according to the legislator's intention, the 100 billion-dollar burden was not paid by the privileged, kissing banks and financial institutions that, according to their billboards, you would be cleared, but, in the case of Hungarian citizens only, but also MKB, several types of customers will be forced to suffer a monthly increase in bank charges between 2300 and 2900 forints. And it can also be seen that while some banks increase their annual card fees, others increase their monthly account management fees, another transferable and second-degree form of taxation affects Hungarian citizens, against which neither the supervisory system nor the government do anything. Meanwhile, he absorbed part of the supervision into the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, whose meaning is also not allowed by this government to go to Parliament, to the plenary session. So the question is: is there going to be a reckoning against the bank victims, or is it really expected that the accounting will begin at least in the bud? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-211	Thank you very much. It's for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the last four years, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken very decisive steps in relation to banks, since the banking sector collecting extra profit was first taxed by a special tax, the bank tax. Then he started the settlement, did he not, in relation to foreign exchange creditors, which affected more than a million people and families in Hungary. In addition, a special, unique form of taxation has been introduced in Europe, in essence, the transaction levy. It is true that these banks have been heavily burdened, especially by the settlement of foreign exchange creditors, which is still to come; this is calculated to cost the banking sector about HUF 1000 billion. This government has simply decided that banks have not been involved in crisis management, and therefore they should be involved, and foreign exchange loans that have been unfairly distributed, with which victims have been cheated, should be returned to them. This is what is happening in Hungary, which is what the parliamentary majority would like with two thirds, for which the laws have been passed in the past. It is not true that the transaction fee affects Hungarian citizens, because it is not paid by Hungarian citizens, but by the State through the Treasury, or by legal entities. Citizens are free of charge in terms of basic cash withdrawals. So it is not true that the questioner claims that the banks will not be accounted for by the government. Yes, it's in the process. Otherwise, we'll have to ask the banks if we want to know what they think.
u2014-10-20-213	Congressman, you have one minute. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-214	Mr President, Dear House, I wanted to hear the Secretary of State's opinion, but it reminds me of a rather deaf conversation, that if a bank, a financial institution, admits that he passed on the transaction fee to the customers, you stand up and say that this is not the case. Who do you want to argue with? Reality? What do you say then about the bank letters received last year by Hungarian self-employed persons, where, until January, an extra face was placed on their bank accounts, their amounts were deducted, stating in the justification that the transaction fee had been levied retroactively for the first 5 or 7 months of the year, which should have been paid by financial institutions. You guys set up a bank tax? Well, it turns out it was passed on by the banks, inserted into the card fees, the monthly account fees. You know that, and the surveillance system knows that. And you stand up here and tell me that's not true? ! At least honor us and the voters behind us by admitting that in Hungary, although on your billboards, you will have the banks accounted for, they are actually negotiating with the Banking Association, which is also acknowledged. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] They have made a pact with them, and they do put the interests of the Banking Association before the interests of the customers. Admit it. [[The president's ringing again.]] This would be a lot easier, and we wouldn't be wasting each other's time. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-215	Mr. Secretary.
u2014-10-20-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I understand it, I'm in court, and now I have to admit what's not real. The politics of Jobbik is very interesting, because when it comes to solving a major social issue, the issue of foreign exchange credentials, then all laws in Parliament will be passed personally, Congressman. This puts a thousand billion burdens on the banking sector and makes this sector fully accountable for this. It then draws out, by its hair, a completely different subject, a much earlier subject, which was also supported by you, the introduction of a transaction fee, and claims that this is the biggest burden on Hungarian citizens now. I think that the accountability of banks on the part of the government is legitimate, factual and just. Please accept that. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-217	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The immediate questions for today's occasion are over, and now the questions are coming. Member László Teleki, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Are you willing to take measures to strengthen regional minority self-governments? Here you go. You have two minutes.
u2014-10-20-218	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz government has repeatedly promised to strengthen the support of national authorities. On the other hand, no progress has been made in terms of funding in recent years, but no role has been taken in coordinating cooperation at local level. [[18.20]] In particular, I find the situation of national authorities at local and regional level particularly saddening. I am convinced that the division of responsibilities between the local self-government and the local minority self-government should be considered, as a result of which the role of minority self-governments should be increased. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State whether they are willing to pay more attention to national authorities at local and county level in the future. The location, infrastructure and operating conditions of the national authorities in the county have not been resolved today, even though regional minority authorities would have a key role to play in achieving cultural and linguistic identity development. However, it is essential to ensure full operational conditions. In the case of Roma, in addition to cultural and linguistic identity, the county level is also important because it is also the responsibility of regional national authorities to ensure equal opportunities for education and employment. It is now clear that regional ethnic authorities also have a role to play in health prevention. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you when you want to deal with these issues specifically. I would also like to have an answer from the Secretary of State as to how the principle of financing task-based support is to be changed, because at the moment the task funding has not been resolved for local minority self-governments, and it has not been resolved mainly for regional authorities, so I would like to ask for your answer in this, too. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-219	State Secretary Bence Rétvári gives an answer. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You know very well that in December 2011 the Parliament adopted the law on the rights of nationalities, which extended the scope of the rights of national governments, which you yourself were concerned with in your speech. According to the former minority law, minority self-governments were only able to carry out their tasks in the areas of closely taken minority cultural autonomy, so minority education and education, local written electronic press, traditional care and public education. On the other hand, under the new rules, it is already possible to fulfil tasks in the fields of social inclusion, social, youth, public employment and urban management and settlement planning. I note that these new tasks were specifically included in the regulation at the request of the Roma ethnic authorities, with the aim of allowing the municipality, in cooperation with the local government, and representing the interests of the Roma nationality, to participate in these extended tasks in the settlement. Consequently, it is possible for local communities and, of course, their cooperation and assistance to be actively involved at county level in solving the above-mentioned tasks, and they have received all the assistance from the government to do so. In this area, activity is indicated by the fact that, thanks to the statutory provision on the rights of nationalities, there has already been a substantial increase in the number of institutions to show the cultural autonomy of individual communities, the number of institutions maintained by national minority authorities has reached 70, and the number of institutions operated by local national authorities is also increasing, which is currently 7 units. Since my time is coming to an end, I would just like to point out that we have also launched a direct application for programmes, summer camps, publications, international relations, which was HUF 314 million. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] In two years, the Roma municipalities received HUF 346 million instead of the previous 316. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-221	Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question with the title "The Evil Shadows Over Sub-Government." It's for the congressman. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Jobbik has always stood up for the real local government, and we have always protested against emptying the municipal task systems. We have supported and will support the creation and strengthening of municipal sub-governments. For Jobbik, all 3200 Hungarian settlements are also a Hungarian citadel in the struggle for national survival, and in this struggle, part-governments? So you're just gonna stick with the medieval metaphor? We think it's kind of a trash can. But now you hear it on more than one occasion? Even though we know from pro-government gentlemen that everything is very beautiful, everything is very good? That they want to eliminate sub-governments on grounds of lack of resources. Stadium constructions and cartel railway constructions that result in extra-profit, which will lead to wonderful luxury palaces, and the 400-metre bypass roads, which are, of course, built by the Public Machine, have to be said in light of this, to refer to a very repulsive lack of money, but in many cases this happens. So I'm asking you if the government guarantees the part government and the resources needed for its existence, whether there is government will. This is the case, for example, in my constituency, Somogytarnóca, which lost its independence 35 years ago, when Barcs became a city of 79, but based on its past, its physical separation, its tradition, we consider it to be the 247th. Somogy County. Unfortunately, Sorsa is not unique, but in her own sadness she symbolizes the abandonment of rural Hungary and the destruction of the country across governments. Or there is a question here that there is no lack of money that is the cause of the elimination of the partial government or its intentions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] but the voter's decision of October 12, which brought out Jobbik, like the spring results, is so to speak, wrong, as a winner here. [[Intruder from the ranks of Fidesz: Hahaha!]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-223	Thank you. Mr Tibor Pogácsák State Secretary. You have two minutes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2014-10-20-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Local governments or sub-governments are important elements of the local government. Although it is a fact that they rarely come into the spotlight, perhaps one of the reasons for this is that they are common in settlements where the settlement itself consists of several separate settlements. The role of the local authorities is important in ensuring that those who are away from the place of birth can be properly taken into account. I myself, as mayor, worked with Monoron, a settlement and part government, Monorierdő, which helped the development of the settlement area. You say that in many places it is heard that these sub-governments would be wanted to be abolished by the government. I can tell you that you have to listen to people who have an influence on this because it's Mötv. clearly allows for the establishment of sub-urban governments, and we are not prepared to amend them. The municipality, the municipality, decides whether to set up a sub-government and decide who will be the head of it and what tasks it will delegate to the sub-government of the settlement. Local government resources, the financial situation of local governments has stabilised in recent years, with loan transfer, task financing and rethinking tasks, ensure that municipalities can operate and operate sub-governments as well. The statement of Congressman that anyone would want to abolish the sub-government in the case of Somogytarnóca because Jobbik won there: I looked at the election results, both in the mayor's election and in the election of municipal representatives, Fidesz got the most [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-225	Dear Parliament, Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources, when will the situation of the staff helping teachers be resolved? When are they gonna get another raise after 2008? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The second Orbán government could not keep its original promise, last year only 60% of the planned wage increase was granted to teachers. The Fidesz-KDNP management only meets the original commitment in four years, so the 10 percent currently due will be given to teachers only from October this year. At the same time, there is a serious deficiency in the fact that staff with non-educating, educational and educational qualifications are still excluded from the wage increase. Nurses, pedagogical assistants, kindergarten and school secretaries, librarians and administrators have not received a penny increase since 2008. In six years, their earnings have lost significantly their value. In fact, many of the school staff also lost their wages due to maintenance changes and reorganisations. There are institutions where the gross salary of medical pedagogical assistants is reduced by 20 percent after the municipal elections. Dear Secretary of State, The work of educators working in public education institutions is extremely important and essential to guarantee quality education. [[18.30]] They take the burdens off the teachers' shoulders, help the children focus on learning. It is unfair and unfair that their work is not recognised, they have not received any wage increases in six years. Their search is now deep beneath the minimum living, many leave the field because they cannot support themselves and their families. Not to mention the intense tension at work that a close coworker gets a raise, and someone doesn't get anything. Dear Secretary of State, When will the position of non-peda-educator-educated teachers be finally settled, when will they receive a wage increase after 2008 again? Thank you.
u2014-10-20-227	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that we are in a very pleasant debate compared to other parliaments in other countries when we talk about the sector in which this government has been able to raise wages, when, for more than ten years before that, the wages of teachers have not increased by a penny; when there is news of cuts and reductions in salaries in other countries; when there is news of cuts in pension benefits in other countries; when tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people work in Hungary after the 2008 crisis that their market employer pays their wages only from Monday to Thursday, and on Friday they work almost free of charge for their employers. On the other hand, in Hungary, the government was able to create a financial basis that started the process of wage increases, salary increases, and politics. In this it was very important that one of the biggest debts of the Hungarian state, which is towards teachers, that their salary has not increased since 2002, we can achieve this in several steps. As the Member said, if we imagine this as a ten-series cake, then the first six slices were given to teachers last year, the next one this year, and they will receive three more slices of this wage increase on 1 September in the coming years, so that we will complete the teacher's wage increase in 4-5 years. I think that everyone here in Parliament can be pleased to have been part of this decision, that teachers have managed to raise their salary in this way, because we would also like to raise the prestige of the teaching field. You know the problems of teacher training. There were years when only a few of them applied to be a physics teacher, so we thought that first we should give the dignity of the teacher's career. And obviously, there are people at school who don't have a higher education, or a secondary education, and they help teachers, but we think that first we need to restore the social authority of teachers. An important part of this is the wage increase, the Klebelsberg Scholarship, which can already be awarded to those who are preparing for a teaching career, and obviously all other groups can take place later. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-229	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Jenő Manninger, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: when and with what technical parameters can the renovation of the South Balaton railway line be completed? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-230	Dear Secretary of State, The renovation of the railway track launched in September this year is also of great importance for the settlements on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, as well as for Keszthely and Nagykanizsa, which concerns the section of line 30 between Lepsény and Szántód-Kőröshegy. This section of the line has not undergone any renovations for nearly 50 years, despite the fact that it has a particularly significant turnover during the summer period. The condition of the track today has deteriorated so much that in many sections the trains could only run at a speed limit of 60 km/h, the delays have been steady, and in terms of driving time it was not possible to compete with the 100 years earlier, which is a huge problem for such a traffic line. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by Nándor Gúr.]] I think it is important to point out that a renovation has now begun, and that the renovation is part of a series that has started with the renovation of the 30a line section between Kelenföld-Székesfehérvár, which has already been completed, is expected to continue with the renewal of the Szántód-Balatongyörgy line section. The long-term goal is to achieve a modern railway track from the Croatian border to Budapest. Dear Minister, In this connection, I ask you: when and what technical parameters are expected to complete the renovation of the track on the southern shore of Lake Balaton? Furthermore, what depends on the next pace, the continuation of the track reconstruction between Szántod and Balatonszentgyörgy? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-231	Thank you very much. Secretary of State János Fónagy responds. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-232	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The No 30 railway running on the southern shore of Lake Balaton in the summer period is indeed the second most important railway line in Hungary. The latest major career upgrade took place nearly 50 years ago. In the context of the current development, the railway track will be renewed in its entirety. From next summer to 60-80 km, trains will be able to travel again at a speed of 100 kilometres per hour on each section between Lepsény and Szántód-Kőröshegy. The rail development is carried out in the New Széchenyi Plan, with the co-financing of the Cohesion Fund as part of the Transport Operational Programme, with a net value of HUF 30 billion. In the area of Siófok, new second track sections ensure the smoothness of rail traffic. In addition, the noise load of the Lake Balaton will be significantly reduced by the fact that a noise shielding wall of about four kilometers in critical places, with a noise and vibration dampening rail bed of about 17 kilometers in length, will be made. By modernising pedestrian crossings and crossings, the level crossing possibilities will also be safer. In order to ensure equal opportunities, platforms are transformed into high platforms at several stops, making it more convenient for passengers to take off and take off. In the section between Lepsény-Szántód-Kőröshegy, the track lock started on 1 September this year, the renovation of the 32 km long section will be completed by the summer of 2015 and will continue with the reconstruction of the 53 km section between the Szántód-Kőröshegy-Balatongyörgy stations. The reconstruction between Kelenföld-Székesfehérvár is expected to reduce the Budapest-Siófok-Zamárdi route by 25 minutes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-233	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development what does the government do to eliminate corruption around driving tests? It's an address. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-234	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, On several occasions, it has been proven that the problems of Hungarian youth are not properly addressed by the government and that the only political force that raises these problems in Parliament is Jobbik. I could mention the maladministration of student loans and student work, the problems surrounding traineeships or language learning, youth unemployment, inadequate support for home creation, and a long list of these issues. I would like to draw the government's attention to a phenomenon like this, which may seem small, but still affects a lot of young people in Hungary. In recent years, I have received several personal requests regarding the fact that, before the driving licence, before the tests required for obtaining the licence, the examiners are in many cases given a signal that the examiner will only be allowed to pass the exam if a certain amount of money is paid. I would like to make it clear in advance that, of course, I do not want to generalise, because these crimes only affect some of the people working in the field, but they also undermine the reputation of decent majority educators and examiners. At the same time, corruption in this area has become so distraught that it is often said, not even in flower language, but openly, what is the price of a successful exam. In fact, some of the failures are not necessarily due to the inadequacy of the learners, but the fact that often the examiner who collaborates with the instructor tries to generate extra income. Unfortunately, because of the situation that has arisen, there is also a risk that many people will be deterred from obtaining a licence, or even after much more attempts, they will only be able to obtain a licence, which is, of course, a serious additional burden for young people or their families in addition to the otherwise inexpensive procedure. In addition, it is quite demoralizing that a Hungarian youth should encounter such corruption phenomena at the beginning of the growing-up period. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State what steps have been taken so far to put an end to this outrageous practice. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-235	Thank you very much. It's time for Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-236	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The electronic systems introduced in the training of drivers and thereafter in the examination since 2010 have significantly increased the control clearance of the transport authority. Unfortunately, however, you are debating legitimate questions on your question, since police and court proceedings that have come up recently and have become known to the general public prove that corruption is in place in this area. [[18.40]] At the same time, these procedures show that incentives for corruption are out of the knowledge of the examiner, and it is the instructor who actually benefits further by this method. We therefore want to pay particular attention to the monitoring of teaching activities and the prevention of corruption. Checking driver examiners? in line with the relevant EU Directive? at least 8 hours per year, but in fact several times. Driver examiners may continue their activities only if they participate in an annual training course. One of the aims of this is to improve the ethical requirements of the examination. In addition, driver examiners, who are also public service officials, must undergo compulsory training, including learning about the ethics of public service officials and the fight against corruption. By the way, based on the statistics available to us, the number of testers is constantly increasing compared to previous years, there is no evidence that students are afraid of obtaining a license. At the same time, the swift and complete elimination of the corruption phenomena that you have referred to is our joint task and interest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-237	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President of the Parliament, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister a question: "The rightful demand for the ban on job accumulation in politics is almost complete. The question will be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén on behalf of the Prime Minister. Congressman Novak, please.
u2014-10-20-238	Thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, His old demand for Jobbik Hungary is the abolition of the most widespread, unfortunately legitimized form of political crime, the accumulation of political jobs, because it is not acceptable that, in addition to the parliamentary representation, which is supposed to be the main job, public money is taken out at other addresses, so that, of course, it is not possible to perform those tasks fairly at the same time. Therefore Jobbik, taking the lead as a good example, lived with self-limitation, unfortunately we were the only party whose fathers did not take on the position of mayor or municipal representatives, in all other parties, even in the LMP, there was a parliamentary representative who later became mayor. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: It is easy for those who are not elected to do so.]] However, under the pressure of Jobbik, as of 2014, parliamentary representatives cannot be mayors and representatives of local governments, leaders of county and district government offices either, although the Fidesz has previously voted against these proposals, but in time our sowing is only ripe, but not all. The public outrage was caused by the public remuneration of ministerial Commissioners, especially for those who are members of Parliament at the same time. We believe that this remaining method of job accumulation of politicians must be prohibited by law, as the government is unable to show restraint. So my question is whether they are willing to give up these jobs or not to expect anything good after the elections. Please also inform me of the number of ministerial commissioners we have at the moment, how justified this is, the elimination and closure of the remaining loophole of this political stockpiling, so that we can completely put an end to the job accumulation of politicians, whether it is the combined performance of the role of the Minister's and Parliamentary Representatives, or rather the taking of salaries at the same time. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-239	Thank you very much. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, please.
u2014-10-20-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, in response to your question, under the current law, the Minister may appoint a Minister for a priority task under normative instructions. A total of 27 ministerial commissioners are currently operating under this law, of whom four are Members of Parliament, who receive a deputy State Secretary's salary for the performance of their activities. 5 persons will receive remuneration below the ceiling described above and 3 persons will carry out their activities without remuneration. So much for facts. But, Congressman, I don't really understand the point of your question, and then I'm not even talking about talking about talking about political crime, so let's just say, rhetorically, it's an unrealistic exaggeration. I don't understand because? Let's take a fictitious example. Like, I'm the Minister of Culture? I see Mr. Secretary Fisherman? And there is, say, a foreign, modern art exhibition, which is an event of national importance, and I appoint you as the most suitable person, Mr János Halász. Why do you feel this is political crime? If I can make him Minister, say, Deputy Secretary of State, then why can't I appoint him Secretary of State? If I can make him more, why can't I just make him the less? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-241	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, That concludes the questions, and now we will continue our work. Following the 2013 LXVII fee for motorways, highways and main roads. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The submission is T/1124. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Report by the Economic Committee as designated committee on the detailed debate T/1124/4. was given to them. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is T/1124/6. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/1124/7. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, rapporteur of the committee. With all due respect, you have a maximum of 15 minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since there was no debate in the Legislative Committee, I believe that I will not reach 15 minutes, and I will have much less to say that we felt it was important to say here too, because we trust that the consensus that was shown in the committee meeting between the parties present will be reached in this debate and later in the vote and in this Chamber. For this reason, at our meeting on 16 October, we adopted not only the amendment, the amendment, the law before us, but also its summary amendment proposal and its summary report with complete unanimity. We did this because the goal that the law is about now is fair and fair, because, as of 1 July 2013, the new toll changed road use, the way toll payment itself, and, of course, also the related charging procedures and monitoring. Since July 2013, there have been two options, two ways to pay the fee, one to buy an on-board device and the other to buy the destination ticket. The disadvantage of the latter is that it can only be used on the route specified therein or only from the date after its redemption. I think that the problem arose here somewhere, because in the previous system, road users did not replace toll rights in proportion to the journey they took, but for a given period, so many have used the new route in the last year and a half, in accordance with previous bad practice, and often? Maybe with a reasonable explanation, but? have deviated from the route specified in the destination ticket. Technically, the paradox was that the fine had been fully imposed, so that the carriers actually paid the toll, so they actually had to pay the fine twice. [[18.50]] The bill before us seeks to remedy this in practice and would give carriers the opportunity to recover the fines imposed subsequently. Therefore, all those who have infringed the above provision between 1 July 2013 and 31 March 2014 may submit an application to the National Toll Payment Ltd. and may be exempted from the fine on this basis. The main task of submitting the application is to pay the destination ticket within eight hours of the sighting and the entitlement thus redeemed has not been validated on another occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, Hundreds of carriers are waiting for this amendment, this fair amendment, to improve the Hungarian toll network, the Hungarian toll payment practice, and make it even more European and even more flexible. I need your support on this. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. ? It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-243	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] Secretary of State says yes. It's for the Secretary of State Major. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-244	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee? Having regard to the proposal from the Commission to close the detailed discussion of the Economic Committee, put forward a comprehensive amendment to the bill, which includes clarification in wording and technical clarification, helping to improve the future application of the law. On this basis, the summarised amendment is in line with the government's position. In this regard, I would ask the honourable Parliament to support the summarised amendment. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-245	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, that you will have nine minutes and 20 seconds at the most to say that if you want to take advantage of this at the time. [[Dr. János Fónagy: No, thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to point out that the designated Economic Committee does not wish to put forward a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is therefore up to the Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First, Congressman Pál Völner, Fidesz, please.
u2014-10-20-246	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The amendments to the bill before us are almost exclusively a clarification of a coherent, editorial clarification or of a legal nature. One thing is worth highlighting, and this is that the 12 thousand HUF application fee, which the road user has to pay for the launch of the amnesty procedure, includes traffic tax, as amended. The content of the amendment was also agreed by the Legislative Committee. I would like to mention that the bill provides an amnesty to road users who are not properly used for road use by the National Toll Payment Company. By the way, I was legally fined. In two cases, the fine refund procedure may be proposed. The first time someone failed to buy the destination ticket in advance for the particular section of the road, but they did so afterwards. And the other, if he bought the ticket, but he wasn't on the pre-arranged section of the road, but for cost reduction or other reasons, he went off the road and, as such, broke the law. In both cases, it is clear that the purpose of the road user was not to avoid tolls, so the pursuit of enforcement behaviour is not questionable. As you know, with the introduction of the e-toll, the former injustice has ceased to exist that those who have used the road more have paid as much as those who have paid less. The e-toll is proportional to kilometers, so it is fair to both foreign and domestic carriers: those who use the road more will destroy more, so they pay more. For the previous time-based system, the Eurovignette Directive did not allow an amount of EUR 11 per day to exceed tolling, and in this calculation mode actual road maintenance and installation costs are the basis for setting. The new system was naturally not free from child diseases, the consequences of which are corrected by this bill, which, together with the above amendments, I believe, is worth supporting. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2014-10-20-247	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa's speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-248	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It is really interesting that, one year after the introduction, the government and the individual Member are willing to correct the mistakes that many of us said before the introduction, not just us, the professional organisations, in principle. It is very instructive to use the words that Mr Péter Csizi said to this amendment that this is fair and fair. Does that mean it's the original law? Like we said? It was not fair and it was not fair, because there is a need for this about two billion-dollar reimbursement correction, which means the existence of a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, because it came to the brink of bankruptcy with this unfair and unfair collection of road tolls. If we could make a detour? Mr. President, won't you blame me? , you are talking about tolls for use, and I would like to talk a little bit about the proposal for an IQ, because this well-intentioned and supported amendment was tabled at such a level that it was necessary to add even the amendments that are currently on the agenda, because it was not clear, it was not certain that it would become useful. It is a special epochal for my ears, what Pál Völner has now said by himself, former Secretary of State, that the introduction of this toll for use was not free of child diseases. It wasn't so free that it simply missed the test run before it was introduced. So the introduction of such a system, which generates about HUF 100 billion a year for the cash register, means so much for road users, good, I know that more than half of it is paid by foreigners, so there is no need to feel sorry for foreigners, but it should have been given at least one test run. It's not part of the baby's disease. It's a mistake in the preparation. Then the other thing is that the control system wasn't built properly. Building a fund based on control is not a fair control system, more than a child's disease, but I am very pleased that at least this very fine word has been said by Mr President, that it is a child's disease. Then another of these basic problems was that the audit of the contributors could not happen until the departure, there was no preparation time, there was not enough on-board equipment in the country. So anyone who wanted to enter this had to hold on after the introduction to access these equipment, because it simply wasn't enough physically. There was no way to know how to buy a destination ticket. Carriers without on-board equipment may carry such a ticket. So, in the first few weeks' experience, I feel that it has been a major failure, and in view of these, the chaos that can be seen as complete, for example, as regards the status of agricultural vehicles and tow vehicles, has evolved over time. This correction, which creates a legal basis for the possibility of reimbursement, was significantly delayed. Therefore, the MSZP indicated earlier that, compared to the introduction on 1 July 2013, the regulation was significantly delayed, so that companies operating trucks of more than 3.5 tonnes could not properly prepare themselves, could not plan with the new toll rate, nor did they have the knowledge of toll road sections. So, in view of all of this, there is, of course, agreement that we will vote in favour of this corrective proposal, but returning to the pro-government comments that this proposal is fair and fair, it would have been very good if the original proposal had been fair and fair, and not only subsequently the IQ proposal would have been accepted, but it could have been done in the first place. So, once again, congratulations, this must be done. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[19.00]]
u2014-10-20-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju is next, independent. Congressman, I would like to remind you that you have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-250	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear House, I think that there is a proposal before us that must be supported, because it gives us the opportunity to correct the anomalies that have arisen in connection with the introduction and to create the conditions for this reimbursement for operators involved in farming and the economy. This should be done accordingly. I am essentially glad that you have thought about all the circumstances that have been associated with the introduction and have put farmers at a disadvantage in the first stage, so you want to correct it. At the same time, however, I would like to draw attention to the fact that if, as an experience, the introduction of such a large system is ahead of us, it must also be taken to heart that before it is introduced, what anomalies have marked the whole thing, that it has been done with multiple design choices and haste, and that this could have happened because of the multiple time delays and delays that have led to the implementation of this amendment. In addition, during that period, we felt that the government was actively seeking to find a suitable partner for the introduction period, the phase of construction, for a very many billion forints. It seems that this may be due back today, as the necessary partner has been found, the mistakes have been made, but it needs to be corrected. Accordingly, I will support your presentation. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-251	Thank you very much. We now have the speeches of Members who have asked for a normal word. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The LMP also supports the proposal, but we would also like to draw attention to the fact that once again there is a hasty correction of a system that is not well thought out, well implemented. This is a major problem because during today, I asked the Minister for National Development what would happen to the small rural roads, what would happen to the access roads, what would happen to the four-digit, three-digit roads, and that there was a recurring problem that there was not enough resources. It would be good if the roads... What has been said in response to the fact that European Union funds can best develop transit routes...? would be reduced in the country. It would be good if these collections could serve to transfer substantial resources to what there is no EU funding. The good thing would be that this regulation would allow at least this weekend the roads to be returned to families, and charging would help to make the most of the resources available for the renovation and maintenance of small and medium-sized roads in rural areas. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although we support the proposal and agree with the correction, this could have been partly avoided by making a more informed decision, and in part it would be important that the following legislative amendments serve as a means of bringing more resources into the budget for the maintenance of small roads. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-253	Thank you very much. Speak up, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-254	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This bill also shows that prior social dialogue cannot be saved in legislation. If there had been normal preparation, this amendment would not be necessary now. However, in the light of today's practice of legislation, it is also a result that professional dialogue and, on the basis of this, the amendment will be made at least ex post. We also believe that it was a mistake that there was no meaningful test period, because in many cases a fine was imposed on bona fide carriers, largely because of lack of practice and a lack of knowledge of the system. Of course, this involves the complexity of the system. However, the amount of fines imposed may, in some cases, jeopardise the operation of transport undertakings, and therefore, it is considered appropriate to provide for the remission of fines in the case of fined carriers, but in the case of bona fide carriers, not including carriers for whom the deliberate avoidance of payment of tolls can be recognised. As my fellow Member has said, LMP supports this amendment of the law, as the purpose of the amendment is to waive the penalties imposed on individual bona fide users resulting from the system's malfunctions, but we believe that this issue is not solved at all, and even if it has already started, the government should continue to consult professional and social organisations and develop an effective e-toll system that will ensure that the objectives are achieved. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-255	Thank you very much. This is the address of Congressman László Kiss, MSZP. Here.
u2014-10-20-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I do not want to repeat anyone, but it is absolutely important to say that, as the predecessor of this legislation, the government has imposed one of Europe's most expensive tolls on domestic carriers, so a tribute which is now partially recaptured. This sac is worth millions of forints, which the government will now take back. However, to say positive, I think it is okay that this legislation is here before us. The problem is that many other government failures are not recognised by the second or third Orbán government. The problem is not that it is here, because at last there is a ministry that has admitted that the system it operates has similar flaws, which the opposition, the MSZP, has said. The problem is that because of many of our other criticisms, you have not yet removed a similar consistency. That is why I urge you to change all your previous bad practices in this area, and even in other areas, to make all the mistakes here, because I think there is consensus in this House that if your previous bad practices are corrected, we will certainly support this, as we support this proposal now. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-257	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I don't see any more applicants. I'm going to ask you if you still want to use your speaking rights in the remaining timeframe. [[For signal:]] Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary, of course, supports this amendment, because, as has been said here by the other parties, we believe so, and at a written question and press conference we have already indicated to the government that there are problems with the system. We have asked for government measures to be taken in this regard, and we can see that then we can hope, perhaps also to signal the Jobbik, but as you have noticed, we are indeed changing that. The law is basically an amending, complementary law supplementing the Toll Act with transitional provisions. The concept is based on the replacement of the previous time-based toll system by the system proportional to the journey taken from 1 July 2013. Since then, fees can be paid either with a pre-changed route ticket or with a built-in on-board device. The problem was that, partly because of the old nerves, partly because of the carelessness, the ticket was changed or only afterwards, and in other cases, for some reason, they strayed from the ticket and so more fines were made in the new system than in previous years. This has particularly affected foreign resident carriers who have not been sufficiently prepared for the specific features of the new payment system. Therefore, the essence of the concept is that anyone who has been fined between 1 July 2013 and 31 March 2014 will waive the amount of the fine; will he comply with the conditions laid down by law? So here we are also pleased that this is not automatic, but that all kinds of paper and other documents must be submitted and that they should take the initiative to release these things and then be exempt from fines. [[19.10]] But did we draw attention? And would I like to repeat it now, regardless of whether we support this law? We would also like to extend the system proportional to the journey we took, namely passenger cars. That's important, isn't it? You guys know that, too? On 1 January 2012, a rather popular four-day license sticker with a price of HUF 1650 was abolished among motorway users. Until 1 January 2011, it was also possible to redeem one day's entitlement at a price of HUF 1170. At present, the cheapest option is to redeem the weekly entitlement to HUF 2975, which is actually ten days old, which is necessary even if the required section of the road is used on one occasion. It is therefore not difficult to see that the conversion of the fee structure as set out above is significantly negative for all those who wanted to use the required road sections on a case-by-case basis, for example for family trips. As a result of the measures, the load on the lower sections of the road has increased by magnitude, which, as appropriate, has greatly increased the risk of accidents, not to mention the deterioration of the comforts and health risks of people living in settlements near such lower roads. The question therefore rightly arises as to whether the negative effects of the conversion of the tariff structure on a mass scale are worth the expected surplus revenue of the budget. Obviously not, since it is morally wrong to face material benefits with the potential to increase health and accident risks. And it is also possible that this would not result in a reduction in revenue, but rather an increase in revenue, since car owners who have so far, let us say, avoided motorways precisely because they wanted to use a smaller section of the road, and they were on a lower route, if we developed a system proportional to the road, of course, a proportionate system, then they would prefer to use motorways, and everyone would be better off, and the government might be able to generate even more revenue. So, to sum up once again: we support the amendment, we are pleased that the government has taken action on this matter so quickly, but we would like to consider extending it to passenger cars as well. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-259	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] No. In that case, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to react now, and I therefore conclude that this can now be concluded. Dear Parliament, The votes will take place at our next meeting. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. Act No 1 and CLXXXIV of 2005 on the professional investigation of accidents and other incidents in air, rail and water transport General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Councilman Pál Völner, Fidesz, a separate motion by Mr T/1561. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be conducted by the Economic Committee as a designated committee. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-260	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us is necessary to ensure that our country fully complies with Council Directive 2004/49/EC in the management of railway infrastructure, because the EU has launched infringement proceedings against our country due to a number of interpretation disputes. As you know, the European Union is a priority and supportive driver for rail transport, which is also reflected in the transport proposal for the 2014-2020 budget period. Within the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, Hungary can spend more than HUF 500 billion on railway development by the end of the decade. The safety and security of seamless cross-border rail transport is indeed a matter of vital importance for countries where borders have actually ceased physically and there is a strong economic link, such as for EU countries. The European Council adopted its general approach to new rail safety rules almost exactly one year ago, on 11 October 2013. The revised Directive, known as the Fourth Railway Package, which is a recast of the 2004 Railway Safety Directive, provides for a centralised safety certification system for EU railway undertakings. On the other hand, the Council proposed a double certification scheme whereby a single safety certificate would be issued. EU legislation establishing a single European railway area gave Member States until 16 June 2015 time to transpose it into their own legal environment, which is why it is also necessary to update domestic rail legislation. In addition to the remaining elements, novelties such as the independence of the infrastructure manager's basic function, the financial balance of the infrastructure manager, the Commission's control of the border traffic agreements and the conclusion of the infrastructure manager's contract for five years will be introduced. It should be borne in mind that there is no derogation from EU principles, but certain conceptual elements can be modified. Later on, the task of creating the railway package will be an additional task. The main elements are the amendment of the Interoperability Directive and the Railway Safety Directive, the involvement of the European Railway Agency, the liberalisation of passenger transport and the organisational separation of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. compromises have already been reached between EU legislators and Member States on the package, but there is still a lion's share of the work to be done. As you can see, there is a legislative harmonisation process taking place between different railway regulatory systems in the Member States, some of which are also covered by the above directive, which covers the location and tasks of the railway safety authority. According to the Directive, Member States have so far developed their own safety rules and standards on the basis of national technical and operational approaches, in particular according to their national guidelines. At the same time, differences in principles, methods and cultures have made it difficult to remove technical barriers and to create international transport services. Dissolving misunderstandings is necessary in three areas. The first point concerns the independence of railway safety oversight. Article 16 (1) of the Directive requires Member States to establish a safety authority supervising rail transport, which must be legally and legally independent of railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and purchasing units for decision-making purposes. In Hungary, the legal institution of the purchasing unit is unknown, but according to previous arguments of the Ministry of National Development, CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. Law 4 as amended, effective from 7 August 2012 Paragraph 4 of the directive also covers so-called purchasing units, given that it specifies more than the scope of Article 16 (1) of the Directive. However, this argument was not accepted by the Commission, which is why it is necessary to state more specifically at the legislative level that the national safety authority is also independent of purchasing units. The provision should be applied in Hungary in the event of the establishment of a separation of the State-owned MÁV to the national infrastructure manager, and a holding structure, which is part of a central service organisation, should be established in Hungary. This rule would also rule out the possibility for DG Procurement and Supply to supply the MÁV's purchases. The second correction concerns the requirement of the Commission Directive that the safety authority may at any time request technical assistance from infrastructure managers, railway undertakings or other qualified bodies in the performance of its tasks. According to the Commission, the Railway Act is 81. § (1) does not provide this with sufficient precision, because it only requires the obligation to provide assistance attached to the authority's powers of control, even though the directive uses the word. Therefore, the proposal complements the Railway Act in line with the above comments. The third problem addressed in the Commission's formal request concerns compliance with the Directive's obligation to notify accidents and incidents. [[19.20]] It does not provide sufficient precision to this effect, as it only provides for the obligation to provide assistance attached to the authority's powers of control, even though the Directive uses the word "a' at any time. Therefore, the proposal complements the Railway Act in line with the above comments. The third problem addressed in the Commission's formal request concerns compliance with the Directive's obligation to notify accidents and incidents. (19.20) The Commission considers that the safety authority is not obliged by the law to make such a notification, so the Commission considered that the Hungarian safety authority was not subject to the obligation to report the accident information to the investigating body that it had received in the course of its duties or supervision. The proposal therefore complements the law as requested by the Commission. I would like to remind you that, in this case, a similar call from the Union was made not only to our country but also to Estonia and Greece. In my opinion, with this bill, we are clarifying a misinterpretation of the law, which is also in our interest, because it is an economic advantage for us, too, if foreign rail traffic does not encounter problems arising from different regulations. In view of the above, I ask this House to support my proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-261	Thank you very much. I'll ask if anyone wants to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] It's for the Secretary of State Major. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-262	The aim of the bill is to transpose the necessary amendments and additions to Hungarian law in order to bring the EU Railway Safety Directive into full legal harmonisation. The changes make it possible to close the infringement procedure launched by the European Commission last year. The bill contains amendments to two laws, as mentioned by the author. The first, the amendment to the Railway Transport Act, is justified by the Commission's position in Article 16 (1) of the Railway Safety Directive: the provision provides for the establishment of a safety authority by the Member States, which must be independent of railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and so-called purchasing units, both organisationally and legally and in its decision-making. In today's Hungarian railway organization? Like we just heard? the purchasing unit does not appear as an independent entity and therefore the rail law does not include the independence criterion specifically applicable to this organisation. However, in view of the fact that the purchasing unit may appear as an independent entity in the future, it is necessary to include the criterion of independence from the purchasing unit in order to effectively close the infringement procedure initiated by the Commission. The Commission also objected to the transposition of Article 17 (1) of the Directive. In their view, the Railway Act does not provide for the right of the safety authority to use technical assistance, as it only covers the authority's control powers in the current domestic legislation, while the Directive explicitly states that the authority may at any time request technical assistance. On the basis of the Commission's comments, the draft law contains Article 80 of the Railway Act in order to transpose the Directive as required. In addition to the provisions of Section 5 of the Act, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of the provisions of Article 4 of the Treaty. The amendment of the law on the professional investigation of accidents in air, rail and water transport and other traffic events is necessary because the Commission has objected to the inadequate transposition of Article 21 (3) of the Directive. According to this, accidents and incidents shall be reported without delay by railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and, where appropriate, by the safety authority to an inspection body. The Kbtv. at present, it does not really require the safety authority to make such a notification, but domestic official practice fully complies with the Directive. However, from the point of view of legislative transposition, this is not enough for the Commission of the Union, and we therefore support the amendment of the law, including the addition to the Commission's comments. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I would like to ask you to contribute, with the support and acceptance of the legislative amendment proposal, so that the infringement procedure against Hungary can be completed as soon as possible. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-263	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Congressman Roland, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-264	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill in front of this House? Did my colleague, Mr Pál Völner, and the Secretary of State, say that? This debate gives us a good opportunity to clarify some of the concepts that are known in the bill, and to look more closely at the situation of railway safety in Hungary. The National Transport Authority is responsible for railway safety, so this organisation, including the Railway Department, performs the functions of the organisation referred to in the law as the Railway Safety Authority. The railway undertaking and the railway undertaking shall have a safety management system that enables the achievement of the common safety objectives, complies with national safety rules, complies with the technical specifications enabling interoperability, complies with the requirements for the application of common safety methods, complies with the requirements laid down for the safety management system and its essential elements. Safety management systems should allow the railway undertaking and the railway undertaking to take into account all the risks arising from their activities, maintenance, acquisition of materials and employment in another legal relationship for the work of persons. The railway undertaking and the integrated railway company shall establish their safety management system in such a way as to take into account the risks of the activities of the railway undertaking and the international grouping and to enable them to carry out their activities in accordance with the national safety rules and the railway safety certificate. The company is also responsible for the quality of training for workers in railway safety jobs. Hungary has a railway network of 8,000 kilometres, so it is one of the ten largest railway networks in the world, with a similar network density for Germany. On the other hand, on the basis of an international survey of railway safety in 2012, the Hungarian railway is among the 24 European countries investigated? Unfortunately? The enthusiast is located in 22nd place. This type of fixed-track transport is only in Portugal and Bulgaria in worse condition than we are. The railways have been ranked according to three aspects: the extent of use, the quality of service and safety. Hungary has failed in terms of safety, although the situation is worse in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Romania. Overall, the technical state of the Hungarian railway network is medium, so there is plenty of work to be done in the field of railway safety, and the directive to which this bill also intends to comply can be an incentive to develop them. Dear Parliament, In the development of MÁV's lines, towing vehicles and safety equipment, several thousand billion HUF lags have accumulated over the past decades. Only this data shows why a comprehensive reform of the MÁV is needed as soon as possible. In 2013, there were 2,500 operational security incidents at the MÁV, which has been falling happily since 2007. At the time of the change of regime, this figure amounted to 6500, 4500 in 2000, and 3100 in 2010. In order to further reduce these figures, the Railway Safety Authority should be strengthened, which has already been done by the Rail Transport Act in line with EU standards. Now, after consulting the competent bodies of the EU, we need to introduce some clarification. I ask all of you to support this, this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.30]]
u2014-10-20-265	Thank you very much. Mr István Józsa's speech, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The MSZP fraction will be a partner in the adoption of these legislative proposals, even because a long enough learning process, a breach procedure, might end. I think that we have all been very interested in hearing Mr Major General's professionally well-founded contribution. In view of this, it is not understandable that he or the government is not the author of this proposal, but, as an individual representative, Dr. Pál Völner is a Fidesz Member of Parliament. The fact that the bill essentially implements amendments to the law on rail transport for harmonisation purposes, and that the justification for this is not in question for a moment, will not be shaken by the comments of Mr Mengyi Roland, who is talking about falling events, which are very rightly falling. If, say, you divide these numbers by tonne-kilometres, it might look a little different, but the reduction in negative events measured in absolute terms is certainly welcome, and we hope that the adoption of this bill will also contribute to the safer operation of the railway. At the same time, the previous speakers are also right that it is not only a regulatory issue that railways are able to operate safely. This also depends very much on the technical state of play, and in this respect there is a real need for development and modernisation. It is difficult to understand why tenders for the past few years have not yet been made available, why a series of security-enhancing measures could not be launched, the need for which neither of us has any doubt. Is it equally important? And this, I think, is also related to the financial recognition of the workers? What quality is the knowledge of the railwaymen, that they are only tested unilaterally, and? I'm sorry about the vulgar wording, but has that been in the public address for the past few weeks? they are fired from the exam in large numbers, or they are also taught, not only at their own expense, but also at the appropriate level of training and appropriate hours, so that they not only have to take an exam but also have the opportunity to acquire higher knowledge. Returning to the bill before us, it is difficult to understand why the bill was not submitted by the government, despite the fact that the European Commission is clearly addressed by the Government of Hungary to the reasoned opinion sent in the infringement procedure. The reasons for this are not mentioned in the bill. The government's legislative programme includes, with a deadline for submission in October 2014, a large, comprehensive amendment to the Railway Act. The problems raised in this regard could be adequately addressed by the government and thus also help to close the infringement procedure. On 7 October this year, the Government submitted the Air Transport Act and the Kvvt to Parliament 12 days after the European Commission's reasoned opinion was issued. a bill consisting of amendments to its provisions for harmonisation purposes, which is currently under the parliamentary negotiation process. The problem arising from the infringement procedure referred to in this bill could have been adequately addressed by the government in this proposal. So it's hard to understand why they didn't include it, although professional readiness, as the representative of the government has said, is there. In view of all this, the MSZP supports the adoption of the bill in order to make legislative harmonisation amendments. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the fact that the credibility of legislative amendments for harmonisation purposes, the professional merits and the professionalism of such proposals, if they are not submitted to Parliament as an independent motion, but are submitted by the government. We therefore appreciate the performance of Mr Pál Völner, but we would have preferred to see the amendment of the Railway Act before the House in an edited version, as set out in the legislative law, and in this context it could also change these railway safety issues in its structure. These can, of course, be considered as benevolent excuses, but in fact, they continue to pursue the incorrect legislative practice of the last four years, which Mr Speaker has also challenged, when the government does not put forward the professional laws, in accordance with the legislative law, within the framework of appropriate consultations and professional guarantees, but the individual representatives' proposals continue to be submitted to the House. It would be very good to leave this practice for professional presentations of this weight and to see the government's proposals here later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-20-267	Thank you very much. Appreciation for words of appreciation. Hopefully, Congressman Völner won't suffer any damage. Consequently, we are now continuing our work. I will ask if someone from the KDNP Group wishes to present their group's position. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate like that. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-268	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The last time we discussed a similar change was a week ago, when legislation came here on the basis of EU directives and Council decisions, citing harmonisation. Jobbik has said from the beginning that this is not why we like to amend legislation, or that this does not affect us when we say that we support it or do not support it. It is not primarily about the European Union recommendation, but about whether this legislation will serve a good purpose in Hungary, whether it fits into the Hungarian legislative system, harmonises with Hungarian legislation, and whether it is really in the interest of the Hungarian society to make the changes that are included in these recommendations. That is why we approach this issue primarily on these grounds. And which are related to road safety and will indeed strengthen the safety of this, we say that it is useful for Hungarian society, because? as we have stressed so many times in this Parliamentary Chamber? Jobbik is a party to the order, and we are all suggestions from whoever that strengthens order, public order, public security, safety and, where appropriate, the safety of transport in Hungary, we always support it. So we are not looking at European Union directives or Council directives when we adopt our position in this. In the present case, are the rules for rail transport on the one hand, or is this law being amended? So the traffic itself doesn't change? However, an important stage governing the operation of the safety authority or the management body is to be clarified in this respect. We fully agree with this, because it is a fundamental requirement that if a person, as a safety authority, carried out a check-up work or subsequently discovered whose fault an accident occurred, the reasons for which an accident occurred, which would result in an administrative action being taken, it would obviously come out strange that if this authority, which is investigating, which reveals findings, would be in any context with the bodies that are active in rail traffic. [[19.40]] So either rail transport, the railway company, the railway undertaking or the purchasing units would have any connection, then this would be very strange. So obviously there is a conflict of interest that requires a change in this legislation. So we must also avoid the appearance of conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest, and in this case there must be no legal, organisational or decision-making relationship between the safety authority, the transport administration organisation and other contributors or other railway companies which perform other tasks. So from this point of view, we consider this to be very important. 2 is equally important. It is also stated in Section 2 of the Transport Authority's right to request the railway undertaking, the railway undertaking or any other body which deals with this, as regards technical assistance, of course, it is appropriate that we support this as well. The following legislation, which has changed, is legislation on the professional investigation of air, rail and water accidents and other transport incidents. We also agree with this amendment, but let me point out here that the last time we discussed the amendment of the same legislation was a week ago. It would therefore be more appropriate, from a legislative point of view, if these were indeed to appear in one legislation, to be discussed at the same time by Parliament, rather than to amend a given piece of legislation every week, since it will not be as good in any way. Obviously, when we see the laws to be amended together, their paragraphs, people can better prepare for them, so, where appropriate, the functioning of Parliament, and the legislation adopted, it is probably better not to discuss them every week, separately, in detail, but at the same time. This is supported by the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-269	Thank you very much. I will ask if someone from the LMP Group wishes to present the group's position. [[For signal:]] No. This means that we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I'll see if anyone wants to live with that. [[For signal:]] Congressman Varju says yes. In that case, you have the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-270	Thank you very much. We have put ourselves in a very specific position, Mr President, because we have before us a proposal that is clearly supported in terms of harmonisation of EU law. This has led to the fact that my better fellow Member has even had to apologize for the fact that, by chance, there is a bill that they must also support. After all, in this form, we are talking about a condition for the use of existing legal relations, financial relations and European Union development resources, in which the government has been stalling for a long time, for various reasons. But, if under special circumstances, with an individual amendment, it ends. This harmonisation will take place and, accordingly, I support this initiative for my part. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the independent.]]
u2014-10-20-271	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches if someone so requests. [[There's no candidate.]] He doesn't need it. In this case, they will continue... [[For signal:]] Aha! I can see it on my screen now; I'm sorry, Congressman. Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik, would like to speak. You have two minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I urge you not to let my fellow Member Völner have any trouble with this, yes, we support your presentation. European Community law has developed four railway packages to regulate rail transport, but because of the correct transposition and non-application of Directive 2004/49 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Commission will 2013/2267. He has opened infringement proceedings against our country. This made it necessary to amend the law that we are now discussing. I say to my fellow Member, Mr Varju, that Jobbik not only considers the proposal to be admissible because of this, but also because of the support of sound Hungarian national interests. An important transport policy requirement is to increase the share of energy and environmental modes of transport in the division of labour, for example the rail sector with low specific negative externalities, although the amendment only has an indirect impact for this purpose, since point 1 only clarifies that the national safety authority must be independent at all levels from railway undertakings, infrastructure managers and purchasing units. Point 2 clearly states that the national safety authority may request technical assistance from railway undertakings or infrastructure managers at any time beyond the control powers. Point 3 is in fact tightened by the 2005/ CLXXXIV on the professional investigation of air, rail, water transport accidents and other transport incidents. Law. Jobbik can't find a problem in this, as one of the important segments of competitive rail services is road safety. In Hungary, the total cost of traffic accidents is, by the way, around HUF 400-500 billion per year, which represents 1.5 per cent of GDP, with lower rates in Romania and Bulgaria alone. Although the safety of fixed-track transport is even higher due to its regulation, in a country with a track length of 7,700 km, a gateway of 5649 levels, we can say that for these reasons we can support the amendment. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-273	Dear Parliament, A further two-minute speech is possible. [[There's no candidate.]] [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. In this case, there may be further speeches by Members. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. (No applicants. ) I'll say no. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Pál Völner if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to answer. In this case, Honourable Parliament, it is possible to submit amendments, subject to public holidays, on Monday 27 October at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law amending Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, which is necessary to better protect children and vulnerable persons, will follow. Member Gabriella Selmeczi and Mr Erik Bánki, Fidesz, a separate motion by Mr T/1328. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the rapporteur on the agenda. Congresswoman, please.
u2014-10-20-274	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The paedophile case, which broke out in the summer, revealed that there may still be sexually motivated crimes against minors whose perpetrators cannot be punished by the justice system, because the crime has lapsed because of the regulation in force. One of the main reasons or characteristics of these crimes is that the victim often becomes in such a state after decades, well after his age, he is in such a state of mind to talk about the actions that have been committed to his injury. We have already tightened the criminal code, as we have touched the statute of limitations and said that the victim, i.e. until the age of 18 and until the age of the child, rests on these crimes, so the limitation period started to tick after the age of 18. [[19.50]] But this case has shown that this regulation is not enough, it must be tightened up. Therefore, in this independent motion, tabled by my colleague Erik Bánki, we have taken into account that the sexually motivated crime committed to harm minors is actually one of the most repulsive crimes. If this comes out, there shouldn't be any statute of limitations. So people who think about it know, for the future, that even if their actions are revealed 10-20-30-40 years from now, they should still be punishable. By the way, Germany has also dealt with this issue now to bring up a foreign example. In September, at the end of the summer, we read that they, too, tighten the statute of limitations quite seriously and hard. So this is not only a problem for us, but also in other countries. Therefore, in order to ensure that, in future, the statute of limitations does not prevent those perpetrators from being held liable, we would like to change the statute of limitations and say that there is no statute of limitations for these offences. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening and waiting for comments. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-275	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask if you wish to speak on behalf of the Government. Yes, please.
u2014-10-20-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yes, I'd like to speak. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Please allow me, in the context of the bill, to say a few words about the type of crime itself and the efforts and changes to the law that have taken place in recent years. Crimes related to child sexual abuse are classified as the most condemnable types of crime. I believe that the state has a serious responsibility to act very effectively, rigorously and without contradiction in the defense of the most defenceless, most vulnerable group, the children. In the previous four-year cycle, the government has already put forward several legislative proposals to promote prevention and to tighten the sentence. In short, the list of these measures can be taken into account that, first, the legislator extended the limitation period with effect from July 2012, in the case of violations of personal liberty, crimes against sexual morality and, in the case of intentional assault more serious than three years old, until the age of 23 of the victim. This was further strengthened by a new amendment of the law with effect from 1 July 2014, resulting in the limitation period of intentional assault, kidnapping, trafficking in human beings, violations of personal liberty and the limitation period for crimes against sex and against sexual morality, more than three years of imprisonment, being considered to be valid until the age of 18 of the victim, followed by the limitation period. With this, the victim will still have the opportunity to initiate the procedure for many years after becoming an adult. As the Member referred to earlier, a few weeks ago in her speech before the agenda, recent unfortunate events indicate to us that the most repulsive crimes against the freedom of sex and sexual morality, committed to harm children or other vulnerable persons, could reveal information several decades after the crime, which would allow the perpetrators to be held accountable. In order to ensure that in the future the limitation period does not prevent those who commit these crimes from being held accountable, it is necessary to rethink the statute of limitations, specifically in the case of sexual freedom and crimes against sexual morality. Such tightening up is not unprecedented in the European Union. At present, the German Criminal Law is also being amended, which extends the facts of child sexual offences and child pornography offences with new behaviours and extends the limitation period. According to this, the limitation period for sexual offences against the child is set at the age of 30 and extends the limitation period for other offences. This amendment places a greater emphasis on protecting the interests of the victim, and in addition, serious sexual crimes whose limitation period is less than 20 years old should not expire before the victim reaches the age of 50 in the Federal Republic of Germany even if the victim was a minor. The Hungarian model now presented by the Member is T/1328 on the amendment of the Criminal Code to better protect children and vulnerable people. It excludes statute of limitations for crimes covered by the chapter on gender freedom and crimes against gender morality. The restriction therefore applies only to crimes of a sexual nature, the limitation period for the other offences committed to harm children remains unchanged and the limitation period remains until the victim is 18 years old. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, it can be concluded that the proposed Criminal Code Amendment protects not only children but also those of the age who are vulnerable, for example, as subordinates, dependants, students, students, learners, athletes, patients, grooms, caregivers. The government is in favour of this motion, and accordingly, I ask you to support the bill. I believe that we have a serious responsibility to take all measures to demonstrate more stringent action against acts that have already been committed against this most base criminal group and thus to act effectively in the prevention of these types of crime. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2014-10-20-277	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-278	Mr President, Dear Parliament, As has already been said, the events of the past period have pointed out that in the case of the freedom of sex and crimes against sexual morality against children, information that allows the perpetrator to be held accountable may take several decades. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At the same time, it is not necessary to focus solely on the case that started in the summer, as crime statistics show that tens of thousands of children will be victims or witnesses of sexual or aggressive crimes each year. Both as victims and as witnesses, the process of processing is difficult, even can cause trauma, after which it is not uncommon that the victims themselves become aggressive, their character distorted. Another common feature of such crimes is that the victim and his family often do not talk about what happened, or much later. In other words, many years from now, these children will find out what abuse and harm they have suffered. Ladies and gentlemen, So we're talking about crimes where someone takes advantage of the fact that he's in charge of someone else's supervision and care, and the other person is basically indefensible both because of his physical condition and spiritually. For Fidesz, and I trust all of us, children and vulnerable people are important. We must therefore act effectively, rigorously, without contradiction, and ensure increased criminal protection. In response to the problems that have already been identified, we have already begun to tighten the provisions of the relevant laws in order to protect children from criminal offences in the previous cycle. [[20.00]] On the one hand, prevention was defined as a goal and, on the other hand, high visibility, concealment for these types of crime, so that it does not mean reduce the number of crimes and at the same time make as many crimes as possible to be discovered. In this context, the highest penalty for rape against children has been changed, trusting that pushing the penalty limit will deter potential offenders from committing future crimes. The changes also abolished the obligation of the private initiative in certain cases, so that public authorities can act either on the basis of a complaint or on their own initiative. The limitation periods have been amended in two parts. In the first round, it was possible, in 2012 until the age of 23, and later, for the victim to have sufficient time to press charges even after he was 18 years of age, so that he himself would not traumatize the child, either as a witness or as a victim. Child-friendly hearing rooms have therefore been introduced, where children can tell what they saw and what happened to them in a homely environment. Finally, when I am talking about changes in the past period, I should also mention the introduction of rules under which those who have committed sexual crimes to the detriment of minors may be prohibited from any occupation or activity linked to the supervision, care and upbringing of children, young people. However, these restrictions do not appear to be sufficient. In order to ensure that the statute of limitations does not prevent the prosecution of perpetrators of such offences in the future, it is necessary to reconsider the statute of limitations. The goal is that those who want to commit sex crimes against children will have to spend the rest of their lives counting on the fact that if they do, they could be devastated by the law. The motion submitted therefore excludes, in the context of the chapter on gender freedom and gender crimes, the limitation of offences committed to harm persons under the age of 18 and the maximum sentence of more than 5 years. The same applies to cases of more serious, qualifying cases where a criminal offence is committed against the education, supervision, treatment of the relative or of the perpetrator, or otherwise to the harm of a person under his authority or influence. In the end, child prostitution and all cases of child pornography, regardless of the penalty, will be tightened up. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In the light of all of this, I ask you to support this proposal so that we can really protect our children from the dangers they are facing and the vulnerable situation. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-279	Thank you very much, Congressman. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-10-20-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that if there was and will be agreement on something in this House, it is that our primary task is to protect our children as effectively as possible, and that the Parliament must implement what it can achieve in this area through legislation. In this, I think there is no debate between us. Perhaps there is no debate either that, in recent years, decades, as Mr Secretary of State has said in his speech, there has been a great deal of legislation on this issue regardless of governments, and I believe that the legal system has improved in this respect. What we are, by the way, lagging behind is not in the area of legislation, but outside it, and not exclusively in the area of legislation, such as the development of different signalling systems, the strengthening of child protection services and the rest. We also agreed, ladies and gentlemen, and I repeat that we will probably agree in the future that we also need to provide special protection for children in the Criminal Code, and also for elderly and vulnerable people. I have always been and am still a believer in connecting these areas, because there is no way to distinguish between life and life, for example, but it is possible to show distinence and to do who is less capable of defending, and so, of course, children and elderly people belong here. By the way, I note that this is the case not only in the case of crimes against gender morality, but also in a number of other crimes, so the penal code already protects children, elderly people and vulnerable people. As the Secretary of State pointed out, and perhaps the rapporteur, Mrs President, that such a distinction already exists in the Criminal Code in respect of the limitation period. In particular, the beginning of the limitation period is practically the 18th birthday of the child, i.e. depending on the gravity of the crime being committed, the limitation period is already very extended. After all, if you commit a crime against sexual morality where the limitation period is 10 years, if you say it is committed to harm a 10-year-old child, then the limitation period for that crime, like any of the most serious crimes, will be 18 years. It is also right that, in the most serious crimes against gender morality, the legislator is thinking about how to give more protection to minors, minors, under 18 years of age, children? Depends on which law you quote. And here's a review of the current bill. I think that if we react ad hocly to certain life situations, then we may not be able to bring the best solution to Parliament. Let me give you an example. Is the congresswoman here now? Is it clearly purely for good intentions? is intended to provide greater protection to children who are defined as victims of a crime against gender morality. But I'm asking you to say, in a case where the same child, let's say, is beaten, not sexually, but with permanent injuries, that he can't get back on his feet again, why there's no crime that doesn't go away. It's not because that's what we've been thinking about, and it's been a life situation in the media lately, and we didn't think that it might be worth thinking about in the case of other crimes. I am not saying that we should now submit an amendment, which also responds to this, because we may be able to find another five crimes where we face similar situations. I say that if there is a case in which the need to amend the Criminal Code is raised, it is worth sitting back in that chair and thinking about how to fit into the system; of course, there is no delay, since these life situations require a solution. But would I consider it much better? Speaking of sex crimes? What if it's a crime against a flagrantly serious sexual morality? I mean, if I have to name it, is it a case of sexual assault committed to the harm of children? Let's say he could be punished for life in prison. [[20.10]] And from now on, we are not raping the system, but we are putting this crime into the system, because all crimes which are punishable by life imprisonment are not a criminal offence. For example, I would consider this to be a better and more efficient professional solution than merely the exercise of limitation periods. We would therefore not be making exceptions, but putting into place the political will that the Member has expressed. I hope so, fellow Members. And I'm putting this in the middle of my speech? that in this debate, when we make professional criticism, no one will stoop to the level that whoever does not fully support this proposal but dares to criticize it wherever it is, is actually on the side of criminals. It's not like that. The point is that we are trying to solve a life situation well, we are trying to create criminal code facts that actually achieve and achieve the political will that we want and not the basis for abuse. Believe me, ladies and gentlemen, this must be a very important topic for me as a father with small children, as a father of a little girl. Believe me, and perhaps this way the emotion can be believed by me. Are we also seeing that? and here I refer to this with one sentence, as my fellow Members will discuss this more in their speeches? That criminal law doesn't cure everything. Mr Zoltán Demeter has just said that these restrictions are not enough, they have not led to the right results. I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that if we accept this in this way, as it lies before us, this will not lead to the result that you would like. The omnipotence of criminal law is not true, even for serious crimes. I also think that we should agree that the first aim is not to punish those who have committed such acts in 30-40-50 years' time, but to recognise it as soon as possible when such acts occur, and to prevent further similar crimes from being committed by the same person to harm the same victims. I think that this is the legislative intention, which is a priority, and if you like it, it can only be complementary, that if it has already happened, and if we have failed to see it and prevent it then at least in years, decades, the person who did this can be punished. I therefore propose, and I also suggested, in the Commission's debate, that we consider, first and foremost, in this debate, how to improve the system of child protection services, how to improve the signalling system, how to identify and prevent these acts at an early stage. Believe me, fellow Members, this is not a prank, but that is the essence of the matter. I think that this is where we need to capture these phenomena and raise about ancillary amendment, we can put aside the change in the statute of limitations, but until we talk about this, I think that we will certainly not reach the root of the problem, and at most? Living with the wrong metaphor? We're gonna take the problem down a little bit, but we're not gonna rip the root out of it. On the other hand, who have just spoken in general? and, of course, I followed the same example, because is this the essence of the proposal? "We talked about, the congresswoman, to name her, according to the law, the Criminal Code 26. § 3 is intended to add one point (c), one point (d) and one point (e). So far, we have talked about point (c), which, in the case of crimes against gender morality, in the case of crimes more serious than five years of imprisonment, if the victim of the offence was not 18 years of age at the time of the offence, he will rule out the possibility of limitation. But there is a point (d) and an (e) of this proposal, and I am opposed from a professional point of view to its adoption. I hope that my fellow pro-government Members and fellow opposition Members will be open to critical arguments, just because they are not fundamental differences in our views, but simple professional considerations. In point (d), do you say, Congresswoman, that those crimes are also? Article 19 The chapter on crimes against gender morality in the Criminal Code? , so the offences defined in this chapter for which the education, supervision, care, treatment of the deceased or of the perpetrator, or otherwise to the harm of the person under his authority or influence, and the abuse of other power or influence in relation to the victim constitute a more serious qualification? It's complicated, but is it necessary to read it? It would also rule out the possibility of statute of limitations. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't support that. I cannot support it because, first of all, we are not talking about minors, because this is not a condition here for not being 18 years of age, but for any relationship between adults, and in this case there would be no statute of limitations. And here I think that, even though we are moving past the fact that this has nothing to do with juveniles and their protection, this is a basis for a number of abuses. If you think about it, fellow Members, how do you say these are typical workplace situations? Perhaps Congressman Demeter referred to this. It is right, and we have also supported the punishment of all sexual abuse in such circumstances. But think about the abuse that it gives you to be able to report an ex-boss in 30-40 years if he, say, is the one that's driving the barrier to his advancement, based on this legislation. One. Two. If we say that the statute of limitations is excluded from criminal offences which are the most serious, I believe that in such a case, let us say, a crime threatened with imprisonment for two years or three years, there is no reason to rule out limitation, although in other serious crimes such as robbery or anything like it, we do not rule out the possibility of statute of limitations. Here, I consider this a codification error, because it does not exactly fit the picture that the Member's intention was with the proposal. I propose that this point (d) be rejected. I am the same with point (e). Does it seem steep to you at first? You want me to use that word "pesties"? Since we can say why I would like to rule out non-judgement and the possibility of statute of limitations in the case of child prostitution and child pornography offences. Ladies and gentlemen, Those who used to be here in this Parliament remember the debate that we had on this subject. That's what the criminal code looks like right now. At the time, there was a suggestion that it would be worth identifying specific grounds for non-criminality in this crime scene. If we do this, then the non-exaggeration can remain in the most serious cases. If we don't do it, it's life-threatening. Well, so is the current situation. Because today? And that's what the law says, is it weird? If a 19-year-old person is another 19-year-old... [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] Or a 17-year-old man? I'm not going to determine which one is the man and which one is the woman, because it doesn't matter? He's doing a pornographic recording, and he's threatened with a sentence of 2-8 years today... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Fifteen minutes? I have to get used to the new house rules, Mr. President. Then in my next speech, I will explain this because it is longer than asking for a few seconds of patience. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-20-281	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Végó Sebestyén.
u2014-10-20-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, our group supports the proposal, because we support any proposal that can give more protection to minors, children against this type of crime, and we also support any kind of tightening up against such perpetrators. [[20.20]] It's obvious why. There are also clear technical reasons, because in many cases, we can talk about the statute of limitations starting from the age of 18 years, but in many cases, even if this serious crime has occurred between parents and children, that child may still be dependent on the parent for several years over the age of 18. So this confirms that it doesn't lapse at all. Besides, the addiction situation was determined when it would end. The second is that, in many cases, victims of such crimes need not only to become adult, but in many cases, even decades have to pass before they process it themselves and can take the process of criminal proceedings, reach the level of processing that they dare to stand up and even press charges on this issue. And let us not forget that in these crimes, too, it is possible that, as a result of post-traumatic stress, the victim buries these memories within himself, and that after several decades, these memories may come to light in connection with any act or incident; so they all support it. Not to mention one of the most brutal and despicable categories of crimes in my opinion? And is it possible that I, too, am a family man with small children, can play a part in this? One of the most serious and brutal crimes a man can commit against another person, a minor. In this way, action must be taken as decisively as possible in relation to these crimes. What type of measures are still needed has been presented in recent years. Of course, it was all about the punishment and the disenfranchisement of the perpetrators, but we have to admit, it's just not enough to start on this field. Of course, in the first round, we must take steps that can be put into effect, even overnight. This category includes Btk. tightening it up in this respect. However, we must recognise that we need a complex package of activities here to eliminate these crimes. We've been talking about the child protection alert system. I myself worked for child welfare in the early 2000s. A few years ago, the Child Protection Act came into force, and we thought it was difficult to get started. We justified that the child protection warning system wasn't working. But it's been 17 years since the entry into force of this law, and we're still at a point where this system doesn't work. And if we want to take out examples, including cases discussed in the media for long weeks, very serious and very desperate cases where parents have carried out these actions against their children, then we can see that those children went to school. But before they went to school, they were supposed to see a pediatrician, supposedly the counselor went to them, and then they went to school and they supposedly met the teachers there every day, and there was a case? Is it a very serious case? Where even the caregivers of child welfare services were these children. So, in fact, the main elements of the child protection signalling system, the main four elements, did not work. And the question is why it didn't work, and we have to look at it. Is it possible that the legislation does not have a normal framework, regulating how the child protection signalling system should work? Is it possible, and is this possible in many places that members of the child protection warning system may be intimidated? And do they often fear not dare to make the right signs? In many cases, that protective woman must go back to the uncomfortable area of the village from week to week, that pediatrician must meet several parents in the same way, so, on the one hand, to regulate the operation of the child protection warning system, there is a need for more stringent and effective protection in the interests of those who perform the public service. We need to look at how the current social security system or the child protection system works. In fact, when it comes to the fact that members of the social care system and the child protection system, even with a degree, often live under more difficult financial conditions than their beneficiaries, in many cases we should not be surprised that professionals with good skills do not stay on the field. In many sad cases, they flee abroad, and very often perform nursing tasks alongside disabled or elderly people, very well-trained professionals, with excellent skills and a great deal of experience. Or, in many cases, unfortunately, we also have to say that, people who have no other choice choose this course. They go as a kind of forced orbit, either in the social field or in the area of child protection. As long as this system exists, as long as their wages are not in a state required by their expertise and, by the way, by the responsibility of their profession and their responsibilities, we cannot even expect paedophile crimes to be reduced. [[It's a constant murmur.]] The child protection care system and the social care system not only have a major role and role to play in revealing these cases, or perhaps suppressing them in the bud, or stopping them in the bud, but also plays a major role in preventing them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I mean, it's like...
u2014-10-20-283	Excuse me, Congressman, but do I hear you in stereo? And I can't hear the congressman. Here, go on.
u2014-10-20-284	Thank you very much. So even if you look at it as an unsub or a person with a tendency to commit, a normally functioning social care system can still be put on a normal course in time. Or in an abused child or in a vulnerable child, when he is in a state where his socialisation life process is going in the wrong direction, and in the future he may be a potential perpetrator, if he is suppressed in the bud, he will recognize it in the system's time, then the injuries of this child can be corrected by a normally functioning social and child protection system. The course of this child's life can be steered away from being a potential perpetrator. But this? I'm gonna say it again? there is a need for complex treatment of the problem, recognition of the profession, the launch of professional special programmes or recognition of the participants involved, and if this system is fully built and operated normally, then, yes, only one crutch of this can be the Btk. tightening. By the way, unlike many Members, whether socialists or LMPs, or liberals, I think that what they say has a more preventive effect on the contrary. I believe in strict Btk., because in my studies we had to study law, and there we were struck by the fact that punishments and the tightening of punishment do have a preventive effect. Because that unsub, let's say, in this case, if we take this bill or take this amendment, it might occur to him that he will have to face the consequences of his act in up to 30 years' time. Or even if you think about raising a sentence, you might wonder if it could have very serious consequences and not get away with it without being punished. So this does have a preventive effect, and they are very much needed. It's just one leg of the system. And there's still plenty of feet to take into account, and without them, it's not gonna work. Because staying with the example taken away, as long as so many of the cases in the focus of professionals are only revealed after years, then it's really not enough for the Btk. tightening. Then we really have a big problem. And the Btk. In its tightening up, now apart from its preventive effect, there is a social need that one is that these people should receive their worthy punishment, two are to be punished as rigorously as possible. Let us not forget that if these cases occur, they cause such a fracture in a child, after which it is very difficult for him to undergo a healthy personality development. [[In the notary seat László Földi is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] And I, as a social professional, say that, and I, as a man who worked as a probation worker, have come across many ways of life, I have even met a career for criminals, and I know very well that society doesn't care where such a broken socialization career leads. [[20.30]] In many cases, it can be observed that a minor or a child who has been subjected to sexual harassment in his childhood, he is likely to have a deviant lifestyle in very many cases, because this case has started him on a course from which it is very difficult to bring him back, especially if, let's say, the perpetrator who did this to him is a person he is vulnerable to, so that, after he has been committed, a proper treatment of this course cannot be diverted from that child. This also justifies the fact that a more complex measure should not only be punished more rigorously, or that it should not only be stated that if a person commits such a crime, he should not be able to escape this punishment in 10-20-30-40 years' time, but the primary objective is to prevent these crimes. What my colleague Bárándy said about point d, I'm not a lawyer, I'm just sober? Not peasants, but social workers? I'm telling you that if we start with the logic on which you challenged this point (d), we might as well object to point (c). [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why?]] I'm not a lawyer, I'm just sober? Not peasants, but social workers? I'm telling you that if we start with the logic on which you challenged this point (d), we might as well object to point (c). (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Why?) Because in many cases, it is possible that an adult person who is angry with his parents would seek revenge on his parents and report to his father that he was harassing him when he was a child. It can be the same abuse if we follow this logic, because in many cases it may take 10-20-30 years, or even 40 years, to end this addiction, either in the example you mentioned, in a subordination relationship, in terms of an employer's subordinate. Then it must be given the opportunity for this employee, who has been harassed by his employer, to be able to use the opportunity to press charges and, indeed, to be punished by the perpetrator in 10-20-30-40 years' time when this addiction ceases. I'm telling you, I'm not looking at this with legal logic, I'm looking at it more as a social expert or as a Member of Parliament. Once again, in the near future, as we have already begun, we will have proposals, not only criminal law, but also other proposals, to address this issue and, above all, to focus on prevention and the development of the system, so that these cases are very minimal and very minimal. So we will have proposals to support this amendment of the Btk., but, of course, using the opportunity to submit amendments, and we have done so, and we will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-285	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2014-10-20-286	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The LMP supports the proposal, just as we supported the Btk. amendment, which, in addition to the statute of limitations, stated that the statute of limitations only starts from the age of the age. Indeed, the previous limitation period was a serious obstacle to such cases being brought to light, since it was clearly not expected for a minor child to turn against just those on whom he was dependent, whether the abuser was a parent, a foster parent, or a teacher. We also agree with the current proposal, which completely eliminates the limitation period. Crimes against children have the highest visibility, 90%, and in many cases decades will indeed pass before these crimes are discovered. It is important that the perpetrator can be held accountable for the crimes committed in the past in such cases, but we believe that the amendment of the statute of limitations in itself, the Btk. tightening up is not enough. The most important thing would be for cases to be brought to light and for further damage to be prevented by immediate intervention. The child protection warning system would have to work effectively to ensure that it is not only decades later that a child has been sexually assaulted or abused. Currently, two thirds of parents in Hungary also use violence in raising their children, and child abuse remains hidden in 90 percent of the cases, with only 10 cases out of 100 and only one prosecution. According to statistics on child protection, 20,000 children become victims of psychological, physical, sexual abuse every year, and last year, 371 children were sexually assaulted. Another shocking fact is that about 30 children die each year as a result of abuse or neglect. It would be the responsibility of the child protection warning system to prevent the risk to children, i.e. to identify and eliminate any factors that hinder or hinder the physical, mental, emotional or moral development of the child. Members of the signalling system, as defined by the Child Protection Act, are obliged to use an indication at the child welfare service in the event of a child's risk, to initiate an administrative procedure in the event of child abuse or serious neglect or other serious danger. They are obliged to cooperate with each other and to inform each other. As the case in Szentmiklós shows, at present this signalling system is not working properly in Hungary, the professionals and authorities involved with the child are unable to prevent or take any meaningful action against child abuse. There are systemic problems that make people in the signalling system unfit to recognize when a child is subjected to abuse. The ombudsman's report on the case found that victims of child abuse in Szentmiklós did not receive any real help to eliminate their risk, and professionals did not recognize in time that they had to be removed from the family. There was no meaningful cooperation between the members of the child protection warning system other than the signal, and the extrusion procedure was delayed. In summary, it can therefore be concluded that in proceedings in child abuse cases, members of the local care system often do not know about abuse or that their intervention is ineffective in order to prevent serious abuse. Professionals of different professions? Teacher, doctor, defender, police officer or notary? the limits of competence between professionals are unclear or not known. In practice, this occurs either not to signal or not to signal in time or not to indicate the real problem. In most cases, defaulting professionals are not subject to detention. Although those who do not exercise their obligation to signal can be held accountable, the practice is that there is no real professional follow-up and consequences. Since the entry into force of the Child Protection Act, no material, material or personal resources needed to implement the law have ever been available. There's a serious lack of expertise in child protection, high fluctuations. There are about 500 women of protection in this country, with 250 children for each of them, which is impossible for them to do. They work in small towns under very poor working conditions. A methodological material was prepared in 2004 on how to recognise abuse, for example, but compliance with it is not mandatory or accountable. The burden and bureaucratic structure of the child protection system are also the reason why the island-szentmiklós case could remain a secret, and the people involved often do not recognize violence. Many professionals are unaware of the symptoms, signs, and consequences of abuse. What the LMP considers important in addition to criminal law instruments: strengthening the training of child protection professionals, education on child abuse and the recognition of domestic violence, further training, methodological guidelines, education of children's rights, inclusion in the National Basic Training Plan, strengthening the child protection signalling system, reducing the burden, increasing the number of professionals, replacing the wage increase that has been cancelled since 2008. Clarification of competence boundaries is very important, as is the clarification of responsibilities, the tightening of liability rules for failure of members of the signalling system, the establishment of personal responsibility in the event of failure, and professional follow-up. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-287	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, within a 15-minute timeframe. [[20.40]]
u2014-10-20-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, We welcome this proposal from its representatives, because it condemns sexual violence against children very clearly and clearly, and the proposal provides very strong guidance in order to ensure that these violations do not go unnoticed by pushing the statute of limitations. About the last 20 years, violence has come to the world's attention, and for about ten years around the world, there have been significant surveys and research that apply to Hungary, and from which we know very well that the primary area of child sexual crimes is the family, and the perpetrators who abuse them are mostly adults who live with them, either near them or in a close friendly relationship. It's really rough stuff we know about. All of you have acknowledged that. 90 percent of the perpetrators are mostly heterosexual males, and the highest exposure is girls between the ages of 4 and 11. But we can also say that according to surveys, 10 percent of the victims of sex crimes are girls under 5 years of age. The submission of the bill therefore seems to be very justified, despite the fact that, as has often been the case with regard to violence, this was also inspired by a specific media event. It is not necessarily a problem; of course, it is very important for a wide range of people to understand what it is and to make clear the positions that politicians represent. However, I also believe that what has been expressed by many has not always been a good thing to do with such matters. The data we know about violent acts are not necessarily country-specific and apply to women and children very often in parallel. However, the situation in Hungary is typically worse than in European countries, because the complex system that many people have spoken about here, which prefers the protection of children in advance, prevention against punishment, does not work well enough in Hungary. Therefore, a bill that starts with sanctions cannot inevitably be perfect. According to a study conducted in 33 European countries in 2009, it is clear that women and children turn to the courts in Hungary, so victims of sexual violence are the rarest, because they typically do not trust the authorities. [[Turning to the representatives of the MSZP:]] Can you keep your voice down, gentlemen? Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but it bothers me. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Sorry, we talked about the subject again.]] That's great. Of course, I am in favour of the bill of representatives before us. To push the limitation on the limitation of criminality, I think it is a better solution than what has already emerged in the debate, namely, which concerns the extension of penalties. In a sense, as you have said, this is a lifelike proposal, because indeed, children's sacrifices are as rare as possible to seek help from themselves. However, I think that the authors could have come up with a more generous, original proposal, namely that in 2011, the Council of Europe adopted the so-called Istanbul Convention on combating violence against women and domestic violence. This Istanbul Convention was also signed by Hungary, not so long ago, on 14 March 2014. However, this proposal has not yet been ratified by Parliament, so it is not possible to enforce this very important legislation in Hungary. The Istanbul Convention is an international legal instrument that treats violence incredibly extensively, domestic violence, violence against women and children as a clear example of the most serious acts of violence. Its specific aim is to prevent violence, protect victims, prosecute perpetrators, support and post-care for children and women who suffer violence. The Convention represents the principle of zero tolerance, which is very clear about sexual violence. If Parliament had ratified the Istanbul Convention? What I'm wondering is, why hasn't it come to that yet, maybe Mr. Secretary of State will be able to answer me? , it could have implemented a complex and full regulation, so this current motion by its representatives would not necessarily have been necessary. However, I am in favour of this current proposal, but at the same time I think that by adopting a much more extensive and elaborate Istanbul convention, we could defend not only the interests of the women of the future, but also the interests of the children of the present. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the ranks of Fidesz and Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-289	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in two minutes, MSZP.
u2014-10-20-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to finish it very quickly, which I failed to do in the previous speech. So, with regard to point (e), which concerns child prostitution and child pornography, I would also suggest a solution there that the most serious forms of that could be threatened with life imprisonment, and in this case the possibility of statute of limitations is also excluded under our current legislation. The one I started to talk about as a problem, and it seems that if there is no reason for non-criminality, which I said in my speech to the lead speaker, namely, that in the event that these people who took the pornographic recordings of each other were, say, spouses? 'Cause you can get married under 18, and you're bound to 18 by Btk? or partners, at least there shouldn't be a criminal offence, threatened with imprisonment for 2-8 years. Because if we combine this already problematic rule with the inexhaustible one, then weird and bizarre situations can arise from this. So what I'm saying is, either let's consider whether we can introduce ourselves here in connection with pornographic recordings? Obviously together and with a common will? a reason for this kind of criminality, or at least not to add to the already unlucky situation, i.e. at least not to make all the cases of this subject an inexorable crime. So I'm gonna say once again, the outstanding cases, yeah, I'm gonna say, is that a sanction like that, supplemental? if we call this statute of limitations so? It may be justified, but without an exclusion, it is certainly unfortunate to do so, even very unfortunate. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-291	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the speakers announced: Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2014-10-20-292	Thank you, Mr. President. One child in five becomes a victim in some form of sexual abuse or violence. It can happen to any child, regardless of gender, age, color, family, religion. The perpetrator is often a loved one known by the child and not necessarily an adult. It is estimated that in Hungary there are 25 hidden cases of recognised child abuse. [[20.50]] The cases discovered by child welfare services reveal the abuse of 20 children per day. Eighty-five percent of the violence known by child welfare services was assaulted by the parent, 65 percent of the family is psychological, 32 percent physical, and here I would point out that 3 percent of the known cases are sexual violence. UNICEF counts our country among the most dangerous places in the world, given the frequency and severity of child abuse. Here again, I would like to point out that abuse is usually complex. If she is sexual, she is also a victim of psychological and physical violence. In Hungary, at least one child every month and at least one woman every week are victims of domestic violence, which means that the victim dies. From comparison of judicial statistics and research data, experts have estimated that nearly 99 percent of the perpetrators of rape will remain unpunished in Hungary. It can therefore be agreed that it is a good complementary regulation, but it does not solve the problem. What my fellow Member has said before us is not enough to regulate this with just one law. Think about it, fellow Members, do you have children? I raise three kids, two little girls and a little boy? Whether it will solve the problem of having a child sexually abused until the age of 18 even on a regular basis. Will it be a solution for this child if he is 18 years old? This is not the only legislation that will be the solution. The current proposed amendments are not sufficient to prevent offences against children, as the amendments do not affect the child protection institution system. Improved operation and efficiency of the signalling system must be essential. This requires high-priority improvements in this area. Here it is critical to say that, compared to this, less and less money has been spent on development of the budget in recent years, at least under the title of social and child welfare services and professional support, only HUF 144.3 million was planned in 2012 and only HUF 67.9 million in 2014. Similarly, it is disappointing that development of child protection services was supported by HUF 137.9 million in 2012 under the title of methodological tasks.In 2014 only HUF 115 million was added to the development of child protection services, even though the system of child protection has many problems, many have already said so before me. This was the subject of a number of the Ombudsman's reports in 2013. It should be pointed out here that we are not just talking about sex crimes. In one case, he found, among other things, that there was a lack of cooperation in the child protection signalling system. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights concluded that professional cooperation between service providers and authorities for the protection and duty of children was unlikely to have been achieved due to lack of methodological recommendations and knowledge of professional protocols. In another case, when a small child is starved to death, the Commissioner believes that it is necessary to broaden and clarify the scope of methodological recommendations and to revise legislation. Unfortunately, we see that the protection of children is not sufficiently important for the government, at least this is shown by the fact that, as pointed out in a recent report, the implementation of the national catch-up strategy adopted by the government in 2011 has failed to develop and introduce the conditions for social work at school without justification, even though prevention, a positive school climate and timely professional assistance play an important role in preventing adolescent problems. We need to talk here, we've been told about the child protection alert system. The mandatory task of municipal authorities is to maintain the child welfare service, the primary role of which is to help children in the family, to resolve situations of danger, and to help families in crisis. To this end, the services shall operate a detection and signalling system in cooperation with the following institutions. I will now list the institutions that are dealing with this in Hungary today: health care providers, in particular the protective services, the general health care services, the general health care services, the family care services, in particular the family support services, the family support center, the public education institutions, the police, the prosecutor's office, the court, the protective services, the body responsible for victim support and compensation, the refugee reception centre, the temporary accommodation of refugees, the associations, foundations and persons with religious rights, the labour authorities. Here, we have to ask how it is possible that if so many organisations deal with child abuse or domestic violence against women, then how can 99 percent of sexual crimes remain undetected, stay within the family and remain latent. It's not enough to take care of children only when there's a problem. There is also a need for prevention and improvement of the signalling system. Experience has shown that despite the development of the protective women's system in Hungary, the protective system, the child welfare system and the cooperation of the civil sector should be rethinked. In addition, territorial inequalities also apply to the provision of women's protection, and there are fewer women where the most intensive assistance should be given to families. The UNICEF survey shows that although Hungary spends relatively much on these services, precisely because so many institutions deal with it, the level and proportion of children's deprivation is worse than in Bulgaria and Romania. The practice also shows that even though there are nearly 4,000 women and the same number of social workers, families are slipping into very difficult situations. What's the help? ? The question can be asked here. There are laws and regulations, and I have said that the development of the signalling system and, in any case, the daily, continuous cooperation of these institutions. But what can we do for the children? I ask whether the children know where to turn when there is trouble, because in most cases they remain latent because they do not know who to talk to, because they do not even know who to turn to. Children need to know that there are professionals, teachers, social workers, while we are talking about older children, the Ombudsman, representatives of children's rights, pediatricians, psychologists, school psychologists, child welfare officers, there are police officers who can turn to if there is a problem. Today we see that such a high level of vision is because the children themselves are not aware that there are organizations that can help them. This law must be supported in any way, but the attention of the government must be drawn to the fact that it is not enough. It is not enough to regulate only by law, but by the very many institutions that I have listed, it should work every day and cooperate precisely for the victims that have been mentioned here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-293	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Staudt Gábor's 15-minute speech on Jobbik's part. [[21.00]]
u2014-10-20-294	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to add some new points to the debate, which may be received by some of us, but it will not be surprising on the basis of the previous programming points represented by Jobbik. And by the way, we think that what we're saying is not a coincidence, and we want to find real solutions instead of just smearing the problem. Because, despite the support and support of this proposal, it will actually only improve the situation. Of course, it is very good not to put off sexual crimes against children, but there are very few cases that fall into this, and more than that? And can I agree with Gregory Bárándy on this one? If, after twenty or thirty years, some truth is born, on the one hand, it is good, but it would be best not to commit such crimes, or if the justice system immediately struck and gave an appropriate answer. But what's the right answer, that's the question. I say this by saying that, of course, this is good for an additional proposal, which you have formulated. I no longer agree with Gergely Bárándy that tightening up alone is not dissuasive. I would add that, in many cases, you can represent an appropriate deterrent together with the execution of the sentence. It is true that we can describe anything in the Btk., but if there are no proper law enforcement agencies to enforce it and there are no sentences, as quickly and with sufficient rigour as possible, the deterrent force will be impaired. But criminal tightening can lead to progress by transforming the Bv system or Bv thinking. I might as well think that in the debate of the prison law, perhaps only Jobbik represented the view that there are perpetrators who do not necessarily want to adapt to society, and we criticized the fact that in the new law, the new prison law, it is a basic starting point that everyone wants to fit back in and rejected the fact that it is a good part of prison residents, a good part of the inmates? There's a lot to argue about, but a lot of it? He doesn't even want to pursue a law-abiding lifestyle after he gets out of prison. Do they often say that in there, even when they're talking to the media? Could we have seen something like this? That if they were released, they would continue where they had left off, and that they could not have any deterrent force, either a medium or longer sentence, or a deprivation of liberty on their part. So this was, in itself, a derailment of the new Bv law. We believe that those who want to reintegrate must be given all help, but there are those who must be influenced by punishment alone. I would add, although I do not want to go in this direction, that work can also be a punishment. At the moment, work in prison is a reward, but for many people who go to prison and have not done any work in the world, hard work is a very serious punishment, even the greatest punishment that he can imagine. But I really don't want to go any deeper into this, it's just a criminal, criminal-executive concept. But what can possibly deter these people, and how can they be allowed back into society? Does it exist in Europe? And I'm going to give you the Polish example here? Yeah, it's a procedure called chemical castration, which is a pill procedure before you think it's... Although when we said this in residential forums, a lot of people were upset about what it was that we were talking about chemical castration, a skilled shepherd with his little knife could easily solve this, many people in residential forums said. Unfortunately, based on social feedback, there may be a reason for thinking that this could be a solution, but we should stick to good practice in Europe and to good practice, chemical castration, which is a reversible process. So let's get this story straight: if someone doesn't take these pills, then his hormone levels will be restored. But why don't we do that for an unsub who we know will continue, because he's in his blood, as they say, because someone with a pedophile tendency wouldn't be a pedophile for ten years or 20 years. If he is released, he will continue in the majority of cases where he left off, because it is just similar sexually motivated crimes that are the most difficult to prevent. We believe that if that is the case, there may be several solutions. What we would most support is that even after a serious punishment, such offenders will only be allowed back into society if they do this pill treatment. This can be checked, of course, by taking blood or otherwise, when the authorities are able to see if they are actually taking these tablets. By the way, on the basis of international examples, this is very effective in reducing sexual desire and will not think about chasing young children. And this is the main thing to prevent him from doing this in the future. By the way, there is no other solution for sex offenders, unfortunately, and this is acknowledged by the profession. Is there any way to introduce this, by the way? Even though we, as I said, consider it possible to impose this as a mandatory punishment? To say that someone will receive a strict punishment and agree to continue to submit to this pill treatment as well as to controls, and that they can be released back to society, or that if they do not volunteer to do so, they may face an even more severe punishment, but the best solution would be to release these perpetrators only then. I don't see any reason or explanation that could override that. In my opinion, those who harass young children have no right in the future to decide whether or not to undergo such a pill treatment. And you can't make a mistake, because I know that when it comes to the death penalty, they always say, "What if there's a mistake or anything else, even though in these cases, mistakes are pretty rare. But if it's a mistake, you can still stop treatment, so if you don't take the pills, then your hormonal system will be restored. So it's not permanent and it's not irreversible. I'm really asking you to think about that, along with these explanations. I don't see any argument against that, especially because? Like I said? The tendency to relapse is very high. And I'm afraid you're gonna have to look at that, too? And are these also statements, professional experience? That once a child was harassed, he could never, ever get over it. Never! It's not that someone gets beaten on the way home from the pub and his wounds heal, but that the victim of harassment will carry this burden for a lifetime. So I have to say, for criminals like you, even the more serious punishment, even the death penalty, would be possible, but let's not get into that right now. If someone's crippled another person for life, then we should think about it, but I don't want to bring it here right now; I wish I could bring it here. The other subject, which I would also like to raise: if you have already opened it, quite rightly, is the scope of the crimes that will not lapse, then? and I have also tabled an amendment to this in order to be eligible by this House and the relevant committees? I would like to see corruption crimes in the office, and, above all, crimes against officials, fall into a circle that does not lapse. I would also like to say why, by the way, the abuse of office is also listed in this section: we have seen that in the past few times, public figures, or active politicians, could not be held accountable because they said that this crime was overdue. In most cases, by the way, we are talking about the former members of the MSZP, and they may now be political in other parties, but we also have fellow Members in Parliament who could not be prosecuted for the reason that there was evidence, because this crime was overdue. And they were public money, corruption crimes, but they're out of date. You can't let that happen. In addition to the crimes committed to harm children, this is what annoys people the most. What do you mean a public figure can stand up in front of the TV and say it doesn't matter, I don't care, that crime is over? ! [[21.10]] I can continue to be a patriot, with all of this happening, because six months, a year, they're out of the statute of limitations. By the way, I would like to add that the theft of Hungarian national goods has taken place from 90 onwards with similar acts, and the amount that has been stolen, these are foreign and minimal estimates, and the current government debt is two-and-a-half times higher. The amount that was stolen from Hungarian taxpayers and as part of Hungarian national assets in the direction of offshore, and this is a minimum amount. Now, if that's the case, it will require effective action. I would also like to tell you what acts we would like to see not to lapse, and the fact that it does not expire, or may even have other legal consequences. This could be a starting point for its reclaimability. That would be the bribery of the office, the acceptance of the bribery of the office. This would mean, in the case of bribery, that if the official person is involved, the person who gives it or offers it and the person who accepts it would fall into this category. I didn't think to include economic bribery here; of course it could be, but I would like to focus first on the state, the official people, the public money than these stricter rules. This would include bribery in judicial or administrative proceedings and acceptance of bribery in judicial or administrative proceedings. So here too, both passive and active would be punishable. I think I don't need to tell you in detail why judicial proceedings, administrative proceedings are a subject to be protected, subject to protection, which must be protected, even by placing the statute of limitations aside. Also, failing to report bribery is a very important aspect that officials who find out about it do have to announce it. And if it turns out to be a corruption crime, then they too, if they have failed to do so, can be punished regardless of the time limit. The last one, which is only partially corrupt, is a felony of misdemeanor abuse. We also believe that if a person accepts something in exchange for an advantage, violates the rules in his official proceedings because he is promised an advantage, this may fall into this circle, and we can actually link this to the ones listed. So I would very much like both the government and the committees to support this proposal. And we want us to see a clean public life, and not only a clean public life, but also one of the public politicians or officials who is revealed to have committed these crimes, they can be held accountable without limitation. It could be added here that, of course, penalties could be tightened in these cases. [[The president's ringing the bell. ? It's an intervention from the ranks of the independents.]]
u2014-10-20-295	Congressman, you've been off the subject for about four to five minutes. I remind you that...
u2014-10-20-296	I am talking about the amendment that I have tabled for this.
u2014-10-20-297	This isn't open, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-298	Mr President, what I am asking is that if the statute of limitations on criminality is open and I have tabled an amendment to this, and this cannot be the case before this House, then this is a derogation from the matter on this basis.
u2014-10-20-299	Go on. Go on, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-300	Thank you. Then I'll close it, and we'll look into how, how, how. Then I'd shut it down; we'll respond to what we heard from behind from the DK benches. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2014-10-20-301	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman László Kiss, MSZP.
u2014-10-20-302	Thank you very much for the floor. I just want to talk briefly about what Congressman Bárándy started, about how much we can get from him using the Btk. as a club. However, I also think that society should be given a clear signal that this House rejects such crimes. I therefore support this proposal myself. However, I would ask the majority, the Fidesz fraction, to change the current system that has been in place since 2012, according to which child protection officers are not obliged to apply in schools. It was mandatory in schools before, not now. The task itself is mandatory, which can be provided by the school's principal or employed by a teacher. The practice of the CLIK is, by the way, that a teacher does not provide a special source for this, or does this task out of love, so that they can detect in the institution the crimes that the proposal is talking about, or that no one is doing it in schools right now. I would therefore like to ask you, anyway, that the budget will be before us in a few weeks, so that you will think about when this budget is adopted to reinstate those responsible for child protection in the institutions. In this case, along with this legislation, which is now being created by the House, it is possible to achieve the objectives that everyone here agrees with by strengthening the system of child protection institutions. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-303	Thank you very much. Speaker announced in advance in 15 minutes, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP.
u2014-10-20-304	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to read two sentences very briefly, because it is extremely instructive. The statistics of the last five years and police experience do not justify setting up a child prostitution task force within the police force. Experience has shown that underage prostitutes become prostitutes, not under threat and coercion, but voluntarily. Prevention is a school task, and the police can only contribute as a signalling member. This quote was made two and a half years ago and caused quite a heated debate in the profession. I have brought this here, ladies and gentlemen, because I would like to point out that I am in agreement with this proposal and that I am also proposing support. But still, if we look at police statistics, and I'm a thorough man, I've looked at it, usually it's less than 30 on the subject of sexual exploitation of criminal proceedings. As a reader of statistics, I also see that the ILO had a report stating that nearly a million children were involved in the sex industry. Hang on, a million children! In these developed countries, about 25 percent of one million are published, and a significant proportion of those affected are usually re-prisals from Eastern Central Europe and Central Asia. Now, in Hungary, if we look at the reports of various civil society organisations and there have been sociological surveys in recent years, there are two things worth drawing attention to. One is to hide, the other is to say, to look away at professionals when they want to ignore it. In hiding, of course, I mean the unsub, the perpetrators are talking about the so-called runners, the operators and owners of the brothels, but unfortunately the children are either affected or the victims, to be more precise, often hiding, and indeed the clients are very often too. In looking away from professionals, we do not take it into account, the shift is usually present. I would like to draw attention to a judicial decision where the judge, by the way, recently stated that he does not consider psychological terror to be domestic violence, or even at all, does not consider psychological terror to be an act of violence. Now, and here more people have referred to it, if we look at it from the perspective of the institutional system, it is more or less okay with us at the level of legislation. Almost all the institutions know what their duty would be, but the institutions, on the one hand, refuse to take note of it, do not enforce their rights, on the other hand, the cooperation between the institutions is not coordinated, and this results in the immeasurable vision that Ildikó Borbély referred to earlier. And, of course, a lot of clichés and prejudices. It's enough to sit at various conferences of civil society organisations for a few hours, and they'll give us live examples, like, that we can't do anything about it, because that's what he is, but we've heard here before that he's in his blood. I do not want to deviate from the subject, of course, Mr President, but from the net Nazi operation to the euthanasia programme, it is possible to say here what proposals for solutions will come out. [[21.20]] What's the problem, really? We don't know? With reference to what happened earlier? Who deals with the prevention of child prostitution because it could be done more effectively; we do not know who deals with recognition; and we do not know who deals with its treatment. I'm the police's answer? which I read earlier, or did it say at that conference? Do I think it's a terrible, lousy answer because the cops usually refer to it? By the way, in our time when we were steering, did they do the same thing? That voluntary sex over the age of 14 is not punishable, and that's how they got it all done. A significant part of the children who have become victims, we know exactly that they are institutional children, and in the so-called dossier of the children of the institute, practically the entire history of the child must be there, because the educators, the adults who should be concerned with them, should know what happened in the child's life. When police proceedings were conducted or enforced, practically these protocols were always missing from this dossier. Why is that? 'Cause the cops don't want to deal with him. They don't want to deal with it because it's a pain in the ass. I would like to note that according to the Child Protection Act, all young children under the age of 18 are considered children, so from this point of view the police are wrong when they say that practically everyone over the age of 14 is doing what they want, and they are not even willing to take a report. So there's one of those? How can I say this? They're wearing police glasses that can't be seen between the ages of 14 and 18, so it's just crazy. I will refer later to the fact that there was an international agreement that Hungary should comply with. Sexual exploitation must be discussed. These juveniles? And this is primarily about children? If they are included in a system of institutions and the child is to be dealt with within the institutional system, there is an individual care plan to be drawn up. There is a great deal to be learned about the individual care plan, but it does not come to light, while we know exactly how strong dominance is about prostitution, child prostitution, and how strong drug abuse and drug trafficking are. Would you also like to refer to that meaningful report from a few weeks ago? I can't tell you which newspaper made it, but it was a very high-quality, even sociologically high-quality newspaper article? , which deals with Hungarian prostitutes living in Switzerland. Have they shown that the hotbeds of drug trafficking are prostitutes who typically speak Hungarian? because they don't usually take these poor young girls out of Hungary, but also from Transylvania and Transcarpathia? And, of course, it's related to trafficking in human beings, and it's linked to taking pornographic photos. So I stress the individual care plan because here you need to see what kind of care the child needs when it comes to the hands of professionals. As I mentioned, the situation with the children at the institute is extremely serious. I would like to draw attention to the fact that more people are thinking about girls right now. My dear friends, nearly 20 percent of prostitutes are male prostitutes, and if we use the ILO's estimate of one million people and 25 percent of them are children or young people, then you can imagine how many little boys are affected in this case. In girls, do colleagues say that about a third of those affected have suffered some kind of abuse when they were young, and in the case of girls, they occur in large quantities at the age of 12-13? I put this amount in quotes, of course? But unfortunately for little boys, it's 7-8 years. Think of the psychological damage these children will have for the rest of their lives. A recent report from the European Parliament, and the European Parliament in this report, says that the amount of prostitution and trafficking in human beings in Europe is estimated at EUR 25-27 billion. Think about how much money you've got. 8,000 billion forints! Amazing. And it's right in front of our eyes, right here in front of our eyes. So I think everyone here has a job to do. Other sociological measurements say that in Hungary there are typically 300-400 cases per year when prostitution of children is to be dealt with. And the police report says he's not up to 30. There are ten times as many cases as there are in the sociological profession or in social policy? A lot of people from child welfare services have come into contact with this problem in the same way that 300-400 cases per year are the ones to be reckoned with, and the police say that they have no knowledge of this, and they do not even reach 30. I would like to draw attention to the role of the Internet. Europol, of course, has a job here, and Interpol, too, but please, we should see the report here, because I know that it is either here or in the person of a ministerial commissioner or a government commissioner, József Hatala is now functioning and in the morning for a year and a half, only God cannot tell what this man is doing with this title or with this mandate, because no one in the world has been able to give us any data on this, nor have they been able to tell us what work is being done under Mr Hatala. Why did I mention the role of the Internet? There was also a recent study of the personalities of the Internet trolls, and a significant part of these people are targeting only young people and children, so our children are in danger. These are typically antisocial elements, which typically play their antisocial hobbies on the Internet, including paedophiles, including sadists. A lot of us hear about it, and we know that there are trolls who drive the injured child into suicide over the Internet. This is called online depravity by our sociologist colleagues, and I think that not only the Hungarian Parliament, but also those professional organizations who do not know what they have done in recent years, but I have not heard very much about the fact that even Internet crimes of this kind would be dealt with in substance in this country. In English: there is more to be done. I am not a fan of such criminal populism, it is not an unjustified tightening up of the Btk., but I certainly believe that complicated social phenomena cannot only be answered by increasing the penalty. There are a lot of organizations here that have a lot of work to do in the near future, and I, if I may say so, even take the initiative to deal with these matters in the near future. Of course, we will vote in favour of this proposal and we will support it, but I can only repeat myself: a lot of organisations still have a lot to do in this area. Thank you so much for listening.
u2014-10-20-305	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2014-10-20-306	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am pleased that, on the basis of the speeches that have been made so far, I feel that there is one thing that can be agreed for all of us: what we are talking about is one of the meanest forms of crime. I think we can agree on that. However, allow me to respond to two previous speeches at the beginning of my speech. I also think we can agree that the tendency to pedophilia and the tendency to violence are involved in these criminals, so it can be said, as my colleague Gábor Staudt said, that it is in their blood. [[21.30]] Calling it a net Nazi, I think it's pretty powerful. I'm saying that I can't agree with the net puffy Bolshevik thought process, which could say, say, if we tighten up Btk., we're talking about criminal populism. So much for that. I'm done with that. The other important thing I would like to say to the minutes is that during my colleague Gábor Staudt's speech, László Varju shouted that we would listen to this nonsense for a long time. He said that when Gábor Staudt said that the corruption crimes that were committed might not be subject to limitation. I know that this may hurt him very much, because there may be billions in danger that, let us say, his party leader has at the moment, but this is still a thoughtful idea, I think, which my fellow Member has raised. And then let's talk about what this law is about. Do I agree with the previous speakers? And here, I think, you can agree with the speakers of the MSZP? That all existing means must be used to prevent such crimes from happening. And indeed, this fight against the form of crime must stand on many feet. Here it has been said several times that the signalling system should operate much more efficiently, the child welfare system, the effective functioning of the protective system, is necessary, indeed, this should also be addressed, and this could also serve prevention. I also agree that the enlightenment system should work much better, so the victims know where to turn when this happens to them; they know why it is important to take action in the first case and do not allow this to take place for years. And what has a big role to play, and that is the media, because the media should deal with this issue a lot more, they should play a more role in ensuring that this prevention can happen, and, yes, here comes the foot that we are talking about, that strict sentences have the same deterrent effect, and that these must be done. When strict punishments are imposed, then, of course, here comes the role of the media, which should demonstrate this. But I don't agree with Gergely Bárándy's argument that there may be abuse here, or what if someone is falsely accused. This is the case now, and these crimes must be proven. So if this crime happens now, and it turns out the day after tomorrow, we still have to prove it, and that's when the perpetrator will be convicted. So it's not enough to accuse, it's also necessary to prove it, which is why I think the inexorable is acceptable, because it doesn't matter that the day after tomorrow you have to prove such a crime, or you have to prove it in 20 or 30 years, in both cases you have to prove it. So just because someone's being accused isn't enough. And the most important thing in this is that there can be no procrastination, so anyone who commits such a crime will live their whole life knowing that he's never safe, that he can be found out at any time, that he can be punished for this crime. And I know that after 20 to 30 years, it may be even more difficult to prove this crime, it's clear, but we don't know that, and the unsub doesn't know how, let's say, science will evolve in the next 20 to 30 years. Think about the fact that he committed murders 20 to 30 years ago today using DNA? that you didn't know then? They can handle it. So it's possible? We don't know, do we? That science is developing so much that, let's say, these crimes, if any, can be proved much more easily later. But once again, the most important thing is that the perpetrator of such a crime should be terrified for the rest of his life, that this despicable act can be revealed at any time and be held accountable. I think it's a prevention and it's a deterrent, but even if it's not a deterrent, you shouldn't live your life with something out of date, and I can't be punished from here on out. I think that, after such an introduction, and also as a representative of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and also as a family father, I certainly welcome the provisions of the bill before us. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we would welcome a much, much stricter bill on this issue. Otherwise, those who think it's too harsh should go out with people and ask, say, citizens what they think when they commit sexual crimes against a child, what they would do with that perpetrator. I would also like to say, if I were not in Parliament, what, in my own private opinion, should be done to people who are vulnerable children, people who are often entrusted to them, adults who are trusted by a vulnerable child, abuse that trust. I could tell you what to do, too, but I don't think I'm gonna say anything about chemical castration by Gábor Staudt. So I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members, in the light of the current tightening up, to two moments that I believe must be taken into account by the legislation. One such moment already arises directly from the link between the title and the content of the draft legislation. The proposal states that:. The modification of the criminal code necessary to better protect children and vulnerable persons, while at the same time excluding the limitation period in terms of gender freedom and crimes against gender morality, including if the victim has not reached the age of 18. At the same time, it is not difficult to see that anyone who is the victim of such a crime, regardless of age, is vulnerable. For example, when we think of the crime of sexual violence, the basic case of sexual violence occurs when the perpetrator forces the perpetrator to act sexually or to tolerate it by means of an insulted violence or a direct threat to life or physical integrity. Obviously, coercion itself assumes the vulnerable position of the other party, and in view of that, I think it is completely unjustified to discriminate on the grounds that the victim is 15, 25, 35 or any number of years old. My fellow Members, our proposed amendment, which we have tabled on this subject, aims to ensure that the legislator recognises that all victims are equally and equally vulnerable in the case of sex and crimes against gender morality, and that discrimination on the basis of the age of the victim has no place for limitation, and that the limitation period should be excluded in all cases. So if you commit such a crime, you will also commit it against a person who is vulnerable, regardless of his age. Of course, it's a classified case when it's committed, say, with a minor, a child, but it's also an adult lady? and, in general, in the case of violence, we are always talking about children and ladies. We know that violence can also be committed against men, so that it does not become discrimination. Any violence against anyone in that situation and in that case is vulnerable, depending on their age, this can only be a classified case that someone may be doing this to a minor. At the same time, I must point out that age discrimination is not based on statute of limitations, but, as I have just said, it is emphasized in the classification of the crime. Remaining in the previous example, it is a case classified as sexual violence and is punishable by imprisonment of up to 5-10 years if the offence is committed to the harm of a person under the age of 18 and if the offence is even more serious if the victim has not reached the age of 12. Although it could be argued that these penalties are sufficient, as I have said, it is beyond doubt that increased protection on the basis of age is currently in place. Overall, I am therefore confident that my fellow Members will support our proposed amendment, which will make all cases of gender freedom and crimes against gender morality a non-extinct crime. Another moment, which I also particularly recommend to the attention of my fellow Members, is that the whole code of criminal law must follow the principle of proportionality. I have just explained that, in the case of sexual crimes, we are very much in favour of the full abolition of the statute of limitations, but let us face it, if this situation arises as a result of the welcome decision of the legislator, then there will also be some disproportion: it is not permissible for the most serious crimes against human life and freedom to lapse until sexual crimes have lapsed. At present, the basic case of manslaughter, the kidnapping committed in the criminal association, armed or armed, but also trafficking in human beings, in a commercial or violent manner, with threats. [[21.40]] I do not think that I need to state in particular that the weight of these crimes, their danger to society, also requires that only the limitation period should not prevent the perpetrator from being held accountable. In this respect, we have therefore made an amendment, which we have also tabled, and we trust that if you truly claim to have the professional criminal law arguments which you have put on paper in the drafting of the bill, then our current argument will also be accepted and supported by our firmer proposals. We would ask you to consider, in particular, the Secretary of State, to consider these options. I mean, we're talking about nothing but very, very serious crimes, and I'm bringing in anti-life crimes, no statute of limitations. So whenever this crime is discovered, whenever the perpetrators have been handed over to justice, these people should be punished for that crime, for that serious crime. I ask you to consider our amendments and I hope that we can receive your support for these amendments. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-20-307	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László György Lukács.
u2014-10-20-308	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I've got some good news for the MSZP faction. You can speak and call President Tobias, who has been registered as Attila Retkes of MSZP, because the DK-MSZP cooperation is still being established, since you and your own munder have defended the honour of the back row by speaking out of Congressman László Varju when he praised Gábor Staudt's suggestion. But my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, did not get much more than trying to get the court, the police and Jobbik, so the pro-police forces and institutions to the ground. By the way, was it a self-goal in the fact that the things you said about the police were flaws, that's what they were? Did Congressman Gábor Staudt outline this? could have been detected at any time by non-exaggerating acts. But let's get down to it, and let's stick to it, because this way, my fellow Member Barondy will be out of control, which doesn't bother me at all, but at least now he's gonna be able to. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Because of you? You're kidding! Don't be silly.]] A little bit of attention. What has so far been about victim protection and victim protection, but there is a need to focus on another acquis of modern criminal policy, social protection. Everything that was said here was appropriate. I think the Honourable Parliament was thinking in the same direction. However, I would like to turn to a lack of social protection and a further reflection, which may also be important. We can talk about this without taboos. This could be the follow-up or the record of such perpetrators. It is necessary to think about the practice that has spread in Western Europe, but also overseas. We talked about it, our fellow Member Selmeczi said that he gave examples of how the statute of limitations can be resolved in Germany. There are examples in Germany that in certain federal provinces there is already a register of sex offenders, which is an accessible and traceable register, as is the case in the United States. It's a XX. It is a criminal policy requirement of the century for social protection, and it also serves the protection of victims. What means can this be achieved by? Before the liberal rights defenders make it worse for us to want to disclose everyone's data and to have access to the data of unfortunate criminals, I will say that there is indeed a way to do this, which is completely civilized and European. And that is to put the decision in the hands of the judge, he can decide himself to apply for this as an extra measure in certain cases, so that personal data, such as the address or the subsequent change of address, can be included in a central system. This would be in the hands of the judge, not automatically, and it might also be possible to rule out cases where, by the way, our fellow Member Staudt said that the law is rarely wrong in these matters. But if there's a mistake, there's a good way to rule these cases out. The other thing we've been less aware of is that an international commitment dictates exactly what I'm talking about to run a database. On the basis of the agreement concluded in 2007 in the municipality of Lanzarote, this is in the Canary Islands, there has been a cooperation that highlights and underlines the importance of such a register in relation to sexual crimes committed specifically against children. This is the basis for the launch of the Council of Europe programme in 2010, one out of five campaigns, which also serve and support this goal. So we must use these international instruments, European Council instruments, and we must continue to think about this proposal. This is how you can essentially put it in the context that has been mentioned several times, together with the signalling systems, the punishment and the feedback after, so the social protection feedback can give you a complete holistic picture of this. Therefore, there are indeed shortcomings in this proposal. This should be complemented in any case, and this should be further discussed. And what has been the issue of Congressman Barándy is just a technical question, with regard to the statute of limitations, would be avoided by punishing him for life imprisonment. Maybe this could be a mistake? But can a substantive debate be held on this too? Because I believe that the exact statement of non-judgement in these acts would be consistent with the absence of punishment. So it would be a real threat, while the other life imprisonment in this case could be more a measure of duration and weight. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] I'm saying that we're still open to this debate, it was a legal issue. We believe that, however, the current or current legislation would be more appropriate, but there is also a better way. To sum up, it can be said that these tools must be used to learn how to work. The government needs to hear it, and it needs to be able to think for itself about putting this whole thing into the system that, by the way, is left-wing, right-wing, whatever politicians say. So we should have received a much more complex proposal, which would have affected not only a Btk. amendment, but a lot more amendments to law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-20-309	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2014-10-20-310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, My apologies for my girlish confusion, I am not used to having so many fidesz in general debates, and I have mild stage frights that I have to speak in front of five or six pro-government representatives. But first of all, I would like to thank Gabriella Selmeczi for this presentation, and I would like to thank the Parliament for negotiating this. I am very, very grateful for this, quite frankly, because what I have been saying since I am here in Parliament, is that if this were to be raised by an opposition representative, it would not even make it into a series of subjects at all. So we can really be grateful that this is even possible. I do not want to repeat what my fellow group member has said, but there have been some speeches that I would like to be able to respond to, because I think it is important to stress that all this subject we are talking about is not recorded, so we are punishing or punishing it, which basically means a pipe-end thinking that assumes that a crime has occurred, a human tragedy has occurred. I would welcome further this initiative if there were a multitude of government measures that would contribute to the preventive institutional system. And it would not only contribute by talking in words about what we can do, but also by making an infrastructural contribution. I would be pleased to see that the structural resources under the government and the Prime Minister's Office, either with resources for human resources development or with resources for public administration, could be used to disseminate as much knowledge as possible, to form attitudes from judges to parents throughout the chain. Would it be good for the infrastructure opportunities in Western Europe - detective bottles and everything that is used in many places to make children as little emotional as possible about what they need to say and not have to relive the tragedy? I would have the source background in the next period. When I said I wanted to react, I meant Congressman Korós. He said this statistical data, which beats out my security completely, because if a statistic says that most of it is voluntary, then this statistic is so screwed up that it doesn't consider economic coercion to be coercive. Why does anyone think that it can only be physical coercion, and why do they think that everyone else is volunteering and singing simply because of better profit? [[21.50]] Such statisticians should start a different job or seek another task, because they are not in any way capable of seeing anything. At the same time, I would also like to respond to what Congressman Luke said from Jobbik's ranks. I fully understand your feelings, but I do think it is necessary to say that the enforcement system, the police, has a responsibility. I do think that you have a responsibility to the extent that the rate of unexploration is so high. There is a responsibility for the entire education system, for the defence network and for all the elements of the system that are often mentioned to be exposed in such a small proportion, for such a small proportion to be revealed, and for the rest of their lives many people carry them without knowing how to handle it. And if it's Btk. We're talking about the amendment, so I'm thinking, if you're gonna be at the Btk. Amendment 3 is a good tool to make non-exploration a criminal offence, why failure of any element of the signalling system should not be a criminal offence. Why is it not a responsibility if an untrained, unprepared protective network, a poor, flawed paediatric attitude, a foolish, stupid educator, who does not signal, does not notice any violence against the child if he does not mention it? What attitude do we experience so many times that we want to lose responsibility in order to see if anyone else in the signalling system wants to signal and pass it on to someone else instead? This is even more so in small communities that it does not personally assume the fact that it is in conflict to make these signals. And in this case, I think the Fidesz government has a great opportunity. I think two thirds of Fidesz is a very, very big opportunity. And every time he uses these two-thirds, he's qualified the political party for what he knows. I wish Gabriella Selmeczi to take this matter through, and I wish her the strength to carry it through with a full infrastructure background, resource background, personnel training and awareness-raising. Let there be political will and will to go through this from the beginning, and not to talk about how to keep track, how to punish him, but how to push him back, because we prevented all of this from happening. Because let's face it, what we have before us is, of course, something to support, and, of course, even in the case of a party like LMP, which has a different view of Btk. basically, we say that this can only be supported. There is nothing to do but to accept this motion, but to say that it is very, very little. It's a backup measure at the end of the pipe in a system that already treats something has happened. So I ask the MPs and the congresswoman with great respect that you take this case? For, once again, expressing my gratitude? Then take it through to ensure that the Prime Minister's Office creates all the resources, all the strength and all the infrastructure backgrounds in order to devote the greatest possible resources to prevention. So that's what I'm asking. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-311	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2014-10-20-312	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Sallai when he talks about the police and how much the media should be exploited. Here's what we've been talking about, the media has a very big role to play. Let me mention two things. The media should report a much larger range of cases of successful and very fast reconnaissance, for example, in such crimes; when they catch it very quickly, let's say, the police may have the kind of satyr who terrorizes a part of the city or part of the territory. And here I have to mention that the government should not pursue the various self-defense movements or civil initiatives that are self-acting when there are such crimes in a part of the city, they participate and are willing to take care of, protect the people in the part of the city or those who travel there. But here's the negative example, how do we look at it, when a crime doesn't find its perpetrator for long? And unfortunately, this is the murder of Soroksár, which, you know, from the news, was a sexually motivated murder? And if, for a long time, the police don't find the perpetrator, it's a negative example that keeps appearing in the press. In my opinion, it is questionable how potential perpetrators are affected. 'Cause it might encourage the unsubs to see a murder like this, a sexually motivated murder like this, hasn't been investigated in over a year. So on one side, when the police? Is it because of professional errors or because of such a difficult case that this cannot be defined? If the crime is not detected quickly, the media will report a wide range of cases where such prevention is successful or when the perpetrators are successfully caught and in a smaller range. So here, too, the media has a big role to play in conveying messages and messages to people. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-313	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mr. László Kiss will have the floor.
u2014-10-20-314	Thank you for the floor. In fact, we are in a very strange situation because it is very easy for us to make all the criticisms of the staff of the care system, but we also need to see that the problems of the social care system are also being concentrated in the child protection area. That is why I agree with everyone who talks about this being a complex issue, not a criminal matter. Didn't anyone tell you about that? And no one's ever talked about it before? The fact that the social sector has failed to organise wages. No one's talking about how child protection officers pulled the rug out from under their feet. This is very important because professionals working at the end are trying to cope with an impossible situation, and when it is said, fellow Members, that it often happens that helpless teachers are assisting impossible situations, in many cases because overworked professionals, those who themselves are forced to live in a social crisis, are professionals who, by the way, exercise the role of child protection officer out of love, because the state does not provide them with resources, in such a working environment. You can't go past that. If we are talking about strengthening the system of child protection institutions, everyone agrees that the amendment of the criminal law law is just one instrument, but there are many others, then it must be said in this House that, until the situation of end workers is improved, no one should expect anything from this legislation. I ask that this be done with this budgetary law before us. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-315	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik.
u2014-10-20-316	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! There will be a repeated amendment to the Criminal Code, which is usually the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, when it comes to tightening up, when it comes to increasing order, public safety, security, we always say that we always support this for ourselves. There have been many cases of statute of limitations in the last four years, and some of these crimes are now inexorable, so these crimes do not lapse. And the current amendment to the law is exactly what we want to do, or does the author want to expand it? Is that what it looks like? virtually every faction supports you for your part. There are minor criticisms of this, and we obviously want to extend the uncertainty more widely, but at the same time we must see that this amendment is absolutely necessary. And the most important part of this amendment is when, in the case of minors, the limitation period is practically suspended during the period of minors, and the limitation period begins when a person is of age. Why is this so important? If we start from statistics, we need to see what's shocking is that 10 percent of such sexually-containing crimes happen to children under 5 years of age. Amazing! Obviously, a child under the age of 5 cannot be expected to press charges or even be expected to speak to his parents, because he may not even be able to tell us what happened to him, and he will not have a very bad feeling about this in 5 or 10 years, but it will probably be in him for the rest of his life. It is very interesting that it continues to be divided in a ratio of about one third to one third of the age groups over the age of 5 to the age of 6-12, 12-14, 14-18, who become victims of these crimes. [[22.00]] So that means that at the age of six, they become victims of crime a lot of the time. And how interesting it is that when an investigation was carried out in schools and questionnaires were submitted anonymously to children here in Hungary, more than ten percent of children on this subject indicated that they had already been subjected to sexual harassment or sexual abuse in some form. So the proportion of these children is over ten percent. The same questionnaire also revealed that nearly one third of children are the ones who tell anyone that they have been sexually assaulted or sexually assaulted. These are usually for parents, but now this means that two thirds of children don't talk about it in any way, so that's how it was kept secret. So from these age groups, between 14-18, of course, it would be better to expect, but smaller ones are not expected to know at all what to do, what to do. The other major problem is that even if you know and are aware of it, you do not know who to turn to and where to turn, because statistics also show that the perpetrator is familiar to the very large majority of these crimes, relatives, family members and relatives. It is a shocking number when we say that 80 percent of childhood and juvenile victims were victims to relatives, friends, and immediate relatives. So 20 percent, where the aliens actually commit this act. So if 80 percent of them are family members, relatives, family friends, in which case very often the members of the family cover this crime, on the one hand, they are ashamed, they do not want it to come out. On the other hand, what happens to the child? Of course, the child, who has experienced such a lifelong, shockingly negative, life-changing experience, besides being extremely frightened, will carry it throughout his life, and will remain guilty of it all the time, and he will also consider himself guilty; he will shift a little in the direction of being sure that he was also the cause and the trigger of this act, and he will somehow not dare to say that, since he says that in this case he was guilty, and he will not dare to confess his own guilt, even though it didn't actually happen, and he was not guilty of anything but and only a victim. What is even interesting and statistics is that 94-95 percent of these crimes are usually male offenders. So what happens if you're a family member, if you're a relative? Then this will be stored somewhere. And what is very interesting is that these crimes are very, very often repeated. So they take place in a series of, and even for years, process, from which the child is in no position to leave. And that's where the only option that comes in from becoming an adult is to get out of that medium, from that social group, from that family, from the community that kept it there, so there's even a chance that it might get out, and then it happens that you might be able to think about what happened to it, and then you'll be in a position to press charges to launch such a criminal procedure. What's the problem? Is the principle very beautiful, and have we often talked about domestic violence in the last four years, where we have formulated very beautiful principles, and even domestic violence for psychological terror? it was my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, who said a great deal of this importance here in Parliament's building that these crimes, as well as these sexual crimes, are extremely difficult, or at all, to prove. I mean, how do you prove that? [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Obviously, the physical means of proof is almost impossible to survive from a distance of 5 to 8 to 10 years. On the other hand, such a sexual crime usually takes place with the participation of two people, from the victim and the perpetrator, so there is usually no witness. Police statistics, on the other hand, show that these confrontations, which usually occur between the reporter and the alleged perpetrator, result only in 12 percent of cases. We could say that 12 percent is also a very big number, because in such cases they admit it, but you should see that this 12 percent is only one of those perpetrators who have already confessed to the crime, so confrontation results because they have already made a confession, but who are in denial, there is virtually zero percent chance that the confrontation will lead to a result. And even if there were any witnesses, who would be the witness if we were to say that 80 percent of them are family or related or within immediate family friendships? And most of it in the family? And what's the problem there? Even if family members are aware of it, there is the institution of immunity that is exempt from the obligation to testify as a close relative. In this case, statistics show that in these cases, close relatives almost always take advantage of this exemption and do not make a statement, thus proving themselves very difficult. It follows that it is almost impossible to prove this years later or 10-15 years from now. And I still like the possibility that, in a broken family community, if any, he's doing it because, say, an ex-wife perjured testimony at the police station, because he's trying to get revenge on his ex-wife in some form, and that's why he's behind the reporter. So it is a very difficult question to prove after many years, however, the opportunity must be there, because, as my fellow Member György Szilágyi said, it is very important that those who commit these terrible crimes to harm minors should never have a moment's rest in their lives, so that they will never be punished, and will not be punished in any way. So it is absolutely necessary to maintain this feeling, and that is why it is good to introduce it into the Hungarian legal system. However, we also support this amendment on these grounds. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-317	Thank you very much. Welcome back. We'll get back to work. This is Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate, in agreement with many points, I try not to go into many repetitions. I would like to say that it was a very pleasant surprise for me that Gabriella Selmeczi noted this proposal. I thought I'd meet him next time we were gonna be dealing with personal retirement accounts. But thank God no, there are other topics [[János Halász intervenes.]] And it's also an important topic, linked to his name as the author. I'd like to thank you personally for that. I think that the set of cases that we've been discussing for about two hours now, is actually everyday...? It's deplorable? After all, it creates a multitude of life situations that basically require a multitude of interventions that are my values, in my judgment, like the Btk. could also lead to action that will bring about stricter conditions from today. Not all of us agree on this, obviously even within the Socialist faction, or in relation to other factions. I don't think the only thing that solves the situation is the increase and increase of the penalty. No. But I think that by combining the multi-legged principle with the various options and solutions, this can also help to act as a deterrent. I'm sure you're not. It does not lead to a solution to the situation itself. [[22.10]] In fact, the terrible conditions that can be brought to life here, including Lajos Korózs, but my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély also said that, in fact, the measurement, not even to measure, but to take into account the supposition series, can reach about ten out of 250-300 cases to the surface, and that, combined with the consequences, one or two goes to the end, and the unsub has to face the fact that he did it, it's terrible. That's terrible, because 250-300 cases are practically falling, we don't even know about it, there's no consequence, while at the end one or two cases are accompanied by exemplary, virtually penalty-consequences. This situation must be changed. There is also a need to change the fact that, on the one hand, it is necessary to be able to achieve an increase in the intensity of exploration in some form. There have been numerous comments here today about how and how, of course, in the case of a minor, how can it be imagined when? About the previous speech? children under the age of five who are ten percent affected by such violations do not really know what is happening to them. Obviously, the only way to discover this is through the power of the community. So, if people themselves aren't afraid to perceive such cases, I can't even say that seeing them, perceiving them, they get to the point where they have work to do. So if we do not get to the state that if we are faced with such torsos, then we should be forced to act and take action, then this situation will not change in itself. Overall, I think society, the multitude of people, can do the best to exclude this situation and to minimise it. We tend to have a tendency to ignore it. It's better not to see it, it's better to walk away from it, it's not happening to me, it's not about my immediate environment, so let's ignore it, it doesn't become a conflict, but it's not just the man, the man who lives his daily life, but also, where appropriate, officials who carry out their duties, so to speak, cross certain limits and overlook certain things. That's not good. This needs to be changed. But this is in close correlation with the fact that there is a very strong connection, here is my fellow Member, László Kiss, who said that people who are practically engaged in their daily activities, either within the framework of child protection or in the framework of child welfare services, are practically trained 1. I do not want to go into the details, but Madam rapporteur, Mrs President, you know that the events of the last few years, of the last four years, are not about the fact that professionals working in this area, let us say, could account for an increase in their income position, but rather about real wage cuts. And if you are about to solve difficult tasks, and these are difficult tasks, then if you do not have the financial motivation beyond moral motivation, then you can certainly conclude that you may not be sure that he will do this, do it, take all the stress involved. This problem is complex, because because of its multi-player existence, there are a lot of people who can have a job in this story. Prevention and prevention are the most important issues in this area. As one of the legs of prevention, I consider it very important what I said with a few thoughts. And that is what only the Committee on Budgets can know today. In my mind, they have already seen or seen the budget projections or specific figures today. We'll soon get to know him in the walls of Parliament, but that's one of them. The existence of resources and money in this area is a prerequisite for prevention. If there is, if it's the specialist services, those child welfare services? Is that what I mean by professional service? , child welfare and child protection services can be financed, and people working in it can be paired with material care that is not a loss compared to the past, but an increase, so obviously this can help shape processes and things. But prevention is practically not just about this, it's not just about money. In this sense, I think that what is at least as important is combined with the broadening and enlargement of the information of children, of those involved. Yes, what I once again recall is that László Kiss mentioned that the re-introduction and introduction of child protection institutions in schools is an essential category. That the child, if he suffers such grievances somewhere, that he should have some place to say it. If you can't tell us because you can't express directly what's happening to him, if you're just referring to his attitude, or if you're giving us helper thoughts that are evident to the competent person, then we're closer to things, to solving them. Because then there is the possibility of intervention, because then the institution, through the school, can reverse the processes, and even before entering a phase that the child has already suffered certain grievances, but not to receive or suffer such deep grievances, which, if appropriate, are irreversible, trigger irreversible processes. And, of course, it must be added, repeating once again that ensuring the material and moral recognition of all those who have the opportunity and role in this field is an essential condition for such a prevention process to be strengthened in the coming period. And this is important because the broken, crushed lives are very difficult to overcome, to straighten up after such childhood grievances are suffered by these young ones. It certainly carries the grievances it could not deal with as a child for a lifetime. As an adult, he knows, looking back, what happened to him, but he's almost incapable of processing. These people are gonna get hurt. They will become damaged; and it is unacceptable, according to my standards, that anyone who causes these injuries can walk away from these questions unpunished. In this sense, I would like to return to the fact that the restrictions in Btk, the legal consequences, the increase in penalties cannot be rejected according to my standards, but I would like to add immediately that I do not consider it the only solution. I don't think this is going to solve everything. But in contrast to despicableness, in contrast to the calling to life of vile acts, if necessary, it is also necessary to enforce it, in addition to all the other factors mentioned. To sum up, I would just like to say that there are obviously a lot of existing instruments that can change the solution to this issue. From the above mentioned prevention through information, through the strengthening of professional child protection and child welfare services. In a good way, I would also like to talk about the need for direct intervention of the role of the police, namely, the way in which the sentences are to be dealt with in this area. But I would not ignore the possibility of direct intervention by the aforementioned people living their daily lives, in addition to increasing the willingness of various civil society organisations and the media to engage. Simply because the more unfortunate and avoidable situations we face, which are unacceptable to a sober-minded person and a sober living person, the more we all wake up to the fact that we have work to do to eliminate these issues and to avoid them. [[22.20]] I believe that, in the face of despicable acts against the defenseless, there must be a lifetime of consistency towards those who commit these despicable acts; overall, it is my conclusion on this matter. We can't just walk past these events and expect them to work themselves out. They will not, they will never solve themselves, they will have to look for any intervention to change this, and once again, although I do not believe that the only solution is the Btk., I do not believe that the increase in the penalty items is simply, that is to say, the settlement of the issue of not ending such a thing, it solves things in itself, but I believe that it will certainly help, but the rest of the legs should not be forgotten. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-319	Now, ladies and gentlemen of the House, are there any further comments? Does anyone wish to take the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm going to make sure you don't. On this basis, the general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs President, if she wishes to respond to what has been said in this debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, please.
u2014-10-20-320	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your extremely constructive approach to this proposal, and I would like to thank you for having so widely and in so many ways and from a very many perspectives and perspectives on this serious issue. The debate was constructive and wide-ranging. This independent motion, this amendment, has declared that if a crime is discovered, the situation should not arise as a result of the statute of limitations. So at this moment, this is what my colleague Erik Bánki and I have agreed to do to remedy this, since it is the summer events? As I said in the introduction? it has been shown that there may be crimes committed, sexual crimes committed at the expense of minors, which may be revealed but cannot be prosecuted because the act has expired. This proposal is therefore intended to remedy this. We know that with this proposal, this motion, we do not solve all the problems, so we are aware of that. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that we will consider all the contributions and all the proposals that are legally linked to this individual motion. Here, for example, we will consider the comments made by my fellow Member Bárándy in the debate, of course we will also consider the contributions of my fellow Members, and, if possible, will be incorporated into this proposal. I agree, for example, with Lajos Korózs, who said in the debate that everyone has a job to do on this subject. I also said at previous press conferences that politicians have an extraordinary role to play here to talk about these issues and problems, there is a great deal of responsibility for the media, I agree with my fellow Members, many have said that, and society has a very big role to play. I don't know if you've noticed, obviously you've noticed that these crimes are shocking? I don't know, what's the word? Perhaps indifference, you have told me, but also the indifference from the family, when for many reasons, but they do not act in any way. And it is not just a matter of filing a complaint or making it public, but it is quite simply that society does not want to be aware of these crimes, or in many cases society does not want to be aware of them. I think that we should lead the way, and I also think that this debate is good in the sense that we have once again drawn attention to the fact that there are such people, there are such criminals, and we have a lot of work to do on this. And as I say, it is not enough that we have laid down here in our own motion, but this is for a different purpose, which corrects the statute of limitations. I would like to say to my fellow Member in Szilágy that, at the moment, the statute of limitations in the Criminal Code includes the fact that there is no statute of limitations for criminal offences which can be punishable by life imprisonment, so that there is no statute of limitations. So in recent years, the criminal code has tightened up and developed a lot, and I'm just saying this in a western sense that it's not the same as it was 10 to 15 years ago. I can't respond to every single comment right now, but I would like to add one more interesting thing to your attention here, that Jobbik has raised this problem from the behavioral side, pedophile crimes. I read here in the press that the Germans have not only tightened the statute of limitations, but, for example, on the prevention page? Is that what my fellow Member of the LMP was talking about? expand a clinical project at the clinic of one of Berlin's universities aimed at early screening and treatment of paedophile tendencies. I think it is worth paying attention to the end of this research, and even if it is not for us politicians, but for professionals, it is important to draw their attention to what this clinic will do with this research at the University of Berlin. Once again, I would like to thank you for your constructive attitude and for the truly thorough and in-depth debate. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-321	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, In the light of the public holidays, amendments may be submitted on Monday 27 October at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Congresswoman Katalin Csöbör, Fidesz, a separate motion by T/1427. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Judicial Committee as a designated committee. First, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Csöbör, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-322	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The T/1427 in front of us. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. The aim is to amend the law. This not-so-managed and technically not-so-technically complicated, seemingly simple amendment is actually designed to solve a complex situation. The initiative, which is sometimes violently attacked by left-wing parties, comes from Miskolc, and seeks to prevent and manage the total depreciation of the real estate there, which is almost irreversible destruction of the residential environment in some parts of the city. As a member of the county of Borsod, I felt it was my duty to present to the House an amendment that could help us to implement the ideas of the city's leadership in Miskolc. I am doing this in line with the interests of the city of Miskolc by the opposition, instead of making constructive proposals, trying to present what is happening as an ethnic conflict, which I reject as strongly as possible. As I said, this is a complex issue, which includes the problem of foreign exchange lenders. In 2010, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association inherited one of Hungary's most serious social, economic and financial problems from the Socialist-Free Democratic Government? No matter how much they want to forget? The primary responsibility for the problem of foreign exchange-based house loans in difficulty lies with socialist governments. After reaching power at one time, contrary to their prior promise, they gradually eliminated the supported forint loans and actively contributed to solving their housing problems through foreign exchange loans or high-interest forint loans. [[22.30]] People have been lured into the foreign exchange credit system and have not been adequately warned of serious risks and have not been protected from their unequal position against credit institutions. During the previous term, Parliament adopted several legislative proposals, and new legal institutions were introduced. The government has implemented a number of measures to help foreign exchange lenders. Within the framework of the Home Protection Action Plan, the introduction of the exchange rate barrier institution, the possibility of a lump sum end repayment, the establishment of the National Asset Manager helped hundreds of thousands of the population. The Parliament is the LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. Act No XVII of 2014 amending Act No. By adopting a law on the protection of foreign exchange lenders, LIII of 1994 on the extension of the eviction moratorium and judicial enforcement provided for the protection of foreign exchange lenders. Act No. 303 the creation of the provisions of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty. On 4 July 2014, the National Assembly adopted the XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the joint decision on consumer credit contracts of financial institutions, as the first step in the legal settlement of consumer credit issues in this cycle. Law. This brought it to a legislative level and thus made it universal in the Curia 2/2014. The provisions of civil law laid down in its single law decision No 1. In line with this, it stated the nullity of the exchange rate gap and established the presumption of unfairness in the provision of the unilateral right to amend a contract. On 29 September 2014, the Parliament adopted the XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions. a bill on the rules of accounting laid down in its Act and certain other provisions. So, according to the legislation, 1.3 million families can get back the unfairly stolen funds from the banks. The proposal concerns 680 thousand foreign exchange-based loans and 650 thousand HUF-based loans. On average, payments may be reduced by 25-30 percent. The 400 financial institutions concerned must account for all foreign currency and HUF loans. Overpayments should be taken into account as early repayments of capital, which is the largest refund for debtors. Therefore, under the Accounting Act, banks must return to a fair level of interest. In addition, an interest rate increase and eviction moratorium will be in place until 30 April 2016 and 31 December 2016. Under the interest rate increase moratorium, a financial institution will not be eligible for a unilateral increase in interest, cost or fees. I would like to note that since 2010, more than 500 thousand families have received some form of assistance under the Home Protection Action Programme, 170,000 have lived with the possibility of final repayment, nearly 180,000 have applied to the exchange rate barrier, and more than 20,000 have offered their property to the National Asset Manager, while 150,000 families have received substantial protection from the eviction moratorium. However, there is a special situation, a special situation, and there are citizens that are also reflected in the prevailing state of Miskolc Avason, who, for various reasons, cannot benefit from these methods. Without permanent income, there is no such low repayment, there is no utility service that can be paid. The properties of the many-indebted will be destroyed, and the pollution will affect their environment, and the settlement area will become unlivable. We cannot let this happen, the municipality is in a need of action, we must create a viable environment that will also provide an adequate infrastructure environment for job creation. In the event of the adoption of a bill submitted for the purpose of achieving these objectives, the provisions on the eviction moratorium shall not apply if the auction buyer or recipient of the residential property is a local government or an economic entity in which the State or the local government holds a 100% stake individually or jointly and undertakes in writing to renew or renew the residential property within two years of the acquisition of the property, and to apply for the rental of residential property under the conditions laid down in the regulation on the leasing of the municipality, in order to create employment and maintain the labour force, to facilitate residence. During the municipal elections, on 12 October the voters of Miskolc had already decided. Now it's our turn. They expect us to continue our work. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2014-10-20-323	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll ask if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2014-10-20-324	Yeah.
u2014-10-20-325	You have the opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-326	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, The bill before us initiates the amendment of the law on judicial enforcement, but is closely linked to the First Foreign Currency Loan Act, the 2014 XXXVIII Act. a law under which, in the case of matters concerning the contracts specified therein, enforcement has been blocked under the main rule, i.e. no enforcement act can be carried out. However, if a residential property has already been sold before the entry into force of the law, acts relating to its evacuation may be taken. However, the provisions of the Law on the enforcement of the court concerning the discharge moratorium in force from 16 May 2014 shall apply when the evacuation is carried out. When adopting the rules on a moratorium on evacuation, this House also adopted a special provision assessing the specific situation of local authorities and public-owned enterprises taking on extra burdens for the benefit of the community. Under this exceptional requirement, the discharge moratorium shall not apply if the auction buyer or recipient of the residential property is a local government or a public economic entity and undertakes to renovate or renovate the residential property within two years of the acquisition. It also undertakes to issue a tender for the rental of residential property to a person who works in the municipality in order to facilitate job creation, labour retention and residence. Dear Parliament, In the bill submitted by our fellow Member Katalin Csöbör, the following objective was formulated, namely that the first Foreign Currency Loan Act, the 2014 XXXVIII Act, was adopted. In the case of the acquisition of property, the exception is that the local government or a public-owned entity is undertaking to renovate residential property and lease it to those who work in the municipality. The essence of this is that in the enforcement procedures in which the local government requesting enforcement or a publicly owned entity makes the commitment already indicated in the event that it acquires the property of the immovable property subject to enforcement, the enforcement procedure is not possible, but should be continued even if the real estate has not yet been sold. Like the objective set out in the First Foreign Currency Loan Act, this regulation should also facilitate the creation of jobs and businesses in municipalities by encouraging this process by providing local authorities with rental housing. Dear House, The Government supports the motion of its own representatives, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[22.40]]
u2014-10-20-327	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I now give the floor to Congressman Vas Imre, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say briefly about the bill before us and the need for it, given that it is actually a technical amendment. The issue of the substance of the case has already been decided by the House. In September, the government submitted a bill which provided for the extension of the eviction moratorium to protect foreign exchange lenders, in such a way that the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement provided for an extension of the eviction moratorium. Act by a new section, section 303. In addition, the Commission notes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. However, this section also laid down an exception rule that the provisions of the section in question cannot be applied if the auction buyer or receiver of the residential property is the local government or an entity in which the State or local government holds a 100% stake separately or jointly. This provision also provides that the auction buyer or receiver must undertake in writing to renovate or renovate the residential property within two years of its acquisition and to tender the person who has worked in the municipality of the place of residence for the rental of the property under the conditions laid down in the local government's lease regulation, with a view to facilitating job creation, labour retention and residence. In order to ensure that this provision is effective and not hindered by the 2014 XXXVIII on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's Consumer Loan Agreement Decision. Law 17. The adoption of the submitted bill is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, As is known, the aforementioned law is 17. In accordance with Article 5 of the Act, we have ensured that ongoing enforcement procedures based on wrongly calculated claims are interrupted as long as the law provides for the proper settlement of legal relationships and the actual amount of claims to be established on the basis of the laws enabling them to be cleared. In this way, it can be prevented from developing an unfair or irreversible life situation where the restoration of the original condition is no longer possible or would entail an unjustified difficulty. In the enforcement proceedings subject to the regulation, procedural acts or measures shall not be taken from the date of entry into force of this Act until the date specified in a separate Act. This means that the enforcement process is interrupted for the vast majority of procedural acts, regardless of the stage in which the procedure is conducted. The exception rule also allows for a derogation from this, the constitutional justification for which is that the residence of the municipalities and residents is conditional on the legislator helping the job placement by all possible means. It should also help to set up businesses, thus expanding communities with families living in the settlement, working there, contributing to public burdens. In view of this, specific rules other than the rules of the law on judicial enforcement need to be established in the context of the relevant enforcement procedures which ensure the achievement of municipal objectives in order to create a viable environment and to help families. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-329	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, on behalf of the MSZP Group, who will give the group's position as lead speaker. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-330	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It may not be the first time that a representative from Miskolc has spoken or tabled an amendment to the law on judicial enforcement concerning certain properties. Or it's not the first time, even if it doesn't happen on purpose, but it's about the Nest Puzzle case before the National Assembly. There were many such occasions, there were a lot of opposition proposals, even in the previous term. I'll deal with that in detail. It could have been such a debate that it could have taken a course where it really was just about the text of the bill, its literal nature. We could have talked about this. However, Madam Member, the rapporteur has discussed in detail the history of the case from her point of view and what inspired her to present this bill. And he himself said that he was motivated primarily here in Miskolc, a part of Miskolc, primarily on Avason, when he submitted this, by unblessed conditions. He missed the fact that constructive proposals did not come from the opposition side, so I would like to say a little bit of this, because the real situation is quite different, and I think if, of course, you have been entrusted by the Miskolc electorate in District 1 and we have passed an election and now we have another one, then let us say that in District 2 I have been assigned to represent them. For this reason, I think it is also my duty to present the situation in Miskolc from my point of view. What I can tell you is that the kind of situation that developed on Avason started around 2006-2007. In a criminal organization, probably a criminal organization, as there are still procedures in place, crimes involving hundreds of real estate have been committed. In this way, people, families who did not pay the common cost, were found to live in Miskolc, primarily in the everyday life of the Avas residence, in certain apartments, by criminal activity, and, therefore, the living environment was impossible. It's the nesting business, that's what it's been known to be in everyday life, that's what we call it. The truth is that in 2008 an MSZP municipal representative filed a complaint in this case for the first time on Avas, the investigation started in this case, and it became clear that there was a significant abuse at the time. Since then there has been a procedure, there has been a lot of final judgments in some of the cases, as several cases are taking place at the same time. However, it seems that this prolonged court phase is obviously making it difficult or hindering the solution of the problem there. This is why, in 2009-2010, the city administration entered and acquired ownership as the owner of several properties. There have been renovations. I am pleased to see in your presentation, by the way, that the commitment condition, on the part of the municipalities, is that these real estates should be renovated or renovated, must be supported by job creation, labour retention and localisation. These are very important goals. These objectives were also taken into account by the MSZP majority municipality in 2009-2010, when it thus evacuated and then relocated police officers into renovated properties. So police apartments were created on Ava. I think this was an important matter, and it was not negligible for public safety. Therefore, in the 2010 budget, the municipality allocated HUF 300 million to continue this programme. This has not been used by your local government, most of you in the autumn of 2010, after the municipal elections, and has not used it since then, has stopped this programme. I think that was a mistake. I'm just saying this because it's a whole thing. The processes of those days should have been continued. In the summer of 2010, when the Parliament first discussed the moratorium on eviction, right after the change of government, we, along with several opposition fellow Members, indicated that there would be a problem here, as the moratorium on eviction will also apply to these properties, this will prevent this problem from being solved. [[22.50]] We therefore tabled an amendment to this legislation at the time, which you voted against. We have constantly proposed to prevent the extension of the moratorium to these properties; we have been open to all kinds of legal arrangements, and we have not hidden it under consideration that we are making proposals to resolve this matter, and you have constantly voted against these proposals. Then we moved on, because as the years passed, the problem escalated, and it appeared that it was a topic defining Miskolc public life, the problem that made everyday life impossible. We have therefore made a proposal, we have said that the central budget is spending a lot of money on a lot of unnecessary things, it also spends these funds on luxury expenses, so we think that perhaps there is enough for a city with Miskolc County rights to deal with this problem with a separate amount of money. This would have been intended for two purposes: first, to obtain the real estate in some way by the municipality. We're talking about 200 real estate here, but I'm just saying to people who might not be involved in this everyday life. Another problem that has been worsening over the years has been that condominiums have become inoperative. Obviously, these tenants did not pay the common cost properly, and more and more serious debts piled up, and indeed this had an impact on utility services, and I myself was not in a house where the elevator didn't work, and the lights were turned off in the hallway. Obviously, in a building like this, in a corridor like this, it's impossible for people on the weekdays to pay their bills with honor. I myself have been in several of these real estates in the past, and I am serious about those who will comment on this topic, that this special life situation is obviously not acceptable to the majority there, and it makes their everyday life completely impossible. We may also agree with the congresswoman on this. And I have to say that I also made this proposal for 2012 in good faith with my fellow Members, so that it was true from budgetary sources, but let the process that will help the condominiums become operational and enable the municipality to acquire real estate. Your fellow Members didn't allow this to go to Parliament either. I think this is a very, very serious problem, because this is the direction that the local government started in, true, late and from its own sources. On the one hand, in 173 cases here, you obtained enforcement rights from a bank that was specifically affected? I won't say your name here in Parliament's debate, but are you specifically concerned? This whole case, or a fund, was created specifically from the municipality's money, which would have served to restore the functioning of the condominiums. That we did not have constructive proposals, that is why I would reject it, on the one hand, because we constantly indicated at the moratorium that there would be a problem while there was a majority socialist leadership in the municipality, we continued to take action. By continuously rejecting these, over the years there has been a serious problem with the functionality of the condominiums and everyday life. If you don't start your speech like this...? I wouldn't have added that yet, but I would add, about two or three weeks ago, in the Népszabadság, a piece of information about this case that has not been answered since then, even though we have asked several questions about it. This article states nothing less than that the Vice President of Fidesz, Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, worked as a lawyer in one of the properties of Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, a prime defendant of one of these groups, and the question may arise whether he organised this type of activity from there, which causes this condition on Avason. Several photos of this gentleman showing up at the Fidesz event at various balls with your former Fidesz fellow Members. There's a lot going on in this case. And they did make a decision in Miskolc. Didn't he get to everyone? Not even on Avason? this question, this is the case, this Népszabadság notification, which we have asked at any time as a question about what is going on with this case, has never been denied by any of the parties involved. I hope that we will see clearly in this matter someday, Congresswoman. I'm saying this because it's in the interests of the Avasians, and it's in the interests of the Miskolcs, so that it doesn't happen again. So much for the history, and I don't even really mention that he said that we lured Lajos Kósa into a foreign currency loan trap, among other things, and Antal Rogán, and he didn't indicate that the exchange rate at the change of government was about 185 Swiss francs, which has since deteriorated considerably. So this whole foreign currency loan problem? But that's not what your proposal is about, so I'd just like to comment on that briefly? Well, some government measures have caused it very deeply, so it's not that black and white in the world. I think you probably shouldn't have asked that question in this regard. As far as the proposal is concerned, I think that this is partly going back to where we came from in the period 2009-2010 with regard to Avas, and it is indeed an opportunity that if the municipality undertakes, for example, to renovate the real estates and put out a tender to help job creation, labour force retention and stay in place, it could be a normal and acceptable goal. Once again, that's what motivated us at the time when police apartments were set up on Ava. How much further could we go if this had gone on, and this whole issue might have been dealt with by now. However, I would like to raise one aspect. I have been talking about Miskolc for a good ten minutes, and you have quite rightly put this proposal here, but this legislation affects a lot of people, hundreds of thousands of people in this country, and the exception may also affect citizens who we cannot necessarily identify today, who may be citizens in many parts of the country. There may be citizens who have acted in good faith in their own destiny, and I will not say that they have been caught up in a debt trap, without their own fault, but let us say, with good faith. Could these citizens be confronted with this amendment you have proposed, where appropriate? How do I put this? ? not so empathetic, and I'm not saying maliciously, but let's just say, there are some municipalities that are not so empathetic, and such unspeakable debtors can be in a difficult situation. So I suggest that the Legislative Committee, when preparing its report, should consider it? will there obviously be a number of proposals and a lot of things can be said in the general debate? How can this legislation be clarified in such a way as to clarify the proposal of the Member, so that it is in no way possible for bona fide Hungarian citizens to be in a difficult situation because, hopefully, with good intentions and obviously the will of the Miskolcs, politics is trying to resolve this issue on Avason, even if it is late, but at least now it is trying to solve it. So what I'm saying is that if you manage to make this clarification, it's definitely a direction of amendment that could be an important step in the eradication of the nesting problem in Miskolc. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2014-10-20-331	Thank you very much. It would now be for the Christian Democratic People's Party group, but there is no one present. This brings us to the Jobbik Group. Jobbik indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. Obviously, there's as much time as one of them would say. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-332	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! As you can see, two very serious problems are mixed up in this legislative proposal, two serious problems that have been on the Parliament's table for many years and partly on the table of the Miskolc municipality. But this has been constantly included in the previous cycle, problems related to the nesting programme in Miskolc, questions, interpellations, suggestions for solutions and so on. So that's where this came in. But the most serious thing that was here is the problem of foreign exchange creditors, which the Hungarian Parliament has not been able to solve for more than four years now. We, the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, stated at the very beginning when we entered Parliament how we would try and solve this. We have made proposals for this. [[23.00]] On the other hand, he has always tried to solve only a tiny segment of the two-thirds majority, the tiny segment of the two-thirds majority, also in a very slow step, pulling away, it has been four and a half years to find this solution under the two-thirds majority. We can even see that in six months there will be no solution, or what will be, a half - solution, and that will not be fair. We may even say that it may not even be legal, and that a fair decision will not be taken in this way, until if Jobbik's proposal had been followed by this House, it could have been closed in one year, and indeed a fair, reassuring situation could have been brought out of it. So right now, there are two serious problems that we're trying to solve in this little bill in some way. On the one hand, by making the decision, Parliament is practically unanimous that we have ordered a moratorium to evacuate the apartments, to continue the enforcement procedures, this is virtually suspended by the power of the law. A solution, a semi-solution seems to have been born, and here is the problem of Miskolc, which wants to solve more apartments, renovate the apartments, maintain them with integrity, move into these apartments by people who would live in Miskolc, work in Miskolc, who would do work locally. Very nice principles. We are talking about very nice principles, because the municipality's task is to get its population home, so that everyone has a suitable home. Its task is to make our environment liveable, to make these apartments liveable, to keep their surroundings in order. This is always an important process. That's a very nice principle. It is also a very nice principle not to get people on the streets, to have the right to the roof, to have a moratorium until the final decision is reached, not to evict anyone, but these two principles are collapsing. It is colliding, and this is what the bill is trying to resolve in some way, whether there is a solution, whether the goat should be fed and the cabbage should be preserved. Well, one thing's for sure, there's no good solution in this case. And if you look at it here, you can even see two fundamental conflicts, or two principles conflict in this case. At the time when the change of regime took place or started, there was a huge social debate about ownership. In socialism, social property, i.e. public property and the forms of property embodying it, were obviously high-ranking property, which was practically a higher form of ownership than private property, which could almost not be called that. I think, at the moment, this bill will violate the principle of rights of right to property rights, which was Crystalled in 1988-89-90, because somewhere we will return to the fact that, yes, there are people who owned it, who had an immovable property, and they have been put under enforcement at the moment. There is another part, a small part, where the requesting execution is not a private individual, not a bank, not a company, but a municipality, and we highlight this from all the others, and we say that in this case the principle that there is a moratorium on eviction will not be taken into account, just because there is a municipal or state ownership claim behind it, the applicant for execution. Then can we take the fact that we consider property needs to be different? Is it different if I, as a private owner, as a company, as a cft. or as anything, than if the municipality or the state could do it? If we do so, what fundamental principle of law will we be violating, seriously violating, or violating? This is a very important question, however, as I have said, that it is very beautiful, which is written in this law. It's very nice that the municipality is doing renovations. It will renovate and renovate it to support job creation and home creation, to provide workers in the settlement with this opportunity to work there, to get a rental. This will also facilitate childbearing in the settlement. The settlement becomes more habitable, more livable. In every way, it's a good thing. But is it possible to violate a fundamental ownership principle? If we look at who is interested in this new legislation, we clearly see that it is a municipal interest. We have also seen that legislation has often been made for individual reasons, not only in the last four years, but has been made ever since. Here, for the sake of Miskolc, there would be a national principle of whether we should do this in this case, which will also be one of those questions. In the previous speech, we could finally hear the interests, which were not yet so exclusivityally expressed, that, if I understand correctly, 173 apartments were actually purchased by the local government. In this case, we see that there is such a demand, which would result in 173 breaches of these ownership principles. The question is, is this how it's supposed to be done? This will be my most important question as to whether it is really possible to resolve with a breach of such a principle, whether there is no other way to come up with what has been put forward here in this bill. To be honest, it is a difficult question to make on this issue, since there is the interest of the Miskolcs and there are legal principles. So it is possible to make a political decision, to make a legal decision on this issue. I'm not sure any of them will be better. The next thing you know, it's possible to abuse it. I do not want to say that I would assume that the municipality of Miskolc would abuse this, but even watering up such a kind of watering down the principles or violations of the principles may, where appropriate, result in a situation which would trigger a series of violations of law or unintended events of the will of the legislators. But we need to see one thing. One thing we need to see is this eviction moratorium will be eliminated. What my fellow Member, Katalin Csöbör, said that some people are treating this as an ethnic conflict, I think it cannot be treated as an ethnic conflict, because both legislation, regardless of which ethnicity it affects, must be affected by several ethnicities, must apply equally to everyone, and must apply equally to all cities and all settlements in the country. This cannot in any way be treated as an ethnic conflict. This is, on the one hand, the problem of a country, the problem of foreign exchange lenders, and, on the other hand, the problem of the city of Miskolc, which I do not think we should solve with a central legislative system, in this case, the problem of the city of Miskolc, especially by violating such a principle. But since I would like to give Z. Carpathian time to Daniel, I will give him the floor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-20-333	Thank you very much for helping me with my work, so the floor is for Congressman Z. Carpath. You have a little over five and a half minutes. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-334	Mr President, Dear House, There is a very interesting and specific proposal before us, which actually releases the spirit from the bottle from the local context, let us be honest. There's a lot of nasty thoughts in a man's head. Even a town planning plan in Miskolc would be supported with a sincere justification, if indeed the job creation and home creation goals were on paper, supplemented with facts, concretes, intentions, visions, I would say that it would be eligible. But let us consider what may happen nationwide if the municipalities acquire the right to purchase real estate behind the affected fallen loans, at a price which, as a result of the background agreements with the banks, is very printed, let us say, 10-15 per cent. This is good for the banks, because it is typically an unsellable demand, and although I do not suspect that the majority of Hungarian governments would be rich in money and could replace a huge tens of thousands of real estate, I claim that there are local authorities in Hungary that can be persuaded, that there is a bank, a financial institution background lobby, and that they can be forced, in particular, in the case of indebted municipalities, to make a bank rescue package here. [[23.10]] And that's how they let the spirit out of the bottle? not only is the eviction moratorium suspended, because Jobbik has always said that it supports the moratorium for every Hungarian citizen who follows the law, and here it is very important to point out that, in the case of self-occupators, it is not possible to support such a thing, in the case of persons unable to live together in society? It is important to see here that, given the economic background, harmful processes can indeed begin, lobbyists can move by releasing this spirit from the bottle, which may pose dangers in the future. And we have to say, we have to be very serious about making this proposal eligible or not. But it was the explanatory part that really upset the man because you mentioned the price barrier, the National Asset Manager. In connection with the National Asset Manager, it was also said at the State Secretary level that Hungary's last time was the largest rental-building or rental-acquisition program, while all that happened was that Hungarian people were deprived of their own home, their own habitat. But if we were talking about home creation, it would have been good to see at national level and also at local level how rent apartments are built, who creates a statement of almost half a million empty properties that will reveal how much can be returned to everyday life, how young people's emigration can be slowed down, how well thought out and structured programs can really bring jobs there. So here the horse's foot hangs out a little bit in the sense that it is not a very important part of a thoughtful concept, but it is a matter of local interests, and once again, of the movement of life-threatening lobbying interests against which Jobbik will, of course, do everything in its power. The lifeline to the banks would obviously be unsuitable to you, but the problem is that when these processes are discovered and, if necessary, we can only see retroactively from the perspective of several years that this was the point at which you will probably no longer be in government. So the thing is, we have to be very smart about it now, so if you want to put your head on a home-building program, then let the current two-thirds government do it nationwide, because the budget has a set of homes. But you're gonna build a new apartment out of this? No, they're not built. You put a barrier to the exchange rate of 2.0s in favour of the contracts, filling the pockets of the banks, and what is happening in the case of larger municipalities and indebted municipalities also arises in this case. In exchange for more favourable conditions and longer term terms, the creditor financial institution forces the local leaders to make a back-up deal that, yes, at a value of 10 or 15 percent, the debts due can be purchased by the municipality, perhaps even the property mass will increase, the main problem is that again the opportunity does not reach the needy young Hungarians working in the productive and productive sector, but just slips away again. These are lobbyists that Jobbik rejects with all its might. Obviously, we can support the launch of a home creation programme, the creation of a job, and also the temporary or permanent dissolution of the evacuation moratorium in certain cases in the case of elements unable to live together or committing crimes, but then the justification contains what is real. In this case, perhaps it is not a coincidence that the general justification describes only what lies before us, but it does not contain any ideological background for the future, a strategic vision, precisely because it should be written there that what they have put before us, in fact, for what reason, for what purpose and in the knowledge of what dangers they have put before us. As long as this has not happened, it would be very hard to support this proposal with good heart. Obviously, it would be your job to convince us that, in the absence of a substantive debate, the odds are minimal, but we give up the last hope that you will not be throwing a lifeline for the banks in 2014. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-335	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-336	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is, of course, entirely unacceptable, and the reasons have been said partly by the opposition colleagues before me. On the other hand, I would like to point out that, in recent years, we have repeatedly said from several opposition groups that we should no longer weld the LIII of the year. law, we need a new enforcement law, or at least the implementation system should be fundamentally changed. It is true that migration-dissolving constantly masks the problem of the fact that the change that the Parliament made in 94, the release of the implementation system from the state institution system, has created the executive chamber, which is a hotbed for the many abuses that have peaked in the entire foreign currency credit crisis. It has to be said openly that today the enforcement system is being woven through corruption, the lives of many families have been bitter not only by the foreign exchange loan trap, but also by the way the executive system has contributed not to the management of this crisis, but rather to the roofing of it. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State, since I think, if I remember correctly, that Mr Tarnai had already made a promise in connection with a motion to prepare him; I am sorry, it was not Secretary of State Rétvári, but Bence Rétvári, then still a multifunctional Secretary of State, then he made a frivolous promise as the Secretary of State of Justice that the government would reconsider the reform of the implementation system and consider re-supervising the enforcement body of justice. It would be good to have a motion before the House in this regard. Dear Parliament, Our first and foremost objection to this proposal? Is it similar to what Congressman Gyure has just said? The fact that we have seen many tailor-made legislative proposals from Fidesz has always come up with such an innocent motion, and of course it is not unknown that you are trying to transform the whole country's legislation into a local problem, according to local interests. This is a complete mistake. At a time when we are not sitting in a local body of representatives, but in the Hungarian Parliament, rather than a law on a place? such as the Margaret Island or the City Park Act? Parliament creates legislation for every city, every settlement from Sopron to Kisvárda, then it cannot be based on an Avasi, a problem in Miskolc, without any impact assessment to bring an enforcement amendment to the House; or it may not be necessary to vote on it. This bill is based solely on an otherwise serious problem for a city, and it wants to fundamentally change its implementation rules, at least as regards the special enforcement standards for those who have suffered foreign exchange credit, without examining what this change involves in different parts of the country. This is a serious irresponsible thing, and just as we have not been partners with any personalised law, we obviously cannot accept a law that is trying to change a national rule solely because of the individual political interests of a local Member. The next problem is that it is not very clear how the Member State or the Government thinks it at all. At the time, perhaps a year ago, LMP came up with a package of solutions for the foreign exchange credit crisis, one of which was that the banks were banned by Parliament from transferring their claims. You've swept this proposal off the table, and now you're opening a loophole for the banks on the possibility of factoring left open. Let us be clear: that is what this bill is about. With this bill, you do not want to create jobs, with this bill, you will let the banks through the loophole that the LMP proposal was intended to close. As early as January, we put a bill before this House, so that banks that have disturbed people and consumers into foreign exchange credit traps with such unfair transactions should face credit-damaged ones and not transfer their claims. [[23.20]] Because what is this proposal about? The foreign exchange loan rescue package specifically provides for an enforcement moratorium in the event of foreign exchange credit defaults. This proposal, presented to us by Katalin Csöbör, dissolves this implementation moratorium, but banks cannot, on the basis of the foreign exchange rescue package, be in a position to request implementation, since banks cannot be in a position to auction residential property at all. But the only thing banks can do is transfer their claims, factor in the claim arising from the foreign exchange credit transaction, and this claim is transferred nicely to semi-criminal collecting companies, but can be transferred to municipalities, state and local government companies. Now, I think that, after the proposal that we put on Parliament's table in January with my fellow Members Ertsey and Editing at the time, it was precisely from the point of view that once people have been fooled with unfair transactions for years, then banks should not escape through loopholes, but should carry on the transactions, they should, if appropriate, face the families who have been crippled. We cannot accept any proposals that wish to help banks through this open loophole. Thirdly, our most important legal objection to the bill is also linked to what my fellow Member Gyüre has just asked: this bill contradicts the clause of the Fundamental Law that ensures equality of law. If this bill is passed by the Parliament? And I'm very surprised that the Secretary of State has given his support to this bill? , then there will be a multitude of constitutional complaints before the Constitutional Court, and there is no doubt about how the Constitutional Court will decide. Perhaps there is agreement among the factions that foreign exchange credit victims can be regarded as a homogeneous group of debtors. But is it that we distinguish within a homogeneous group, which is not related to any of the characteristics of the members of the homogeneous group, but that a group which is completely independent of them is related to the person requesting implementation? since it has no effect on the member of the homogeneous group, namely the credit-damaged consumers, on how the bank transfers their claim to, to whom, or to a collecting company, or on a local government or municipal company? It is quite simply unconstitutional discrimination within the members of the homogeneous group. I am very surprised at my fellow lawyer, Imre Vas, that he did not find himself here on this constitutional breach. What do you think? What kind of constitutional justification is there for discrimination within the group of credit-damaged persons according to whether the eviction moratorium is due or not, or, where applicable, who the applicant for enforcement is. If the execution seeker is a private company, a private individual, then he can't be evicted, then? so to speak? The law, the parliament, enjoys the benefits of a credit damage; the credit damage, whose misfortune happens to be at the end of the factoring chain, is a municipal, state or state government body, so it has been, he has been sucking up the whole story. What were you thinking? What were they thinking? ! What is the constitutional justification for this distinction beyond the fact that Katalin Csöbör, as a member of Miskolc, obviously knows something about the plans of the municipality of Miskolc, but doesn't he mind that the territorial scope of an enforcement law is not usually Miskolc, Avas residence? So it's obvious that this Vht. amendment is going to bleed out at the Constitutional Court sooner or later, there's going to be a creditor who's had a legal disadvantage who's going to take this whole story with a constitutional complaint. You obviously don't mind being put in a bill like this because of political laurels, how much extra suffering this will cause such a family, and the Constitutional Court will piss off this bill. What a new situation will arise when the constitutional complaint is successful and closed enforcement cases will have to be reopened, obviously this will not bother you again. And to look at the social policy goals of this whole proposal, beyond the legal arguments: this whole approach is completely unacceptable. It may be very funny for the congresswoman, but I think that giving any municipality a means to exchange people on a social basis is completely unacceptable, because it is not only a law for Miskolc, it means that from now on any municipality, if they think they want to reorganize relations within the city, it is a means to do so. Let's keep moving. Why do you think that cleaning nests from the Avas colony, so to speak, would solve any social problems? In the local government campaign in Miskolc, we said that we should first not think about urban rehabilitation, but about social rehabilitation. It may be very funny to you, but have you thought about it? Don't you ever think about it because usually laws are brought here without your interest in the consequences? That the people who get kicked out of, say, the Avas colony and move a few settlements away, then these social problems, they're gonna be back on Miskolc in, like, three or five years? Where do these people get their jobs? How are these people going to get extra training? How are these people even going to get any kind of training? You are unconscionably trying to hit a problem by not trying to deal with the root causes of the problem. And obviously, it must also be said that the whole reasoning of this bill, its spirituality, is deeply hypocritical. Are you talking about job creation? Congresswoman! Do you have data in your hand when you bring a bill like this here, which area of the country is where the lack of mobility is really the barrier to job creation? Do you have any idea which cities, which regions are where employment problems arise precisely from the lack of large community housing? Because, of course, you are right that this is one of the reasons for the prolonged employment crisis, but the fact is that this large community housing stock is missing from Budapest, missing from Győr, missing from the cities where there is a job where there is a developing industry, and that there is no way that long-term unemployed people can settle there in Borsod, because there is no community housing stock where they can rent apartments at affordable prices. This is not the primary problem of Borsod, Miskolc, beyond the fact that the development of the community rentals could not be dealt with by welding the enforcement law, welding a special problem. You know perfectly well that the number of apartments that we are talking about will not solve anything about the development of the Hungarian community rentals. This would also happen to involve local authorities, the municipality of Miskolc, which would not need to be amended by the implementing law. This is an incompetent attempt to quote a classic. There is only one purpose out of this bill: the congresswoman wants to fulfill it, it is politically completely understandable, but therefore to destroy the enforcement law [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] the entire 93,000 square kilometres, without its effects being assessed, is quite simply unconscionable, and this bill will still welcome you back from the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-337	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There is now an opportunity for an independent Member to speak up if he wishes to make use of it. [[Laszlo Varju: No.]] You don't want to live with that. In this case, a two-minute speech is possible. Congressman László Varga has spoken, MSZP. Here you go. [[23.30]]
u2014-10-20-338	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am in a strange situation, and I was sure that this would come sooner or later, because as an opposition, I am a representative of Miskolc, and I have many situations where I have to express myself first of all in the interests of the Miskolcs. This is also what I did when I seemed to have a serious conflict with the author, as I told him that the Vice President of Fidesz had hired a prime defendant in one of the cases, according to an article in which this criminal organization might still have been formed, and this amazing condition was planned by Avason. On this issue, I am obviously maintaining, even with the Member, that the Avassians and the Miskolcs need answers. However, from the accusations of several opposition representatives, it sounds strange, but I would protect the congresswoman, I don't think she wanted to open a loophole for the banks. I don't even think he wants to, say, beat up the Vht. I really believe that, by the way, you have made this proposal because you want to resolve this issue where appropriate. Obviously, it has a political interest in this, but I believe that those who look at this issue from the point of view of Miskolc and have been near such real estate, in such real estate, or are aware of this problem, regardless of how this problem arose, I had a different opinion on this, I asked questions, this is a different question, but I have to say, the solution is necessary. I would like to emphasise once again, which is why I asked for a word in two minutes, which I said at the end of my speech, that until the report of the Legislative Committee, it is possible for us to try to make a proposal, perhaps a piece of legislation that will stand the test of constitutionality. I know it's hard. It's really hard. But I'm asking everyone to make an attempt on this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time frame by jogging the bell.]] 'Cause it's an important case that would help a lot of miskolcs. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-339	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Répássy asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-340	Thank you for the floor. I asked for the floor, although I am not sure that I can convince Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, because we both know and I said in my speech, this particular exception to the implementation moratorium already exists in the Act of Enforcement 303. Paragraph (10). So the legal solution proposed by the Congresswoman is not new, but a solution known in the Vht. It will consistently go through the relevant legislation. It is therefore possible to ask whether this provision is constitutional, but it is certain that it should not be the first to speak against the motion submitted by the Member's own representatives, but rather against the existing Vht. That's why I asked for the floor. On the other hand, I wanted to be careful, since I myself was a miskolc. I do not know if my fellow Members László and Katalin lived like me on Avas, because I lived in the Avas estate, so I know the environment quite precisely. Anyway, the point is, I didn't want to focus on the problem in Miskolc. I think a high level of misconception should be assumed if someone thinks that this rule can be abused by a local government. Obviously, mass abuse should occur, and those living in the territory of the municipality will notice if the municipality wants to abuse this rule. I think we should assume that this bill is for good faith purposes. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2014-10-20-341	Thank you very much. Well, well, at such a late hour, it turns out they even know each other's first names. That's very commendable. So I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, who also asked for a two-minute contribution.
u2014-10-20-342	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, Mr Secretary of State is right about the fact that, yes, the construction is indeed the Vht itself. raises constitutional problems as a whole. I would just add that, when it comes to the continuation of the foreign exchange rescue package, it should in particular be justified why such discrimination could otherwise be justified constitutionally within the scope of the law on the sole basis of the person seeking enforcement. In any case, let me add that what is lacking in such a proposal is that if I look at the social policy side, I might want to see the exact numbers. The lack of housing in different regions of the country should be seen, in which city, county or region at all the percentage of the Community's housing population in the housing sector, and this should be compared with employment indicators. Without this reference, because the text of the bill refers to employment aspects, it is quite simply a fraud. We do not know how well this reference is based, and the purpose to replace it with the law is not presented. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-343	Thank you. We now return to the normal comments of your representatives. First, the speakers who have been notified will take the lead. Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik, please.
u2014-10-20-344	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, There is a reason why I waited for the long debate and, despite the late hour, I would like to address it. I'll get to the details in a minute. However, let me say that when I first saw the proposal on the agenda and saw that the law on judicial enforcement was being touched, I opened the agenda with great anticipation. I would have expected a massive piece of material from the Ministry, in which at least the whole system is proposed to be transformed, even in the direction of a non-profit state court enforcement, thus eliminating the system of profit-oriented court executions, this economic slaughterhouse system, which is currently in place in court executions. I didn't find this. I hope that one day this will come before the Parliament, which I have just said, and we very much hope that the government will not delay. What we did find, however, was to warm up or carry on an earlier proposal. In that case, the Secretary of State is right, he has been here before the Parliament. But some new things have just been said. By the way, I could agree with András Schiffer on many legal arguments. In the meantime, I told my fellow Member Schiffer that, as long as the lawyer spoke of it, I could agree with the faction leader of the LMP, that part of it, especially the dissecting of social issues or the setting of the subject as a social issue, I see it differently. But when Katalin Csöbör presented this earlier, right away, in the committee department, that was our idea, not knowing that it was about Miskolc? Of course, because you're a member of Miskolc, you can't just submit a bill for Miskolc? We didn't know that, I say, but at the committee meeting, we said exactly the same things, which is partly what my fellow Member Schiffer is saying now, why we are making a difference between a debtor and a debtor. So someone can't be held accountable or put in a worse position because he owes, say, to the municipality, or his foreign currency loan debt was bought by the municipality from a bank, and therefore he will be enforceable and evictable compared to his neighbour, whose debt remained with the bank. This is a huge distinction between the two debtors, which I find difficult to establish legally. Even though you are trying to justify the justification, because you may feel that there is a problem, there may be a constitutional deficit, since it is described that the constitutional justification is that the establishment of jobs is a condition for the survival and residence of the settlement and its residents. If we put the reasons in the two pans of the balance sheet, this alone does not establish a distinction between the debtor and the debtor. But when this first came up at the committee meeting, it was not said here in Parliament that it was specifically about Miskolc and the Eviction of the Nest Puzzle. [[23.40]] Is that a huge difference, because, by the way, what was formed in Miskolc on Avason and other areas? I've been to Miskolc a few times myself? That's unacceptable. There's something to be done about this. We agree on that. Another question was how they would do so, and it would have been good if, in this explanatory statement and in the previous case, what our fellow Member Csöbör had tabled had been that the main purpose of this was to resolve the situation in Miskolc. Why this was a problem or what problems we couldn't know here in the National Assembly, I would like to quote a press report or a press conference from the local Fidesz, because the goodies there were accused of Jobbik's not supporting the settlement of the situation in Miskolc and the eviction of nests here, even though they didn't tell us that this was the case. Then we could have decided that this was an appropriate instrument, or perhaps we could have considered supporting the proposal if it were in the best interests of the city of Miskolc. Here I have to quote Attila Soós, spokesperson for the Fidesz-KDNP Miskolc faction, who attacked Jobbik's parliamentary faction in a demagogic manner and through it the local betteries. He said in his press conference at City Hall, he sent an open letter to Gábor Vona, President of Jobbik, expressing personal indignation that Jobbik's parliamentary representatives were disfellowshipping antisocial elements from Miskolc...? I'm sorry, could it be a slip-up? In the case of his removal, they switched to the side of MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány. Do you find it unacceptable and shameful? You mean Attila Soós? that, in a case as important to the Miskolcs as the eviction of the nests, Jobbik and MSZP rejected the will of the majority of the Miskolcs in accordance with the proposal of Katalin Csöbör, when they voted against the amendment at the committee meeting and in plenary. In fact, the communication is still going on, and what they are saying is that they are calling on Gábor Vona to apologize to the tens of thousands of people in Miskolc, Avas and Diósgyőr. Is this communication really weird in light of that? I'm telling you? that you have not indicated that this is the case at the committee meeting or here at the Parliament meeting. I know, because I was at the committee meeting, and we specifically asked if there was any reason that would go beyond this proposal. I don't think that's fair, and then I put it politically delicately. So I would like to point out that the accusations made by the local Fidesz could have been made either because the local Fidesz did not read the proposal that Katalin Csöbör put forward, I can imagine this, or if you have read it, it was simply a despicable political attack on the goodies in Miskolc. But to conclude this part: you would now like to take this line of thought forward with the proposal tabled, and here we have come to the problem of making a decision here in Parliament. This explanatory statement didn't say it was about Miskolc. Did you at least say it here now? Is this a step up from the previous one? But I don't know how we're gonna resolve this dilemma. Is this supposed to be a problem for our faction? Can you think of that? that we want to support the processes of Miskolc, as regards the regulation of nesting sites and the creation of normal conditions, but this proposal does open the door too wide and will not only apply to Miskolc. And indeed, there will be cases where it is particularly offensive to certain debtors, and perhaps other municipalities will be able to take advantage of the possibility of buying up certain claims. Is that why András Schiffer turned that around anyway? As a lawyer, do I understand this perfectly? , what if the municipalities... Who knows how long this moratorium will take, when this may end, or may be extended, or how long it will take to settle the situation, but the municipalities or state firms that can take advantage of this opportunity may buy claims from banks, and thus find a loophole in the system, because this procedure can be launched. And I stress that we are talking here about the fact that, from a bank or a financial institution lending a currency, the municipality takes over this debt, because normally, let's say, a rent debt is not in foreign currency, so they must be factored towards the municipality, because here we are talking only about foreign currency debts. For other debts, which, say, may exist towards the municipality with a debtor, eviction could have worked at the moment. So that's all I wanted to say. I wanted to emphasize the Miskolc case and the genderless accusations there, and I'm asking you to find a solution like that? I don't know how to get that out of this proposal. which closes the loopholes and, moreover, does not remain like in this proposal. This is also strong discrimination, if the bank gets to the point where the municipality buys the debt from the bank, starts the execution, but if it is not the buyer, the process stops immediately. And here the question is not necessarily the stopping of the process, but the distinction again. The guy who's being evicted from his apartment, I don't think it's gonna matter? Now, in general, am I not talking about Miskolc if I misunderstand? In fact, who of the two customers bought it: the municipal company or a private individual, he has to leave the apartment compared to that. In this case, I think it's unfair for debtors, but as I said, it's different from solving the Miskolc case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-345	Thank you very much. Here are the speeches by the Members who have asked for a normal word. First, Congressman Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Here you go.
u2014-10-20-346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the history first, because Congresswoman Csöbör has also introduced the issue of foreign exchange lending in the same way as this bill. If I remember correctly? I think so, yeah? , then 2001 is the time when foreign exchange lending is up to its head, practically starting processes. As I recall, Orbán, Matolcsy and Jálai called the people who, as prime minister and minister, as bank manager [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: President of the National Bank.]] were involved in the preparation and approval of the processes. I'm just saying this because it's always worth knowing where things come from, where they start, where they go, and in this process, where they start, where they go? In relation to what he does in relation to cases. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You reap what you sow.]] 2001, 2010? I am listening to Lajos Kósa in the walls of Parliament during the 2010 change of government. I'm not sure if Péter Szijjártó is next to him or Antal Rogán, but I'm sure in Lajos Kósa: quasi bankruptcy, the forint is gone. They know the exchange rates of Swiss francs or euros before 2010: 180, 260, if I remember correctly. Maybe we know what's going on today. The Swiss franc is 250, around 310 euros. Obviously, in terms of foreign exchange creditors, this process has increased the burden on the move in a moderate manner. Not 5-10 percent, 30-50 percent, in a moderate way. I would also add that, in addition to the development of foreign exchange rates, after four years, they still did not intend to forint these loans by 2014. They talk about the year 2015, 18, 23, 72. They don't talk about it. I'm just going to visit because I can see what's been going on for four years, what they're doing in this regard. [[23.50]] At the same time, perhaps one small thing at the end of this thought: they made a final payment, the beneficiaries of which were those who did not pay back HUF 1-2 million, but HUF 30-50 million. Again, if I remember correctly? And I think so, yes? There are also people in Parliament who have paid back in this magnitude. There's nothing wrong with that. There is nothing wrong with that, and they spared themselves 5-10 million forints. No, that's not the problem. Morally, morally, especially by saying again, if I remember correctly? And I think I remember it right? Then a law was passed that the National Tax and Customs Office could not examine the origin of these resources. I mean, you can't examine the origin of these 30-50 million forints. These are some strange laws. Are these weird measures, just because they weren't all about the people who - quote? In a miserable situation, in a state of poverty, they had to solve these problems, but again it was about those who were far, far richer than the people mentioned above. Well, so much for history. Since my fellow Member, László Varga, spoke about how and how many people got to the real estate within the framework of this Nestrakó, which requires practically criminal proceedings, and how and by whom, have they succeeded in realising this, I would like to say a lot about this, but I would like to recommend it to my fellow Members, perhaps by two weeks. I'm not sure? to read his interview, not his interview, or his article. In terms of involvement, many probably did not say irresponsiblely, therefore, that there is something close to Fidesz in this story that this situation has evolved? Well, I can't question any of this. So the point is that something happens when you bring a problem to life, and then after you bring the problem to life, after this story escalates, you show up at the end as the saviors, so that we can solve it and save it. I would like to remind you again of what my fellow Member Varga said: 2008. In 2008, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party filed a complaint in this case. Then, in 2012, László Varga, other Members, I, myself, made a bill that was basically about how and how this issue could be dealt with, and if the method of handling it had been accepted, supported, helped, then the many concerns of András Schiffer and others would not have been on the table today, because the problem would have been solved by now. It was not a question for you, and it was not a question of how and how to move forward in solving the problem, but a solution to the story rather than a proposal from opposition politicians or opposition politicians. It does not matter that two years later, as can be done, it is important that a representative or representatives of Fidesz make some sort of proposal for a solution to this story, and that issue should be resolved in the process. Again, I have to say that I see that it was not in the best interests of the people who motivated their actions. In my view, this question could have been resolved long ago if you did not want to make a policy on this matter only, but with regard to the things of the people who live there, their daily sufferings - can I say? they wanted to deal with this issue in mind. And if I look at it from a slightly different perspective, while taking into account the law of the year on judicial enforcement itself, which has already been amended several times as regards virtually the eviction moratorium and the introduction of many others, the date on 15 May 2014 was the date on which it was based on the reason for protecting the home-credit holders until the law planned to assist foreign exchange lenders was adopted. Did this kind of protection not apply to debtors whose residential property has to be emptied in the enforcement procedure and the housing in the case of the municipality buying it? Like what we're talking about here? , using its resources, it serves as a location for those who work in the settlement. I would like to point out that the most natural thing in the world is that in the life of every settlement in Hungary, it appears in the focus, in the centre, as one of the first questions to have a job for people, as many people live in the settlement as possible, who can produce tax forints, appear as a contributor, who is present in bearing public burdens. Of course. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But I would also like to add that, over the past four years, you have pursued a policy that, if we are talking about Miskolc in the walls of Parliament in particular, a problem in Miskolc, I must also say that the number of economic refugees in the last four years is very significant for Miskolc and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County. It's not ten, it's not a hundred, it's not a thousand, it's tens of thousands. From that county. About Miskolc. What I'm trying to say is that you're creating a situation. You say that it is necessary to create jobs while, with your policies, people with tens of thousands of jobs in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County were virtually driven away from Miskolc by this country. Now this is the focus on the justification for creating jobs and, on the basis of this condition, to visualize a situation that will, in practice, provide a place of establishment for people with this intention to work through the liberating housing. All in all, I would like to say, in addition to this, that the clause that concerns the general rules of the enforcement procedure in the case of those who are indebted to residential property will apply if the request for a final decision is made? And these two conditions or three? in respect of a local government or a 100% public company, it will be renovated within two years and rented for the purpose of job creation, the guarantees of which do not appear to be justified. The point is that the court decides whether, on the basis of the documents submitted by the municipality requesting enforcement or by the company, the debtor may be subject to more favourable, so to speak, rescue packages. I would like to ask you where the guarantee is that, if this happened, these properties would fall into the hands of the municipality or the company, and these conditions would not be met, will not be renovated, will not be rented with the intention of creating jobs, then what will happen. Nothing is happening, because, in terms of conditions, it is not determined that this must be done, but that the story must begin with this intention. Overall, translated into Hungarian, I want to say that this is an existing problem that we are talking about, and a problem that needs to be solved in the life of the city. Yes, because the life situation, which may have developed in certain areas of Avas, cannot be maintained in normal conditions in the long term. [[0.00]] I'm telling my fellow Member Robert, who is also the Secretary of State? Because we know each other, just like he knows Katalin and Laszlo? That I have lived on Avas for seven years, so I know the internal structure and the problem of Avas quite well, and therefore I dare say with a calm spirit that it may not be necessary to find legal solutions to deal with the problem in an absolute manner, specific ones, possibly contradictory ones, or even those that become questionable, but that the solution to the problem must be done, I am sure of that. And once again, the solution to this problem could have been done a long time ago. After 2008, when the report was launched, in 2012, when the proposal came between Parliament's walls and asked for budgetary assistance, and if you, my fellow Members, who are important to the city of Miskolc and Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, were to come forward in support, then today we would not have to try to move this type of bitter, forced solutions between Parliament's walls, which will later be discussed later by other Members of Parliament from the opposition side, not necessarily by socialists, and then on the stage of constitutionality, whether it is all right. One thing is certain, the question has to be resolved, but once again, you were not interested in solving the issue in my opinion, but were you interested in making a political balloon out of a well-made problem? Did I tell you his origins from 2001? And now make yourselves look like you're the saviors. No, not the saviors, you pushed the problem out in time. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-347	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Mr László Kiss, Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2014-10-20-348	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I understand the author a little bit, and I would like to protect him a little from my fellow Members Schiffer and Staudt. As an individual Member, I understand that if any Members of Parliament make proposals in this House concerning their own constituency. As a representative of Óbuda, I proposed the extension of tram 1, the renovation of the gas plant and the renovation of the Shipyard Island, so I can understand anyone who, like me, represents a constituency and reflects on the problems of the constituency. With this proposal, I believe that is not the problem, but that it is expanding beyond this. It is expanding beyond this situation because it also concerns issues that go beyond Avas's problem, and I do not think it gives a reassuring answer to these questions. The obligation of an individual representative to represent the constituency does not preclude him from complying with the professionalism of legislation. You have to comply because the law on legislation does not simply write conditions that concern, for example, the need to have an impact assessment. Obviously, this is not a condition for an individual proposal, but this legislation does not impose these things by accident, because in this case it is clear that, if there were such impact assessments, a number of questions from my fellow Members would not have taken place. There would have been no questions about the impact of this change in other areas. There would have been no questions as to what this would mean with regard to banks. There would have been no question of the fundamental legal problems relating to the creditor's person. All of these could have been resolved if the rapporteur had been so cautious. I think this is definitely a mistake in this bill. The flaw of the bill is that if we go a little beyond this and look at what this bill is really about, besides the problems of the Avas colony, we can see that the settlement of the issues of the back-of-chargers is in focus, because this issue is also being discussed, and indeed this bill will change the settlement of the position of the back-of-chargers. And if we get here, it's obvious that the direction itself is wrong. Instead of talking about how we can solve the social crisis that shows a large and growing number of back-payers, we are talking about how we can get people out of their properties and how we can deal with them. The fact is that it is a general experience that people who have public debts, rent debts, or backlogs are very rare when this is only towards one service provider. It is very rare when it comes to the fact that someone owes the municipality hundreds of thousands of forints, but not to utilities. This is a complex problem, usually with some kind of public debt, with a huge backlog to most operators. As an individual Member of Parliament, I am often approached by a similar problem both in Békásmegyeri and in the Óbuda settlements, so I can say that I feel your situation and your situation, because we encounter this situation every day, but not always from the side of the condos, when people complain that there are many people in the affected condominiums who do not pay the rent, do not pay the utility bills and charge it to the community, but very many people from the other side are looking for us by simply being in a social crisis where they can no longer afford to pay these burdens. They are in such a social crisis that they can no longer pay their bills, and every month they decide which account is being settled. out. These are honest and honest people who either have a sudden social crisis, who have been dismissed from their jobs, or who are unable to come out of the scarce pension they are receiving. These people's problems are exacerbated by this solution. He's making it worse because he's pouring down the backseats with a generator that's gonna get their situation back on track. Of course, there were good practices. Until 2010, there was a system in the capital where the metropolitan utility companies and the municipalities, the Metropolitan Municipality, worked together to settle the situation of the back-of-chargers. This programme worked in such a way that the metropolitan utility companies were connected to each other, and the Metropolitan Municipality, as a kind of gestor, as the project supervisor, ensured both legal oversight and the guarantee that the situation of customers and back-up recipients would improve. The treatment was not too complicated, the people in crisis to the capital agreed to participate in the capital's back-up management programme, and in return the service companies agreed not to act independently of each other, and they were partners in helping to alleviate this crisis. By the way, this programme was destroyed and terminated in 2010 as one of the first actions of the Fidesz capital group. There hasn't been a program like this in the capital since you were in power. One of the first measures was that it was abolished. Obviously, this resulted in the fact that the situation of the back-of-chargers has only deteriorated further. If we look back at the previous months and years, do we see that it's not just the Avas colony's problem? Obviously, there was a different way of doing this? The problem of all housing sites is that there is a steady increase in the number of back-of-charges. How is the number of downgraders increasing? Just like the number of non-payers to the municipality. This is a social crisis, but it cannot be dealt with by such administrative measures. You're taking a huge amount of special taxes from utility companies. The question arises among many, including what this money is being spent on. [[0.10]] If this money goes to what you intend to do, in name, to settle the situation of the back-of-chargers, then it actually seems that there can be no obstacle not only in the capital, but also in all areas of the country, to the operation of such or similar programmes. However, this is not the case. In the bottomless hat, the utility company's special taxes disappear while the back-up guys are on their own. I would like to ask you, Mr House, that the purpose of the regulations should not be forgotten in any way. This proposal is not only about Avas, because it concerns a general problem. In this way, however, it can further increase the social crisis that exists in this country. I would like to see programmes that can improve the situation of back-payers, programmes that integrate the social care system, utility companies and, where appropriate, local authorities, to be able to function in an integrated way. The Socialist Party believes that such models are the ones that reduce the social crisis, reduce the number of downgraders, and at the same time provide a solution. However, this requires a slightly larger view. In order to do this, it is not enough to pervert a piece of legislation or to pervert a few pieces of legislation, and to do so, the whole system must be transformed. Convert or reconfigure it as this exemplary model showed in the capital before 2010. I think it's not a shame to go back to well-functioning practices before, it's not a shame to return to tried and good models. That is why I suggest that we try to do the things that have already been done rather than do the job. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-349	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. No further comments were therefore made. I will conclude the general debate and ask Mrs Csöbör, Madam President, if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2014-10-20-350	First of all, I would like to thank the fellow Members for their comments. Of course, as we have heard from my Socialist fellow Member, the problem is not brought to life, but the problem is alive. As of April 2014, I am the individual representative of the Avas Parliament, and in vain we are talking about whether or not there was a problem, and I would like to solve it. I think we want to work it out with another fellow Member of Miskolc. I would therefore ask you to present an amendment instead of or alongside an individual assessment of the situation. Let's not just talk about it, 'cause there's a lot to talk about. I think that the Miskolcs made the right choice when they did not choose a betterman or LMP Member of Parliament, because it seems that they do not want or can not solve this problem. Thank you, of course, for the suggestions, and I will consider them. Nevertheless, I ask you to support my proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2014-10-20-351	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, In the light of the public holidays, amendments may be submitted on Monday 27 October at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow until closure. The separate motion of the Committee on Budgets is T/244. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the detailed discussion of this proposal will be held by the Committee on Culture as a designated committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2014-10-20-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted its draft law on the single budget of the 2013 Media Council, including the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, to the Court of Auditors and the Budget Committee of the National Assembly by the deadline set out in the Media Services and Public Communications Act. The committee submitted to Parliament a bill on the Authority's single budget for 2013, which it also adopted after the hearing. The discharge bill reports on the implementation of four separate budgets, which are as follows. The first is the report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which presents to Parliament the revenue from the entire supervised communications market and the expenditure on official operations. The second is the report by the Media Council of NMHH on the implementation of its operating budget. The third is the report on the development of revenue and expenditure of the Media Council from the media market in 2012. The fourth is the balance sheet of the Media Support and Asset Management Fund, which operates on the basis of a public service contribution. The Authority has drawn up a draft discharge bill on the implementation of the single budget in accordance with the legal requirements, which it submitted to the Parliament's committee responsible for budgetary matters by 31 May following the year in question. The Committee on Budgets decided to submit the bill at its meeting on 10 June. The Authority's total expenditure and revenue was approved at HUF 35 billion and HUF 26 million. The Media Council's operating budget was approved by the Parliament with HUF 126.1 million. The total amount of non-budget revenue and expenditure in 2013 for the management of the Media Council is HUF 4519 million according to the approved appropriations. That's Mttv. 136. Pursuant to paragraph 15 of paragraph 15 of the Acting Body approved the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund for 2013 as an annex to the Authority's single budget of HUF 78 billion, HUF 337 million. Compared to HUF 35 billion in the Act determining the revenue and operation of the Authority, it achieved more than HUF 47 billion. The main reason for this is the use of reserves that were previously approved by Parliament as revenue. The Authority fulfilled its two main tasks in 2013. One was to support the public tasks of the digital changeover and the other was to provide the legal possibility to supplement the operating costs of the Media Service Provider and Asset Management Fund. These two amounts consumed some HUF 14.5 billion. The budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority alone ended with a budget of HUF 20 billion compared to HUF 35 billion in revenue, so in 2013 the reserve that the Authority achieved in the spending was still over HUF 14 billion. This represents savings in all the main appropriations. The Media Council's operating budget also ended with HUF 7.5 million. The initial appropriations of the non-budget revenues of HUF 4519 million show a deficit of approximately HUF 28,6 per cent, of nearly HUF 1.3 billion, the main reason being the net reduction in media service charges of around HUF 906.5 million, based on new contracts, and the HUF 300 million gap in penalties and fines. In 2012, MTVA purchased the headquarters of Kunigunda Street. He took out a loan for the purchase of the headquarters and the related transaction expenses. The complex loan consisted of HUF 36 billion of HUF 629 million of investment loans and HUF 20 billion of working capital loans and HUF 4 billion of overdrafts. On 1 January 2013, the opening stock of the loans was HUF 58 billion for HUF 445 million, while the year-end closing stock was HUF 57 billion for HUF 259 million. [[0.20]] It can be concluded that the NMHH essentially covers its expenditure from its own revenue, thereby ensuring the institutional autonomy of the Authority. The physical and human resources necessary for high professional quality work are available. The management of MTVA has been examined by both the State Audit Office and the Civil Service Budget Council, as well as by the auditor and the supervisory board. MTVA produces its management numbers in two ways, on the one hand, based on double bookkeeping, according to which almost HUF 4 billion was achieved in 2013, and the closing document shows that their management was balanced according to the cash flow statement. Overall, there were few debates on the report at the committee meeting, so I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-353	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the government has indicated in advance that it does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-10-20-354	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Act implementing the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2013 is, indeed, as the author said: it is a well structured law. It reports four or sometimes three budgetary implementations, depending on how we view the Media Council's report. But the point is, can it be said now, as in previous years, that the single budget bill? 'Cause that's what it is? it represents changes in the communications and media markets at the time, in August 2010, and the successor of the National Communications Authority, which is now a government office, is the convergent NMHH, which is now an autonomous regulatory body at the time of its establishment, which covers its expenditure from its own revenue from the communications market and from a contribution from the Fund to cover the expenditure of the Media Council's official organisation. CXCIV 2012 on the 2013 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which contains the Authority's budget. Act adopted by Parliament at its meeting on 3 December 2012 at the end of 2012. In contrast to the planned HUF 35 billion, the actual cash flow revenue is HUF 32.8 billion, which represents a 6.5 percent difference. Did NMHH use the residuals and reserves generated in previous years as an income without cash flow? As we've heard this year? nearly HUF 14.6 billion. They covered the digital changeover programme, the transfer of funds for operational purposes to MTVA. The total revenue of the Authority's budget was nearly HUF 47.4 billion. The cost-effective management resulted in spending of HUF 33.1 billion, a value of two thirds of the revised appropriations. A significant item of expenditure is the HUF 7 billion operating aid transferred to MTVA and HUF 7.5 billion spent on the public tasks of this digital transition. In addition to exceeding the amount of expenditure in rem, its VAT and the transfer of funds under the law, savings are significant for other main appropriations, such as HUF 1.2 billion for personal benefits and contributions and HUF 1 billion for gross accumulation expenditure. The cost-effective farming resulted in a HUF 14.3 billion revenue surplus, the use of which is regulated by the bill. In the second part, the Media Council of NMHH, which carries out the management of budgetary bodies, provides its revenue from the resources of the Fund, can find this in this section. On the basis of the relevant Media Council Decision, taking into account the principle of transparent operation, this budget shall include only the members' fees and the expenses of experts and the amount allocated to the operating support of the co-regulatory bodies. The HUF 7.5 million savings can be used to cover commitments. Revenue from the media market and references to the Fund are included in appropriations outside the budget managed by the Media Council. The budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund is already referred to as the 2012 CXCIV on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2013. The amount of the public service contribution was set out in Annex 3 to Law No 3 to the Act on Media Services and Public Communications (CLXXXV 2010). planned by law based on inflation monitoring in HUF 68.6 billion. In the light of the principle of sound management control, the institution, which is the basis of the accounts of the draft closing accounts submitted, was consulted by independent auditors invited by the Authority and the Media Council, according to which the report gives a reliable and fair view of the implementation of the budgets and the financial, financial and income situation on 31 December 2013. A similar audit report and opinion on the examination of the Fund's budget and management have been prepared, thus it can be concluded that the institutions concerned have carried out their statutory tasks in a transparent manner in compliance with accounting and public finances standards. On this basis, I ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-355	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Lukács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-10-20-356	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. The report of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority cannot, of course, be interpreted independently, as the National Media and Infocommunications Authority supervises and influences MTV, MTV, public radio, public television, Duna Television and Hungarian Radio. Therefore, the functioning and implementation of the budget of this media authority can only be assessed together with these institutions. Our opinion is that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority should not spend HUF 35 billion, but a HUF in Hungary. The National Media and Communications Authority should be forgotten as it is. In our view, the National Media and Infocommunication Authority was illegally brought into the position of a super authority, neither the parliament, the government, nor the responsible ministry can exercise influence over it, and then we no longer talk about society. In fact, the job of the entire communications authority is to put government propaganda public media serving the government in a position to do so, and the other is to put media that do not do so in the most vulnerable and disadvantaged position possible. You're doing this job very hard, by the way. The operation of this authority is not only efficient but unnecessary and wasteful. It's oversized, there's no reason to employ 650 people. This 650 people only have HUF 8.3 billion in personal expenses a year. This means that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority has an average salary of HUF 800,000. Obviously, there are smaller ones and bigger ones, but if you look at the two numbers, you see an average salary of HUF 800,000. This is how they pay those who, at the order of Viktor Orbán, effectively maintain the repression of media freedom in Hungary. There is no personal independence in the bodies supervised by the Authority and there is no economic independence in these bodies. The MTI practically ceased to be a news agency and became a government mouthpiece. But from this MTI, they edit their public media programs, and MTVA exercises supervision without social control, and he is the one who has all the wealth. Therefore, there is no economic freedom or farming freedom at public media. [[0.30]] It is worth mentioning the EGSM auction and this problem, which was so wrong, that they were forced to raise certain detailed rules to the legal level in order to ensure that the judgment of the Curia and the resulting government regulatory requirements could not be complied with, so they attempted to replace the judgment of the Curia. It was written on top of it by law, but they still couldn't cover the fact that the failed frequency auction caused 12 billion HUF damage to the fourth mobile phone and, overall, caused 41 billion HUF damage at budget level. We didn't mention it here, but we should talk about it. Then we should talk about the proposal for a broadband economic operational programme, for which this authority issued 20 billion in the framework of the economic operational programme. 12 companies won the broadband development of 33 small regions, 5 of these 12 companies were fully newly formed, and they received two thirds of the applications, and it is also worth noting that this is more than HUF 12 billion. These 5 companies have the same company creation dates, the same ownership circle, the same company registration data and the same executives, and by the way, the 5 companies are not even close to the small region at all, so there were few who suspected that this proposal could not be conducted fairly under the Orbán government, as in general, the tenders could not be conducted fairly at virtually any level. Then the state mobile company, which you set up, ceased to exist with the aim of creating an indirect state-owned mobile operator, a state-owned mobile operator. Then this company ceased, and according to the statement, the year 2013 ended with a balance sheet loss of HUF 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen. Instead of keeping an eye on impartial information, the media authority is doing exactly the opposite, ensuring that in the public media, only the governing party is practically involved. He doesn't hesitate to forge news, he doesn't shy away from falsifying news reports in different newscasts, hiding public figures from the report, and, of course, it's okay to appoint a proven correspondent to lead the entire news service. In fact, the Hungarian Telegram Office has become the extended hand of the Fidesz press department, and MTVA exercises social control and has control over all of this, and above all is the communication authority we are talking about, on which we have spent 35 billion dollars of tax forints. Of course, it is only a foam on the cake that the media authority has no particular word that MTV, MTV and the various public media are also used as paying places by Fidesz. Failed productions, hundreds of millions thrown out of the window, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority won't say a word in this case, there's no investigation into these matters, they're practically turning a blind eye to all of this. The Fábry show, which will go for another HUF 440 million next year in Hungarian Television, is now spending a total of HUF 1.7 billion in four years, while its ratings are rapidly falling. You can say the case of the court singer Ákos, who wrote the signatures of the Hungarian Television for 26 million HUF plus VAT. I wouldn't analyze the art value here, my little girl could do this on xilop, if I put it in her hand, and she'd count it at a much cheaper rate than that. And the Mars Natives series, for which the Hungarian Television and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority agreed to pay some HUF 841 million. Practically from the beginning, the dog did not watch this series, he fell so far away that he could be heard, but we threw 800 million out the window for it, or nearly 850 million. So, this is how the lie factory called the public media works, where the president of the Supreme Court is simply retouched from the news shows, where the forgery may be news department directors, where Rákay Philip may be the leader, the Rákay Philip who is here? Hungary, I love you! He came up with a wonderful programme titled "Magyar TV and MTVA spent 992 million forints on, almost one billion forints, and he couldn't get into the 20 most watched shows that week for a billion forints, and now he's told that because he's done so well, they want to repeat it again with an even bigger budget next year; then he probably won't be able to make it to the first thirty. So, in this institution, ladies and gentlemen, we should not put a single forint in it, but it should be paid by those who maintain this completely corrupt system. Of course, we will not grant the exemption because of the irregularities in the 2013 management, of course we will not vote in favour of this bill, because we feel that when MTVA, NMHH and all this? In a low-key way? We're giving money to a media network serving a repressive system, so we feel like people are paying from the tax forints to another rumor spreader to mislead them every day. I believe that the auditor found the budget in order, and I believe that this budget is transparent or at least public, because it has to be public by law, it would be quite difficult not to be public about such a budget. I believe all of this, and I consider the operation of the entire media authority and the government media policy marked by the entire media authority to be completely flawed, and therefore we would not give a single HUF to the media authority's budget. This media authority needs to be removed, put on democratic foundations, social control over public media, and then there will be a way, and it will make sense to devote this amount and amount of tax forint to these tasks. Until then, ladies and gentlemen, this is only for the communication authority to execute the party's instructions and push it through the Hungarian public media, and public media is for this to be done and, by the way, to serve as a paying place for Fidesz buddies and friends. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will not vote in favour of NMHH's bill submitted here. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-357	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. You have the floor.
u2014-10-20-358	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The procedure whereby an important state institution, when spending taxpayers' money, controls itself, is unacceptable. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets on the agenda of the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 budget of the NMHH lasted only 42 minutes? That's what the record says. Am I not on the committee? In fact, the discussion of this item may not have taken ten minutes. Madam President of the Media Council? Like the practice of his predecessor who died - unfortunately he did not appear, showing how important it is for him to receive a total of four reports on his organization, the current Hungarian parliamentary accountability, if you can call it that. [[0.40]] At least Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs rightly suggested from a professional point of view how sound the budget could be. If so, significant amounts of remains have been created. The vice-president of the committee, Dr. Lajos Szűcs, had a mysterious remark: "We are just hosts of this thing. Then, with the courage of the blind horse, the committee adopted the financial statements of the media organization with 10 votes in favour, with 4 abstentions, even though again we do not get detailed accounts, but only chapters-related numbers. This is particularly problematic for MTVA, where a single item of 60 billion is settled. Fidesz has liked to apply this in the budget proposals since the beginning of the second Orbán government. So while the previous Zoltán Lukács said that he believes that this budget is transparent, on the one hand it is not a budget, it is a closing account, on the other hand it is not transparent in my view. The management of the fund remains completely opaque, and its purely pro-government supervision is already unacceptable. The effective functioning of the Fund must be managed by the Public Service Foundation, which could at least eliminate the benefit of the doubts surrounding its operation and carry out its supervision at a cheaper and much more efficient rate. By the way, in general, with the money they received, we can say that they have managed well, but maybe that's all we can say. Maybe NMHH's spending on things is a little too much, it's nine billion forints. Although, as the explanatory statement shows, it was mostly the advertising of the digital changeover, but I think that this could have been said as a social advertisement. I still can't get back on the NMHH reserve of HUF 6 billion, as I predicted this already in the 2013 budget debate of NMHH in 2012 that it was almost brazen that the HUF 35 billion budget of the NMHH would create a reserve of EUR 12 billion, instead of separating it for the fund and thus reducing the amount of the budget contribution. So while you're being taken away from everywhere, you're being squeezed, this sector is getting so much money that you can't literally spend more than a third of it. It is also disappointing that only HUF 57 million of fines were imposed by the Media Council. Originally, 245 million forints were planned for the whole year, then changed to 153 million forints. Finally, the result is HUF 57 million, while Hungarian media services are obviously full of mass violations. It should be much more proactive and stricter, but this should be one of the main issues of the Media Council's annual accounts, so I do not wish to go beyond this point on the agenda. The HQ loan of 63 billion is not enough, as it still had to take out nearly 2 billion forints of credit, as we see on page 36 of the report. The final accounts for the implementation of the large central budget are now on the agenda at the same time, so there is a right to ask why the Parliament is dealing with the financial report of the media authority, not as part of it. Why does it adopt an independent law on the latter, the proposal of which is submitted not by the government, but by a parliamentary committee, why this state? Pardon, national? Is there a separate legislation on the closing of an institution? Why is the procedure different, for example, in the case of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Constitutional Court and several constitutional institutions, prosecutors, courts, Court of Auditors and the like? Why could the NMHH be a state in the state? As regards the Court of Auditors and the Committee on the Budget of the ORTT in 2009, the debate was already held here in Parliament after Jobbik's publication, that the auditor appointed by the Programme Service Fund gave a limited rating on the financial statements, which, according to the rules of the profession, means that the report is quite simply not credible. The basic problem is that the organisation de jure is not part of public finances and is not a chapter of the central budget. As his predecessor, he has been managing outside the state central budget since 1996. Each government viewed or viewed this dilemma as a distinguished stranger, neither considered it a duty to resolve this unorthodox situation. This would require the legislator to integrate the media institution into public finances, and the government, as a component of the central budget, should, as a chapter of both the annual budget and the financial statements, thus, when preparing the accounts; finally, the National Assembly should audit NMHH's accounts with its own dedicated financial audit body. It is educational to read the opinion of Mihály Fidesz Babak on the Court of Auditors' and Budget Committee four years ago. I quote from the record that we need to find a better solution for ORTT. In this regard, the law is submitted, so we are confident that this will be part of the state budget, and you will find the speciality with the legislation. Another issue is that there are coherence disorders. I think it is important for us to note what has been said here from the mouths of others that this legislative work must be done. For some reason, it wasn't important for the previous government for eight years to fix this. What's the matter with you? said Mihály Babak, and he went on to say, "But the time has come, and we fully agree with the opposition on this, thank you for your proposal, we want to regulate it, because it is our intention to be pro-government. We look to the future with confidence. All we have on the 2009 behind us is that it happened, and that's it. We therefore support and propose a legislative proposal for closure. Well, Mihály Babak hasn't been here since, but what's a problem is that the bill he mentioned isn't anywhere. In essence, the new media law left this issue in the same way that it was regulated before, and even worse, as the previous provision provided for at least the need to examine the closing accounts of the media authority with an auditor. The current law no longer talks about this, and the Parliament has not provided any kind of professional audit, so let's say, the State Audit Office, an independent tear investigator. In favour of NMHH's management, it should be noted that, even in the absence of legal requirements, it has entrusted an auditor with professional integrity to examine the professional correctness of the report in accordance with international professional rules, so that it gives a true, reliable, faithful picture of the financial and financial situation of the authority, whether there are any material errors in its management and whether the accounts can be considered credible. So what's the problem? The fact that the professional opinion of the auditor entrusted by the media institution, like the supervisory board's, is otherwise useful, cannot be called an independent financial audit, but an internal audit, i.e. self-control. The auditor's principal is the institution which prepared the accounts and the accounts, who pays the audit fee, and the auditor reports to him. It is therefore possible to see, on the basis of the shaping logic, why the rules of the profession consider the criteria of independence that the auditor should be entrusted and rewarded by an entity independent of the institution, i.e. the owner. For example, the SAO's auditor is appointed by the Speaker of Parliament. Let us not doubt the professionality of the auditor's opinion, nor ask questions. The generally accepted professional standards? sampling, materiality threshold, control risk, accidental and deliberate error, sloppy public finance management, and could we still list it? is it checked in accordance with the procedures? Let's not ask that question. Or whether you have collected sufficient evidence to show that the accounts give a true and fair picture of the financial and financial situation of the audited entity. Where would a congressman even ask a question like that, if that's what you're asking? In particular, it is the Parliament's fault that it did not provide for the NMHH's accounts to be examined by an organisation independent of the management or the authority. Is this what the State Audit Office, the financial and management audit body of the Parliament, is intended for? In his name? examine and report to Parliament and not to the media authority. However, the Court of Auditors still has not audited. According to the law on him, there is no such obligation, at least such a specific obligation. Although such a task may be removed from the Court's law, the President of the SAO will not wear this shirt. Like hundreds of budgetary bodies, public foundations, thousands of local and national authorities, the media authority does not even investigate the closing of their accounts. [[0.50]] The Parliament will, of course, tolerate this because it is not interested in making public accounts; it does not know what the Court of Auditors is for. There is no question of what the SAO will give taxpayers for 8 billion forints a year. László Nyikos, former Chairman of the Committee on the Court of Auditors and the Budget of the Parliament, initiated the solution to this problem in July 2010, and also submitted a proposal for a decision in September 2012, the inclusion of which was rejected by the Committee. I quote this briefly:. The Parliament invites the President of the State Audit Office to carry out the audit of the 2011 elementary budget accounts of the NMHH and the Media Council of the Authority with the institution it manages, and to report its results to the Parliament by 20 October 2012. That's all there was to it. However, this was swept down by the committee responsible and refused to include it in a series of subjects. Unfortunately, the level of the exercise of the right of accounting and closing in the form of a post-socialist nature of Parliament is unchanged and unqualifiedly low. It is characterised by professional negligence, at least two thirds of political collective irresponsibleness. The procedure to force Parliament's own committee into the role of the postman cannot be accepted either in principle or in practice, in order to submit a bill in a case of a specific professional, accounting and auditing nature. The procedure whereby an important state institution, when spending taxpayers' money, checks itself because it cannot do anything else, is totally unacceptable. Only the frivolity of the Parliament is greater than the negligence of the financial government, since it uses both its legislative and control powers irresponsiblely. If this bill is adopted, it will once again combine its total lack of expertise with collective irresponsibleness. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2014-10-20-359	Thank you very much, Congressman. Although the faction has not indicated it, the intention is that the lead speaker of the LMP is Mr István Ikotity. Here.
u2014-10-20-360	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The reports on the activities of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in 2013 related to electronic communications and the activities of the Media Council in 2013 gave the opportunity to present a system-wide criticism of 2013 and to outline the problems of the Hungarian media system. Unfortunately, these problems did not only concern last year, but are also relevant today. Allow me to say, on behalf of the LMP, what has been left out of the reports is still very important for us to report on them. The media system is heavily politicised; this is the first point. In the Hungarian media system, frequency competitions have given rise to a wide range of openly political media companies or media that are clearly committed from a global perspective. What's really wrong is they're starting all this from above. A new element of the process is the aggressive expansion of the media concerned. Moreover, structural politicisation extends to media that communicate entertaining content. This negative trend poses a number of dangers. On the one hand, there may be a risk of corruption, mainly due to the opaque use of public advertising revenues. On the other hand, this is an important driver for the economic strengthening of politically committed media empires, as commercial revenues are channeled to media of a very political nature. Thirdly, there is also the possibility of political manipulation: they can reach a part of the audience hidden in and out of entertaining content, which would otherwise not be possible, as these media consumers are otherwise not involved in politics, disillusioned from the political swamp of the last 24 years. This process has not come to an end, but it is not reported. The state has supported and, in some cases, limited the position on the commercial television market, as we have seen. Our second point is the manipulated advertising market. One of the most sensitive points in the world of politics and press publicity in Hungary is the development of advertising revenues from public sources. The higher the revenue generated by this, the greater the advantage of the press organ in the price competition over its competitors, and the higher the proportion of revenue generated by the government within the revenues of the company producing the particular press product, the greater the indirect influence of the government on the content of the press products issued by that company. The government is figuratively paying off the media business, thereby effectively restricting the freedom of the press. This was also left out of the report. For years, ever more uncertain economic funds have increased the risk of government influence and have undermined the chances of comprehensive information that is independent of political and economic interests. In the Hungarian media system, government advertising has become one of the key media policy instruments of the past period and the distribution of advertising costs for state-owned companies. This most obviously created completely distorted relations on the radio market, but this is now fully felt by commercial televisions, where the performance, attendance and silence of the individual players have completely separated from the amount of advertising revenues, and has contributed significantly to the formation of a monopoly on a politically supported player in the national commercial radio market. Public advertising spending is also a message to market advertisers. Commercial advertising follows public advertising to preferred media. In addition, the weak advertising market and distorted advertising market conditions increase the vulnerability of individual media to market advertisers. The weak public service commitment is the third. The political commitment of editorials and journalists and the fighter protection of their own political side have long been an obstacle to normal social dialogue. This is a serious failure of the public's operation, even if it is a direct consequence of the hostile political culture and, in close association with the political culture, of the total shift of the public from public life. The journalistic performances that can go beyond this have been found only in mediums that reach quite a small part of the audience. And the commercial media that didn't want to identify with it decided entirely to operate as a politician. In addition to strong political commitment, the real problem is the low level of public service commitment. This has led directly to the weakness or lack of journalistic solidarity and, in this context, to a lack of common professional minimums. In the public service institution to serve as a model for public service commitment, the new media regulation has strengthened to the extreme the organisational, programming and management disorders which have largely been present before, as the new regulation has created a politically well-managed, opaque system capable of eliminating minimum professional standards, which may have made it impossible for public service media to appear as a credible source of news. Fourth place? And last? a politicised and unpredictable surveillance system. The public-distorted processes of the past years could not have taken place without the effective assistance of the regulatory environment created by media laws and the Media Authority. Media legislation continues to include rules on arbitrary interpretations that keep editorial offices and journalists in constant uncertainty, as well as serious sanctions that are foreseen. The amounts of fines are unduly and substantially higher than those provided for in the legal order in other cases. There is no possibility to impose fines of more than HUF 500 000 in liquidation and enforcement proceedings affecting the billionaire's financial interests or in the civil court. The Media Council continues to be a politically uniform organization operating in many parts of Europe with unprecedented power. The role played by the above processes was most obviously shown by opaque frequency contests, which are an important tool for the expansion of politically committed media companies. [[1.00]] The preference for specific media and businesses was also seen in the allocation of financial assistance. In the surveillance of media content, the Authority did not develop any practice that would have been able to address regulatory uncertainties. These problems and shortcomings could not be read in the report. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-361	Thank you very much. I will ask if the independent Member wishes to comment. [[Laszlo Varju says no.]] No. Then it is time for the preliminary speaker, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz.
u2014-10-20-362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on an important element of the draft law on the implementation of the 2013 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the key pillar of the implementation of the 2013 budget of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. It can be concluded from the bill that MTVA closed the 2013 business year more effectively than planned, with a profit of HUF 3 billion and HUF 897 million. The liquidity situation was in line with the plan. On the closing day of the period, the balance of the account was HUF 2 billion 610 million. Of which 2.1 billion HUF is earmarked for debt service. But before I go to the closing accounts numbers, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to the ratings of MTVA for some thought. The M1? Like the other two national taxes? lost the audience ratio, but the third most viewed tax remained behind TV2 and the leading RTL Club. As a result of the digital changeover, all three smaller public service taxes were able to increase their ratings. On 15 December 2013, the public media launched a new television channel called M3, which became popular already during the introduction period. The daily coverage of the Kossuth radio was 1.5 million people on weekdays and reached an average of 1.2 million people on weekends. Only the national music commercial radio, Class FM, has higher daily access. Petőfi radio has stabilized its daily listening camp on a level of 940,000 people, which continues to be the second most listening music radio. According to the new measurement, Bartók radio is listened to by about 180,000 people a day, representing 1.9 percent of the audience. It's a significantly better result than previously measured with a daily average of 190,000 listeners on the Dankó radio. After this brief look-out, let us look at the specific figures contained in the bill on budget implementation. In the framework of the Hungarian Media Patronage programme, 11 new calls for proposals were launched with a budget of HUF 3 billion. By the end of the year, 431 winners were awarded a grant of more than HUF 2.5 billion: HUF 1.2 billion for filmmaking and HUF 1.3 billion for media service providers. The granting of grants and the granting of financial assistance shall be divided in time. In 2013 a total of HUF 2 billion was paid for 879 million. A significant share of MTVA's revenues, 80% of the public service contribution from the central budget, 12.5 percent of MTVA's other revenues, while 7.5 percent, HUF 6.2 billion, comes from advertising and other commercial revenues.In 2013, HUF 82 billion of HUF 985 million was used to cover the expenditure listed below. Transfer transfers. The Media Council, its office, the Public Service Foundation and public service media service providers shall transfer the resources necessary for their operation at the expense of their own revenue. These amounted to HUF 5 billion 200 million in 2013. MTVA transferred HUF 846 million annually to the operation of the MRI musical ensembles. MTVA used 291 million forints for the operation of Digitalization Ltd., NAVA. Media support and asset management activities account for most of the expenditure. This includes expenditure on programming, broadcasting, personal, property maintenance and operation, as well as investments. In connection with this activity, HUF 58.5 billion was spent last year in 2013. Forints 21 billion were spent on the production and purchase of content, HUF 14 billion on broadcasting costs, HUF 16.6 billion on personnel costs and HUF 3.1 billion on investment. Costs of production of the 2013 programme grid? In addition to the direct cost of staff and equipment for those involved in the production of their own programmes? 22.8 billion forints. This is HUF 1.6 billion lower than the previous year. Out of the total amount, HUF 4.6 billion in sports law, news agency contract, correspondent network, HUF 1.9 billion, paid to copyright offices was HUF 1.25 billion and spent HUF 2.6 billion on film rights. Some of the programme costs are the result of previous years' payments. In 2013, the cash flow to the programme accounts amounted to HUF 21 billion. If we look at personal costs, we can conclude that MTVA spent HUF 16.6 billion on personal expenses in 2013. This includes the costs of staff and public workers received from MTI. Apart from these items, the headcount reduction saved HUF 900 million compared to 2012. In view of the debt service, the first year in the management of MTVA was 2013 with debt service due to credit contracts. A total of HUF 8 billion, HUF 313 million, 10 percent of the total revenue, was spent on debt services. The interest was HUF 5 billion 155 million, the capital repayment of the working capital loan was HUF 3 billion 158 million. From the end of 2014, i.e. from the end of this year, the capital repayment of the real estate loan will also begin. Compliance with the borrowing requirement, indicators measuring certain profit-generating capacity. In addition to the cashflow limits, these standards are the bottlenecks in MTVA's cost management. The management of 2013 ensured compliance with the requirements of all three indicators. And now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to come to some of the questions that people in forums, corridors and even in my constituency have asked me, even in Rákosmente, with questions of how much the NMHH has paid. I think that this is something worth discussing here in this House. [[1.10]] If we look at these numbers, we see the following in the bill tabled. The EUR 35 billion budget of the NMHH in 2013 would make it possible to pay a reward of HUF 1.7 billion under the law. The Media Authority has maximized the allocation framework at a lower level, reduced by almost the quarter, using less than 23.5 percent of the amount allowed and less than the amount available for this purpose. Compared to previous years, the rules on payments have been significantly tightened, and the determination of the level is strictly linked to the outcome of the benchmarking based on the target tasks. [[Zoltán Lukács is talking to his fellow parties.]] Management autonomy is one of the most important guarantees of the independence of the Authority and that the NMHH essentially covers its expenditure from its own revenue. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] An important element and basis of the above-mentioned institutional autonomy and legislation is therefore that the authority has the professional staff required for high-quality work. The strength of this, I think, is important for all television viewers. Another issue is that NMHH's revenues are significantly higher than its expenditure: its revenues are HUF 49 billion, HUF 600 million, and its expenses are HUF 33 billion and HUF 1 million. What will the authorities do with this large amount of money? It has already been said in today's debate, and from the difference, the authority is a reserve and does not spend it. Each year, a presidential provision shall be issued for its use, specifying the specific objectives. The textual justification of this bill contains a summary of the proposed objectives. And let me ask you a third question. How is the court's judgment on the 900 megahertz tender affected? That's a question they ask a lot of times. It is important to stress that the above concession revenues are not part of the public authority's budget, but they are state revenues, which were on NMHH's concession invoice until the final judgment. The NMHH did not spend a penny of this, could not have spent, and transferred it to the Hungarian Treasury. On the basis of the above, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the closing report submitted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-363	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Two-minute comments, first István Ikotity, LMP.
u2014-10-20-364	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, According to the NMHH report, the amount spent in previous years on the postage, advertising and representation lines was finally used ten times the amount spent in 2013 among NMHH's expenditures. In contrast to the HUF 188 million in the previous year and the initial HUF 250 million in 2013 budget, HUF 1784 million was finally spent on this item, i.e. nearly HUF 2 billion. Then, in an interim amendment, this framework was raised to HUF 1852 million. According to LMP, this significant amendment, and finally the way it is spent, raises the suspicion that the public funds spent on the digital changeover have also enriched the oligarchs near Fidesz. We have looked into why this significant increase in expenditure is due. The NMHH sent a detailed statement that more than HUF 200 million was spent on missions and travels, but the massive increase in expenditure was explained by only one item last year: IMG, Inter Media Group Kft. is well-known from the Simicska empire in connection with the national digital transition. He received nearly HUF 1.6 billion for a so-called communication campaign. It is known that the same company won the Paks II. In April this year, LMP filed a complaint against the State on suspicion of misappropriation. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-365	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Lukács will have the floor for two minutes.
u2014-10-20-366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the one hand, the Member's speech: we really thank everyone for not giving out 1.7 billion as a reward, only 425 million, and this is, in fact, almost embarrassing modesty. I would suggest that a forint reward should not be distributed next year, and it would still be too much, because their salary is too high compared to what they do. In addition, we thank you for not spending the concession fees you cannot spend; that is indeed a good thing, I think, which is why I thank you. As far as ratings are concerned, I'll tell you how Hungarian Television cheats with ratings if you listen to them. Take this ominous show, which was called "We are at home," I don't know, "Hungary, I love you," I think, which ended with the lighting of the fire in 1600 places, which was a very clever idea. The Hungarian Television said that 522,000 people were reached in the morning and 255 thousand people were reached in the same programme on the Danube World. In professional language, access means that it connects there and watches the show for at least one minute, which is what it means in the. So a total of 522,000 plus 255 thousand people watched the show in the morning show for at least a minute. Then there was a continuous show in the afternoon, 110-143 thousand people watched it constantly, said the M1, otherwise 761 thousand people reached and looked into this show all afternoon. Then, when the flame was lit in 1,600 settlements, 329 thousand people were curious about it. And all this was added up by Magyar TV, and they said that 1 million 700,000 people saw the show. By the way, those who measured it, independent meters, said that 300 to 400 thousand viewers saw this show. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Unfortunately, the person who looked into it for a minute and a minute this afternoon doesn't have to count for two spectators. [[The president's ringing again.]] It's as simple as that. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-367	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman János Halász for two minutes.
u2014-10-20-368	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congressman Zoltán Lukács in his previous longer comment? Excuse me, Congressman? He said a lot of nonsense, he managed it now, but the congressman is also cynical. After three losing elections, talking about public media with such deep cynicism, I think it's a big mistake for you and for you. But, you know, there was an election in 2010, then, by two-thirds majority, people voted in trust for Fidesz and KDNP, obviously against you, too; we know what they did in the eight years of their government. System transformations have started, including the regulation of public media. That's what many things could be said about in those four years, and you've said all the nonsense you've been saying. They might even have been right, but there was also a choice in 2014, when people also gave an opinion on the new public media regulation that they heard a lot about, for example, from you in the public media, when you were there a lot. And people once again said that they support the same community by two thirds, who, in the meantime, created this regulation because they say that Hungary's great public opinion? Did they say that in the parliamentary elections in April 2014? Let's keep it that way. Congressman, at least take this into account when you say all this nonsense. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-369	Thank you very much, Congressman. In 15 minutes' time, Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2014-10-20-370	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been thinking a little bit about a quarter past two in the morning about when this past eight years will finally be, but thank God I got this. [[Zoltán Lukács: John's profession!]] I would like to say to my fellow Member that the democratic mandate has not yet been lifted from this nonsense. [[1.20]] But I am pleased if you receive meaningful answers, either from my fellow Member Luke or from me, because obviously everyone can be wrong, even if two thirds of the population support us. As someone may be telling the truth despite two thirds of his support. That's not quite the question you're looking at, but we're used to it. I'm the III. I am an individual parliamentary representative of the district. Cunegund Street is in my constituency. This building is famous for many things. One of them is that there have been protests here for more than four years... by illegally laid-off media workers who have been fired by you. The other is that they always want to use highly creative techniques in order to prevent this demonstration. Let me tell you a similar creative technique, the source of which I somehow could not find in the accounts. Obviously, it's my fault that there wasn't a public installation where the protest was ordered by the MTVA in a completely random manner. This is obviously an activity that is also relevant to broadcasting, since the creation of non-existent public statues is integral to the broadcasting activities of MTVA. It's a shame to deny that, obviously because of the two-thirds of them, the MTVAs are right about this, they're setting up statues that don't exist just because a protest has to be prevented. It's obviously a nice thing, agreed with two thirds. As much as I'm looking for my mailbox, there hasn't been a national consultation on this issue yet, but I may not be on the list, so I didn't get a letter like this. In fact, if you look at the channels and you look at the ratings, you can think of a practical advice. For example, if the channel 5 of MTV were to start, the ratings line of channel 1 of MTV would jump right in front of it, because there would certainly be a channel that looked less than MTV 1. Similar techniques can be used to advance MTV ratings to any length. However, the fact is that the effort the government is making to make sure that whoever is watching this channel is not in proportion to the result. I think that if a reverse subscriber fee was introduced and money was given to the person watching it, it would be possible to improve the visibility and ratings of this channel much sooner. By the way, I think you're in a different way or at least in this way, let's just say it's gonna be hard. But obviously, it's subjective, what anyone looks at, what they like, you can say that the two-thirds give you permission to do that. It may even make a decision by two thirds of the House, but it is still watched by 5 million people outside Parliament, 10 million people, up to 4 billion people, or 20 billion people. It doesn't matter, anything can be decided by two thirds, because we can win, and in this case reality doesn't matter. This authority, as my fellow Member Luke said, is a staff in your hands. A stick that, let's just say, doesn't necessarily hit where it's supposed to hit. There is certainly no debate between me and those who think that there is a need for some kind of media regulation, that it is indeed right for the House to create laws, laws that in some way limit public media. I don't have a fight with anyone in this. But I already have a dispute with the fact that there is a media authority that not only tolerates but supports phenomena that should be punished, while other phenomena that should be punished from the other side and that there is an unexpected rigour. In the event that we see, not the double standard, but that a medium is free of almost anything, while others are free of anything, it could even be said that this rigour with which you view the media conditions could even be given. But let's take a look at some of these. My fellow Member Luke took over these, but I would not be so generous in this area, and I would like to mention fewer examples. We're gonna watch MTV news. The fact that images are retouched in the news, non-existent interviews or false news is virtually everyday, and the message for this technique is that, yes, even more significant roles should be given to newsfalseers, even those who report such false news should be appointed as news directors. Obviously, we can see that it's a lot easier to do a fake interview than to find someone to finally tell the camera what we want to hear. However, if we think that independent journalism is at least a minimum requirement, then it is appropriate to wait for someone, a stray guest, to at least wander in and say what we want to hear. At the same time, a few weeks ago, for example, there was a case of a bank loan or an ATM case being broadcast by MTVA's newscast. That's how someone recognized that he was her college roommate, not the X.Y. under the title. That's embarrassing. It is also very embarrassing when an independent blog site, which doesn't deal with the analysis of news programs, looks at an average newscast, and three news reports admit that it is a lie; in the news, he saw that it was a lie. Needless to say, it was not about the birth of a fourth panda at the zoo in Budapest, and in fact, the lie was that it was about matters of political importance in Nyíregyháza, but of obvious political importance in comparison. The fact that the Hungarian Television, the public television newscast, is often not telling the truth, for example, I am convinced that it is a situation in which this authority, which was created for this reason, should otherwise be dealt with. If we could see in this proposal how many of these disasters have occurred, when, by the way, anyone who claims to be untrue on the news is struck with the full force of law, I'd say it's perfectly all right. For those who do not tell the truth, who do not believe in the news, should indeed be struck by the absolute rigour of the law. Ferenc Deák said that the media law he wrote would be a sentence: to write the truth. That's what's happening here. If we were to see M1 forgery getting hit by the media authority, there would be no problem with having such an authority. Similarly, if we were to see that M1's failed series, which no one looked at, would otherwise be examined financially, and whether these were good spending, and this would be done in the context of a normal audit investigation, the effectiveness of which would be public, then there would really be no problem. But when you're talking about tightening up control by the authorities, what we're actually talking about is that you've tightened up your own control. In front of my mind, I wonder how this check was carried out. The system checks itself, and he says, yes, it wasn't such a good idea to pay for it, so next time it shouldn't be. It must have been a very strict checkup. It's so strict that MTV hasn't changed its practice since he's been doing his own shows in the production of producer producers who have failed previous shows. Of course, as in the old joke, the show just happens. Here too, maybe the 20th series will just be watched. There's obviously a lot of public money to pay for. Similarly, it is shameful what they have done in connection with frequency moratoriums. It wasn't meant to be. As a Greek Catholic, I welcome the fact that on a Sunday I can listen to worship in three or four radio programmes at the same time, although I only have two ears, but these shortcomings can be worked out to solve the four-eared man with two thirds. At the same time, however, I have to say that in the division of radio frequencies and television, let us say, sector neutrality has not been achieved. Of course, it is cynically possible to say that the best candidates have received the frequencies, but we can see that radio stations with a long history have ceased or have become local radios. All we have to do is think about the Club radio. The question arises, of course, what about the content issues in which the authority would indeed have a regulatory issue. These are professional issues that are constantly raised in professional forums, and it seems that you are not doing anything about it. [[1.30]] For example, here's the question of advertising. The question is why many advertising television channels abuse advertising more loudly than television broadcasts advertising. This is prohibited under the current rules and a fine of 2 million forints is imposed for it, by the way? Like what? Laughingly, everyone involved will pay for it, since they will gain a much greater advantage. Although this is a continuing problem, and it constantly tells the authorities about the problem, no progress has been made in this regard. Obviously, I don't even dare think about why this is the case. Then, similarly, there's the question of subtitled films. The profession continues to appeal to the fact that ludicrous foreign language skills can be improved by increasing the proportion of films that are not synchronized but subtitled. No progress has been made so far, while the profession has been talking about this for ten years. I have given you these examples only to show you that there are some substantive issues in which an authority would actually have a job to do, that it really would have a job to do. However, the Hungarian media authority does not play a role in any mysterious way. Finally, I can say that in the event that this media authority would be a transparent, transparent authority, whose report would work together with other public institutions within the ordinary legislative framework, which would not operate in such a wasteful, wasteful way, in which advertising would not be like that, where for four years all people who did not share this kind of concept, where forging news would not be everyday practice, where the rules that it applies to others would apply to itself would be a pleasant debate on what the role of the media authority would be, and the public money that we spend on it would be the right thing to do. But since this is not the case, I must say that my fellow Member, Mr Zoltán Lukács, is absolutely right that this money is like being thrown into the sea, and even worse, because it is being harmed. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-371	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Lukács for two minutes.
u2014-10-20-372	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to say to the Secretary of State that this is not cynicism. I can be cynical, but I wasn't cynical this time, I just made a list of facts. You can say I say stupid things, but then you can tell me what's stupid. I told you facts, I told you facts, I told you which production costs. Then tell me I'm wrong, because it doesn't cost that much, it costs that much. Or tell me that the way I was talking about ratings, that calculation isn't the way it is, it's the way it is, and tell me how it is. Or say it's not true that Mobil Zrt. It's been liquidated with a billion-dollar Minus. Or say that it is not true that 12 billion dollars have been damaged by EGSM 2 and that the budget has completely fallen from 41 billion and tell us how much profit it has ultimately brought. That is how you can argue, but the fact that you say these things and then you stand up and say that Congressman Luke is talking nonsense can be said, but I think that is not a debate, but a classification, and that does not make much sense in my view. In addition, to be proud of your two-thirds victory again, to say that this is because television is okay, it strengthens me. That's what I'm talking about. Why were you able to win so much again? Two things. On the one hand, because it is, as I say, a manipulated television and radio programme is being broadcast by public television and public radio. That is not what I am saying, but that is what independent analysts say, and that is what the role of different political parties shows in its proportions. And the other is that they've rewritten the electoral law. This is not part of this debate, but, Mr President, you have received one million votes less than in the previous election, and that is how you have two thirds again. If you don't think this is about rewriting the law, then that's the story. If you say I'm cynical, then I say this sentence is cynical. Thank you very much.
u2014-10-20-373	Thank you very much. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor in a 15-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-374	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have more time to explain what my fellow Member Luke said in his last sentences. Just to make it clear and clear to my fellow Member, let us devote a moment to this story. There is no doubt in your mind that you have received a significant, nearly one million fewer votes, and yet you have two thirds, because you have such a calculation of mandates. I don't want to start the details... [[Forebear Novak: Media Law!]] Yeah, media law. So I don't want to start with the details of how and how the votes between the votes across the border and those who have been chased away from the economy came together or didn't. [[President Novak: Will there be a media law?]] Yeah, I've got 15 minutes, so just relax.
u2014-10-20-375	Congressman, get to the point.
u2014-10-20-376	Thank you very much. I only started with the introductory thought that my fellow Member Fisherman dealt with. But in the light of Mr President's intelligence, I will move on to the present subject.
u2014-10-20-377	Thank you.
u2014-10-20-378	Thank you, Mr. President. In the last sentences of his first speech, my fellow Member Luke said that the National Media and Infocommunications Authority should be abolished. I'm saying the same thing between my first sentences. Why? It's a very simple story. Forints 35 000 million are not small, since we are talking about the 2013 budget and 2015 budget. The employment of 650 people, with a wage-like expenditure of over HUF 8000 million, is not limited. Back-up money worth 6,000 million forints is once again not small. Inexhaustible, untraceable financial uses make it at least questionable how and how the type of farming takes place. It is, of course, possible to produce an audit report that is numerically correct and credible, and the question is what this question looks like from a point of view of usefulness. Look, my fellow Member, in my judgment, is the Fidesz today? Can't I tell you anything else? I think he chased the media into the darkest corner, into the darkest pit. He has created a situation in which he does not have much freedom of movement. Do I see that there is a level of political influence on the part of the governing parties today, which is the issue of balance? I don't know if that term should be used. He's practically questioning it. Can we talk about public media today? We could talk about it for a long time; I don't really think so. But if you're not looking at public service, but at commercial media, what does this situation look like? What's happening to them? I think they work and live their lives within the limits of total austerity. And, of course, they use all the tools to do that. They either make me impossible in this market or they reward me. It is obviously for those who do not act in support of your policy, or try to create a realistic picture of the world and convey it; so to reward those who are obviously loyal to this story. Who does the National Media and Infocommunications Authority owe any kind of reporting or clearing obligation? As far as I know, it's not really the Ministry of Supreme Affairs either. Not much for the government, not much for Parliament. Who's it really for? Is there a one-man process in hand with the National Media and Infocommunications Authority in Orbán? Is that right, if that's the case? Is it okay if we go this way? Where the possibility of political manipulation is given? [[There's a cell phone on the phone. ? The Wife is calling!]] Excuse me? [[I'm telling you, she's calling.]] Not me, maybe you. So where the possibility of political manipulation can be seen as a real situation? Where the issue of freedom of the press can only be identified with doubt? [[1.40]] Where corruption risks can come to their heads? I don't want to go on a completely different path with today's events, but can you see that corruption has spread across Hungary during this period when government officials are in such a situation...? And then I won't get out, and then I'll come back, and I'll just come back to my 2013 budget. So, I think it's an Orbán-driven process, for which there are those who are vulnerable and some who are servers in this story. My fellow Member, the fisherman, says that my fellow Member Luke is talking nonsense. Then I would raise just a few problems, which I think I have, and then I would like to ask my fellow Member Fisherman to react, whether they are really stupid or real problems and real problems that we are talking about. You know it, and my fellow Member has mentioned the HUF 20 billion application of HUF 20 000 million within the framework of the economic operational programme. You know? You know what we're talking about, right? About the broadband development of the 33 small regions, where five out of 12 winners took two thirds of the funds, more than HUF 12 billion. You know him, don't you? Are these nonsense? I will not even begin to say what my fellow Member has said about how and how the company formation documents, the places of entries, the management, the ownership background look the same for these companies. Is that nonsense or is that a problem? Is that a problem? Is the Hungarian Telegram Office becoming a, a slogan for the government, a problem that exists, or is there a problem? [[János Halász: This is also nonsense.]] If you think it's stupid, you have to look at what's been going on in this regard over the past few years. I think that's a real problem. However, such existing problems could be addressed not only in relation to the 20 billion-dollar broadband development of the economic operational development programme, or in relation to the termination of the MTI, but also in relation to the issue of the ceased state mobile company, which was merged into the Hungarian Post Office, or by overwriting the Curia's instigating judgment, which could not conceal the fact that the failed frequency auction caused some HUF 12 billion damage to the fourth mobile operator. I think that these are certainly not nonsense, these are existing problems, problems that we have to face. It is no coincidence that, with regard to the 2013 budget, we say that we do not want to confirm this with our support, because we consider that there are a lot of torsos in this system. And for 2015 too, which is on the next item on the agenda, I do not wish to go into reasoning, and I am obviously saying the same thing, that when and when it is obvious that, without professional reports or professional preparations, there is a need to decide between the walls of Parliament on this type and order of magnitude, there is no way to say yes to this. I do not want to abuse your patience at this late date, so I will not go into detail on the issues that my colleague László Kiss spoke about, and I will only add it in a confirmation manner. I think it would be worth taking these into account, and it would also be worth considering to my fellow Members that these points are indeed stupid or existing problems. I think that there are existing problems that should be addressed, even through the budget. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2014-10-20-379	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign on the screen. I therefore close the general debate and give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, who indicates that he wishes to respond on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2014-10-20-380	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be honest with you, fellow Members. I think it is clear that everyone's position is determined by their sitting point. There's a lot of weird stuff going on here tonight. A general debate was held on an NMHH report instead of a budget report. I think that kind of got the story wrong. I'd like to answer some of the points here at this late hour because you really haven't been able to comment on the budget. But that my fellow Member Luke, on this particular programme, which you have quoted several times, did not actually violate television, but those thousands of settlements and the people who live there, I am absolutely certain of that. [[Zoltán Lukács: People will decide.]] Yes, it's decided, Congressman. They've decided. [[Zoltán Lukács: What? What I just said? ? The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2014-10-20-381	Congressman!
u2014-10-20-382	I've listened to you as well, not in your comments. Of course, I understand that you don't want to endure this, but the facts are still facts. I would like to thank Mr President Novák for being moderate in his speech and commending farming. Thank you for that, of course. Mr Ikotity also commented on the NMHH report and not on the budget report. Congressman László Kiss, it seems he couldn't stand this schedule anymore, but it was a bit difficult for me after the video forgery in Baja, what he told me about the news of Magyar Television. I think that if he violates the truth of the television programme in any way, he, as a citizen, may, as a representative, make even more submissions to the media authority, which must then be investigated. And if you do this in this way, you can not only accuse yourself of it, but also present the whole thing. At the late hour, I would like to say to everyone that in the general debate on the 2013 report, the last thing we discussed was the budget report. Nevertheless, I propose to the Parliament that the report be accepted. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-383	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In the light of the public holidays, amendments may be submitted on Monday 27 October at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the 2015 single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will follow until closure. The submission is T/1577. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker has appointed the Committee on Culture to hold a detailed debate on this proposal. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, his rapporteur on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-384	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 134. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3, the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's bill containing a single budget shall be submitted by the Parliament's Committee on Budgets to Parliament by 31 October of the year preceding the year in question. [[1.50]] The Parliament's Budget Committee shall submit its bill containing a single budget to Parliament by 31 October of the year preceding the year.1.50) On the basis of a proposal submitted by the President of the Authority by 15 September, which includes the draft budget of the Media Council approved by the Media Council. On 11 September, the president of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority submitted the draft bill to the Committee on Budgets. The Committee on Budgets discussed the bill at its meeting on 13 October and decided without discussion to submit it. The total revenue of the NMHH planned for 2015 is HUF 32 billion,409.3 million. The NMHH's public revenue shall consist of administrative, service charges, charges for frequency use, connection and use of identifiers, supervisory fees and fines collected. The total budget of the Authority represents a significant proportion of the appropriations for staff allowances and the related employer contributions and social contributions tax, a total of HUF 8.3 billion. Since 2011, the expenditure side has been of a similar magnitude in its mass and amount. With the established number, the authority is working effectively. The planned amount to cover the operating costs of the Media Council is HUF 173.9 million. This appropriation is intended to cover the staff allowances of the Media Council of five members, contributions, expert frameworks to assist in their professional activities, as well as funding for the co-operation. The revenue allocation of the Media Council's operational budget is planned at the expense of the Fund's resources. As an appropriation managed by the Media Council, the billing of media service and tender charges for the fund, the amounts of penalties, fines and late payment interest, bank charges and their sales tax are planned by the bill. The planned revenue of the media service charges was also established on the basis of obligations arising from contracts following the digital switch-over of national commercial televisions. The main expenditure amounts shall include media service and tender, frequency support charges and related general turnover tax, as well as planned appropriations for penalties, fines, interest on late payment and bank charges. The budget's total revenue and expenditure is HUF 1 billion,433.9 million. The total revenue and expenditure of the budget of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund for 2015 amounts to HUF 80 billion of HUF 497 million. The most important source of revenue is the public service contribution, which is more than HUF 70 billion. Private sources of income include commercial, asset management and other revenues worth about HUF 5 billion. On the expenditure side, the largest item is the financing of the activity, the production of programmes, the production of programmes and the management of assets. This is more than HUF 61 billion. Out-of-budget items shall include repayments of the loans received as well as bails collected. In 2015 the authority will repay HUF 2 billion for the capital repayment of the investment loan for the purchase of the head office and HUF 4 billion for HUF 210.5 million for the related revolving loan. In view of this, I would like to ask for the discussion and then the adoption of the budget of the media authority for 2015. Thank you.
u2014-10-20-385	Thank you very much, Congressman. The government has indicated in advance that it does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, speeches will be held by the lead speaker within a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2014-10-20-386	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We are discussing the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2015, and, as the Media Act states, this is a bill presented to us in a single structure by the competent parliamentary committee, because that is how the media law requires it. The material, similar to the previous years, is in the same structure before us. We can see that the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority includes public revenue, administrative service charges, charges for the use of the frequency, fees for booking and use of identifiers, fines, supervisory fees and various procedural fees. As we have heard, revenue appropriations slightly above HUF 32 billion are included in the proposal, and in line with this, the total expenditure amount is included. In the case of the Media Council's operating budget, the Fund's resources can be used to cover the operating costs, HUF 173.9 million, which includes the staff allowances of the five-member Media Council, expert frameworks to support contributions and professional activities and the planned amounts of co-government grants. In addition, for appropriations managed by the Media Council, the media service and tender fees to be billed by the Board but definitively covered by the Fund shall be managed by the NMHH as the Media Council's official body. Here the planned amount of media service fees is slightly over HUF 1 billion, and the amount is determined on the basis of the contracts of national commercial television and radio rights. The budget of MTVA, the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund is estimated at HUF 80.5 billion. In line with this, expenditure was also planned. The media service fees, the bidding fees, and as we've heard, the largest amount is the public service contribution to the revenue side. On the expenditure side, let me mention the support system that is very important in substance, which is operated by this fund, which is one of the pillars of the new funding system for Hungarian film production. It has already achieved great results, and I welcome the fact that we can find this amount in the draft budget for next year. I propose that, since this is a detailed draft budget, which also shows the efficient and cost-effective approach of the authority, I ask that the Parliament and the Members support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-387	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2014-10-20-388	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, What does NHH spend 20 billion forints a year on? That was the question that Zsolt Nyitrai asked, when he was still an opposition representative in this House. Then it was possible to ask in this House; I could not ask it today. I couldn't ask him why he was saving so much. [[János Halász intervenes.]] I didn't expect an answer right now. I think there will be an opportunity. There may have been a debate about this at the time, and perhaps I should refer a little back to the previous debate. Of course, we can play by being accountants. We can play by putting the lines together, and we look at the balance between revenue and expenditure, and I am quite sure that there are enough gray matter in the 650 people's professional apparatus so that they can put this in a reasonable way, and we will not discuss the content. But the fact that behind this huge amount of money there must be performance, there must be results, there must be practicality, I am absolutely sure. I think we need to talk about this, too, and maybe it's okay, and I'm sure it's not stupid when we talk about it. If we want to talk to accountants, we have to go to an accountant's office. Here we are Members of Parliament, where I think we would also like to see the content, the underlying content. [[2.00]] But let's talk a little bit about numbers, shall we? I'll talk more about numbers. During four years of operation of the new media regime, this balance can also be recovered. We see that the NMHH, which has taken over NHHH's tasks, is now working with over 32 billion and a much bigger apparatus, i.e. 650 people instead of 400, which is likely to rise again next year, which will impose a wage burden of 8,3 to 8.5 billion, which basically says that without contributions, it is about 13 billion HUF per person per year that is planned. What we are seeing is what my fellow Member has said that little has changed in structure and structure since last year's budget. That in itself might not be a problem. What we see in this is that this fragmentation may have become a little less structured, even less transparent is the revenue, and even less visible on the expenditure side is what is being spent on. So to speak, the lines are a little dilated. These are worth explaining, not everything should be on the altar of efficiency, so effectively you do not have to use paper and ink, you could have safely distributed these bars even in the Excel table. Last year, we saw how the NMHH wanted to earn revenue when it nicely split that usque 18 billion, to be exact, into concession and block tender frequency charges,▁szín frequency charges, and new frequency charges. This year we no longer see how they intend to collect 18 billion 538 million forints. We think it's in a similar way, but that doesn't come out from the budget you've submitted. I think it wasn't a slob, I think it's the device that's sending a message. This device sends a message, and it sends a kind of centralization. We see that both radios and, of course, television broadcasting, or reducing their frequencies, with empty frequencies, both communication and the media that transmit them, should be able to act in the same direction, and now they do not actually want to detail how much they want to collect in the name of new frequency charges, what will happen to the frequencies of those eight rural dead radio stations, and what will happen to those radios that will work in the future. We can see they're more efficient. The Media Council is more efficient; instead of HUF 1 billion 528 million, this council spends HUF 1 billion 433 million on itself, which is certainly doing well in its work, but I think they are the only ones in this budget who provide their work with more savings on the basis of the figures. Here again, I would like to raise the question of practicality, effectiveness and the underlying content, which must also be seen in this regard. I think that we will have to take more time to do this, and we will have to take more time to debate, so that perhaps we too will have a better understanding of the kind of argument that this has only one eye, which could have been a two-thirds victory. What we can see is that others can't farm so cheaply. Those who have to pay more next year can't afford to farm sparingly. This is very, very surprisingly RTL and TV2, whose media service fee of HUF 25-25 million was increased to HUF 65 million. Those who have not yet been able to operate very effectively are MTV, Duna TV and Radio, whose release is increased by HUF 70-70-70 million. What we can see is that MTI can spend some 200 million forints more next year. We also see that there will be fewer applications, since the grant fees, at least their revenues, have been reduced from HUF 75 million to HUF 48 million. It should be said here that local media, local radios, local TVs are very important for the local public. I understand what this budget is trying to suggest: everything in one direction, the more opaque it is, the more foggy it is, the less it is working, and everything in one direction must be pushed into one centre. I think that this authority's task might have been to do what it had to do before, but it only worked much cheaper when ORTT was still there, so that a colorful, plural palette, if there has been so much talk of democracy, could create one that might be able to say on the spot the opinions that the locals are interested in. I'm not sure that everyone nationwide is interested in what happened in Debrecen or in my country, Komlón, Pécs, but that's what the people there are interested in, even if you don't pay attention to it, and the NMHH doesn't pay that much attention to it. What my fellow Member, Mr President, said earlier, is a matter of reserve. The operational reserve for the following year is HUF 5 842 200 000. Last year's amount, which has become a fact compared to the plan, is 5,746,800,000 forints. In a government institution with a budget of barely over 32 billion, which you have recognised, expressed and described, it is independent, but it is a part of public finances, and therefore we in Parliament need to talk about its effectiveness and its planning and budget: how is it that nearly one third of this HUF 32 billion, a little more than one third of it, will now be a reserve? If we were now on the market, where they say that if a company has a cash reserve of more than 90 days, it is actually no longer a reserve, it is an intervention framework. What are we interfering with? Where would the NMHH want to intervene with such a large reserve, and why would such a reserve be necessary if, of course, a revolving loan had to be taken on, if it had to be accompanied by a huge investment loan? Then why didn't you plan this better before? And let's say that it would not be necessary to roll 4 billion HUF 200 million revolving loans in front of us, even if we have now heard that 4 billion HUF 200 million will be repaid in this budget year. But above that, is there still 5 billion 842 million forints left? Then what's this backup for? After all, subsidies are not granted, because we see that we do not want to have a more colorful and plural media space around us, we do not want to support smaller media companies, we are taking more from the larger ones as much as possible. They do not want to fine either, as the amount of the planned fine has now been reduced from 150 million to 21 million forints. Then what are they saving for, and what are they piling up this huge amount of money for, even if, of course, it is properly accounted for according to the law, and I believe that it will happen? If it didn't happen that way, I think they'd change the law. Since the introduction of the new media law, we, opposition representatives, cannot have a picture of the internal functioning and transparency of public authorities and public media. It's what we see from the outside. The regent power has filled the authority only with its own delegates, it has become one-party in the media council, in the supervisory board and in the public media without any tender, I must say that it is chosen, but perhaps better to say that its designated leaders have control over everything without having to account for their activities, their use of public money in any way, in any way. This authority controls itself, gentlemen. We can't argue about it now when the public media broadcasts it, I know, because everyone has to get home to the local government's inaugural meeting, but we can't argue about it now when public media broadcasts it, but at night, we can argue about it now almost at 3:15 or 3:15 in the morning. [[2.10]] I believe that all of this, both the content and the structure and the message of it, bear in mind that what has been said last year, including the accounts of last year, will also be true for the accounts of next year. We also argued about the budget, and I also expressed our opinion on the budget, but I would ask you to be partners in not being accountants, but as Members of Parliament, and try to find the content behind it, the message, the message of the structure, to listen to it, and if you have it, then? I think so? In the end, it could lead to a substantive debate, not to realize that there were elections, and you won it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2014-10-20-389	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr President Novak, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2014-10-20-390	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, like the previous agenda, the individual items are not normally opened in the draft budget of the NMHH next year. We can only read chapter titles. The most outstanding again is the 62 billion MTVA expenditure allocation. We cannot see the partial editions, which could be accompanied by amendments, because, for example, we have an old desire to oblige public media to create films, such as films with historical themes in their own production, because unfortunately, both during the previous and the current Orbán government, we see that there is no intention of doing so either on the part of the government commissioner or within the framework of public media. We could also make a number of other amendments if there were at all a series of HUF 62 billion MTVA projections to which we could add an amendment proposal. However, this has not been sufficiently developed, so to arrange this 62 billion forints edition with a row. In addition, only a fraction of this terrible amount is available for programming, although this is not apparent from the proposal, but I learned from other information that 25-27 billion forints will be spent only on programming, including internal and external productions. It is therefore distributed among televisions and radios. However, we cannot read this roughly HUF 25 billion amount here, but it still hurts that only a fraction of it is actually spent on programming from such a huge amount. On the previous agenda, regarding last year's closing date, I said that it was disappointing that the Media Council managed to impose a fine of only HUF 57 million, especially in the light of the fact that not many HUF 245 million were originally planned and then reduced to 153 million. Well, on this agenda, we can see that, as the clearest sign of government softness, only HUF 21 million of fines are planned next year. So last year's 245 became 153 million forints, and finally actually 57 million forints for the next year only 21 million forints. So much for toughening with big commercial media, that virtually no sanctions are imposed in order to comply with the law, although, unfortunately, law violations are serial and general. I would particularly like to refer my criticisms to Lajos Szűcs because I am pleased that he acknowledged that I tried to stay on the subject, no matter how much the temptation was, and that at a dry closing, only to remain on the dry facts. In fact, however, he highlighted only the one positive that was a few seconds in my otherwise 15-minute speech when I said that the NMHH was doing pretty well. But in addition to that, I have made a lot of criticisms. Let me point out, first of all, that if you are not going to point out in the closing words that the fine of HUF 21 million is planned for the previous...? and less than 10 percent of the draft why it can change this way, while obviously we cannot say that they have made order in the media. Even Sándor Pintér would not dare to commit such a lie, although he makes bold statements about the establishment of the order, but the fact that, from one year to the next, less than one tenth of the court's advance is unacceptable. The MSZP was concerned about how much media service charges still have to be paid, and I think that the decline that would have been unimaginable in previous years is visible. Now only HUF 65 million is the media service fee for TV2 and RTL Club. It's quite simply ridiculous. As for the genre of this agenda again, on the same day the National Assembly will begin the parliamentary debate on the budget of the NMHH next year, on which it will also discuss its closing accounts last year. This suggests that Fidesz wants to quickly grind down current media money. In any case, it is logical, yes, that the House would first like to go through the closing accounts, but it is not justified that a decision on the budget should be taken at the same time as the financial report was adopted, because it does not give the Parliament a chance in principle to accept the closure of the media authority, but at the same time approve the budget for next year, which would not otherwise cause confusion, but a slight delay due to any changes in the figures. Nor do they give us the principle of this, according to the draft agenda drawn up, that Parliament and its Members do not accept it here at their own discretion, just as we good people will not be able to accept the closing report either because of what has been presented in the previous agenda, nor because of the budget for next year, because of our previous criticisms and yet to be drawn up. It is more important than our previous criticism that the legislation again negligees the budgetary principle of unity and completeness, as it continues to create two state budgets for Hungary. One, the smaller, will be the media budget and the other, the central budget to be born in December. First the button, the NMHH, then the coat, the central budget. It's not like that anywhere else. Unit and completeness is a centuries-old budgetary principle, which means that the state must sum up all its revenue and expenditure in one budget and present it so that public finances can be transparent throughout the entire budget. This requirement is also declared by the EU Financial Regulation. According to this, all Community revenue and expenditure should be included in the EU budget, so all financial operations will be put in one place and integrated into the budget. By the way, Zoltán Magyary has formulated this principle for nearly a hundred years, so it is not always necessary to look at the European Union. In fact, the government uses Magyary's name for a project, but the teachings of the name giver seem to have been ignored in the process. The underlying problem stems from the fact that de jure is not part of the public finances nor is it part of the central budget, which has been managed outside it since 1996. The legislation that requires a separate law on the annual budget, and that the bill should not be submitted by the government but by a parliamentary committee, is not technically acceptable. Each budget is a financial plan, but the Committee on Budgets does not deal with planning. You do not have sufficient information, there are no professional rapporteurs among your committees who will analyse you in detail for several weeks, examine the expenditure and revenue appropriations of the bill, consult financial and other experts. The members of the committee submitting the bill do not have sufficient professional insight into the tasks to be addressed by the media institutions and the budget support to be allocated to these tasks, and the funds from which the revenues, in addition to the support, are realistic. Unlike the negotiating practice of the central budget bill, neither the State Audit Office nor the Fiscal Council has an opinion on the media budget. And what the Committee on Budgets doesn't know is what's going on in the details. You have to rely on the professional apparatus of the media institution, which you blindly trust, and ultimately give your blessing to something you do not know at all about its internal composition, since you did not participate in its design. The head of the media authority is not to be asked, is this also the case for our aforementioned MSZP fellow Members? Is that what I think? He was right to speak, even if he didn't quite understand what they were referring to, Mr. Secretary. It means that while the government washes its hands and says that it is an independent autonomous body, it cannot be interpelled against, say, the D.A.'s office. I'm sorry, the prosecutor can't be interpelled now. They've changed that, but you can't even ask him here at the National Assembly. For the time being, we still have the opportunity to do so, even if we get some rather insufferable answers from, say, a general prosecutor, but in the case of the media authority, the Media Council, we do not even have the opportunity to ask questions here in Parliament, because the government refuses to ask questions about this. He does not participate in the parliamentary debate, despite the fact that he has a record number of State Secretarys to the Orbán governments, no State Secretary will participate in such debates as the State Secretary. [[2.20]] Therefore, the head of the media authority cannot be asked, there is no one to interpellet in media matters, and Parliament is practically not exercising any control over NMHH's finances, of course professional, other, content control, and certainly not, but we cannot talk about it now in this agenda. The appropriations of the bill, which the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has subscribed, are hanging in the air and do not comply with the principle of comparability. We see a single column of figures, and individual expenditure and revenue appropriations are not comparable to last year's actual figures or this year's planning data, so the n-2 rule does not apply. The bill in this form is unfit for negotiation. The author also ignores the provisions of the legislative law, there is insufficient background information and impact assessment. It is no coincidence that László Nyikos, then Chairman of the Budget Committee, did not give his name to the Fidesz Vice President in the previous term for such a proposal. Thank you for your attention.
u2014-10-20-391	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak in the lead speaker's round. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application, so we have reached the end of the keynote speeches. I ask the independent Member if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone still has a need to comment. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, who wishes to reply on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2014-10-20-392	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the use of the remains, I would like to inform you that it is in the power of the President, and according to our current knowledge, last year's remains have been used for the digital transition and that next year's remains are intended to be used for the development of electronic utility registers. Obviously, the conditions for this will be found in the report, and questions can be asked about this. I would like to say to Mr Cook, however, that I think that in the budget it was precisely stated that the staff appropriation was HUF 8.3 billion, with total public burdens and all kinds of things, and that it cannot be multiplied by these amounts. And I can tell Mr President Novak that I will never speak of your correctness again, lest he thinks that this is something that can be earned, and that has not yet happened. I just want to tell you that on 10 June the NMHH submitted last year's report and on 11 September the 2015 budget, so these two things did not happen at the same time. The problem arising from Parliament's seating schedule, which slid these two things together, I wouldn't put that in the NMHH's neck. In addition, I believe that a correct budget proposal has been submitted and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss it, to discuss it in detail and then to adopt it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2014-10-20-393	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, In the light of public holidays, amendments may be submitted on Monday 27 October at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. To speak after today's agenda, independent Member László Varju came forward:. Which is the bigger, smoke or flame? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-394	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In a matter of national importance, I would like to draw the attention of the public and of this House once again, as the anomalies of the government's reorganisation of tobacco sales started in 2013 are leading to ever-increasing peaks, and this is faithfully demonstrated by the events of recent months. I would like to draw your attention and remind you that at some point, when this topic was mentioned, it was originally the law, or at least in its title, that the intention was to have this restructuring work in order to protect the health of young people. In comparison, thousands of businesses have ceased to exist, more than ten thousand businesses have ceased to exist, this law has made it impossible, and some 40 thousand people's jobs have been affected. This meant that there was a complete transformation here, with the result that the government granted more than 5,000 seats in a tender that it had issued, who could then continue trading under the name of the National Tobacco Shop Network. This National Tobacco Shop Network has been operating in 5,000 locations as party stores since then, and essentially serves the purpose of operating as units serving Fidesz as a party in a large part of their territorial work. Even in terms of their operation, they carry significant anomalies, but in itself, access to shops, economic opportunities, I think, is the real big dog, the real fraud that the government has committed in this respect. Thus, it is no wonder that if the operation of the Orbán government was known as the traffik government in the past cycle, because it became quite clear that when it divided this market network and this opportunity among those who deserved to do so by virtue of their political activities, they were given an economic opportunity, which was usually an opportunity to run 4-5 or more shops. However, access to these shops could only have been possible if political local approval had been granted. One of the scandals of this was brought to the public by a former Fidesz MEP in Szekszárd, where it became quite clear that such an opportunity could only be given to someone accordingly. We have now reached that point, following a request from its representatives, but the government was only willing to issue a court decision on who they were, who could actually have access to these shops. This 30,000-page package of documents now proves that, in essence, there has been no tender criticism, so I think that the prosecution should consider that it is in the public interest to guide this series of frauds or that it is taking this evaluation into consideration. It can be seen that if we highlight settlements, it is quite clear that those who had to become winners received twice as many points as those who have become losers. This can be traced to Szekszárd, Gödöllő, Csömör, Dunakeszi, Baja, and I could still list the settlements where this was clearly happening, and all of this can be said, at random, for sure, that it is not possible. [[2.30]] Therefore, the points obtained for the business plan, which, in this way, overpointed the pre-ordained winners, have been implemented in this way, and I believe that the authorities must act accordingly. I have repeatedly done the call for attention. Thank you very much for your attention at 2:30 in the morning.
u2014-10-20-395	Thank you very much, Congressman. The government has indicated that it does not wish to respond to what has been said. Mr László Kiss, MEP from MSZP, applied for a post-meeting speech:, October 23rd, a holiday with the title of joining. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-396	Good morning, everyone. Dear House, Mr President, The day after tomorrow is the celebration of the revolution and the fight for independence of 1956, and since there is no meeting of the House until then, the Socialist Group considered it important to commemorate the celebration among the walls of Parliament.The most important message of this revolution and the struggle of freedom to everyone is that, in the moments of history, it is not about who started from where, but where, who comes from. By the mid- 1950s Hungary became unlivable, and the only reason why young people did not leave the country in bulk was because they could not travel. He hid the dictatorship behind the slogans of the party that ruled the state, and these were the passwords of the newspaper without speaking the opposition and the radio. The functioning of the party state was simple: it declared more and more fights, and the intimidated population joined these fights with their fake civil organizations. There's been a struggle against those who claim to want the land back, but there's also a peace fight and a coal battle. Where there's a fight, there's an enemy. It was an enemy who was not enthusiastic enough; who did not serve the system of the local oligarchs of the new power building; who raised his voice against lawlessness; who knew that the constant reference to the people and empty passwords was only a manifestation of cynicism. They were the often elusive, invisible inner enemy. But he was an enemy on the outside. Enemies were those countries that, by continuing to represent the values of freedom, cast a shadow on the government operating under the name of national mandate. Power has struck the enemy. He struck down those who worked in foreign, international organizations, perhaps companies, or were guilty of listening to foreign radio transmitters. He struck down the dissidents, the too independent, the ones who wanted a just world. Dear House, All of this could have continued for a very long time, so it could have gone any distance, unless on October 23, 1956 those who did not care where they came from, but those who went where they were.The heroes of 1956, Imre Nagy, were at the forefront in bringing an end to the rule of arbitrariness together, this endeavour united them. They also committed death so that our country could turn its back on the world of tyranny. Worker, lawyer, doctor, farmer, communist, social democrat, liberal, conservative, religious and atheist? There were almost all kinds of people among the heroes and martyrs of 1956, people of different backgrounds, religions and political backgrounds were one in their struggle for Hungarianism. Imre Nagy, the martyr's prime minister of the revolution, knew exactly what a difficult task he was taking on from day one to the last. He knew that he had to unite the intimidated, oppressed and deceived nation. When faced with the revolution being crushed by Soviet intervention, he also took the martyrdom to unite the nation. He did not ask for mercy, because he also knew that his martyrdom would be the basis of a new nation, a new Hungary. Dear House, We must never forget the message of Imre Nagy's message more than half a century after the 1956 revolution and the struggle for freedom:. It is not important where you come from, but where you are going. Thank you for listening.
u2014-10-20-397	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, On behalf of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, on behalf of the MSZP, has applied for a post-meeting speech:. Are you coming or going? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-398	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to the few Members who are still in Parliament at this hour of dawn. Speaking of '56, it has been said several times today among the walls of this House, how many people have left this country recently. We can agree that most of us would agree that more people than after 56. In the last five or six years, the mass emigration of young people from Hungary has started. According to one expert, 7-8 percent of those in childbearing age are now abroad, while this ratio has been 1-2 percent for a decade. In this regard, in recent months, I have asked Minister Balog a number of questions. Minister of State has stated that what does the government do to stop the emigration of women of childbearing age and to make more children? In his reply to my question, entitled "The Ninety-seven thousand Hungarians work abroad." Compared to this, on the day of sending the reply to the government's website, the number of Hungarian citizens in Great Britain is over 100,000, and the number of Hungarians with non-Hungarian citizenship is approaching 200,000. We remember that earlier György Matolcsy estimated the number of emigrants to be half a million. For all these reasons, I asked another question: Now the number of emigrants is decreasing or increasing. Then did I get the answer from Secretary of State Rétvári that the number of Hungarian citizens working abroad is research estimates? also taking into account countries within Europe? overall, it's about 280 to 300 thousand. So exactly how many people work abroad, 95 thousand or 300,000? Because the two answers didn't match. Then, at the press conference on October 15, 2014, KSH spoke of 350 thousand people. I'm already really embarrassed about which data might be true. It is also surprising that according to the government, the number of returnees from Germany is growing dynamically: 20 thousand returned from Germany in 2010, 24 thousand in 2011, 27 thousand in 2012 and 34 thousand Hungarian citizens returned from Germany in 2013. He added that we have no reason to believe that there is a different trend for other countries. They may come back from Germany, but for example, the number of emigrants is increasing to England. I would like to draw your attention to a recent survey by the government, which, although not representative, contains interesting information about a group of emigrants. According to this, the average Hungarian who emigrated to the island country was educated, young and moved to the United Kingdom just two years ago. According to the research, because of the economic situation they migrated, they don't want to come home at all, at least not in the next five years. Today, not every third young person under the age of 30 thinks that he wants to go abroad, but every second, 50 percent of Hungarian youths. There are a lot of questions about this that young people are coming or going; how many people want to emigrate; how many people are actually out abroad; how many families have moved in the last four years. Here, because my time is running out, I would like to quote a few sentences from this press conference, which was held by the KSH:. The systematic development of migration statistics requires the integration of administrative data systems. We propose the establishment of a permanent body on migration and its social impact, established from various actors in the public administration, which can coordinate and support a wide range of public administration and other registers, and is able to initiate a continuous review of the statistical and other investigations data system. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[2.40]] The question arises whether KSH is able to perform its task or not to perform its task, to provide us with real data from month to month, or to continuously cosmeticate the data, and why it is necessary to create a new organization. We hope that someday we will get an answer from the current government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2014-10-20-399	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Speaking after the agenda, President Novák, Jobbik, Member of the European Parliament:. Why can't a Member comment on the report submitted every five years by the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, and what was left out of it? It's an address. I'll give the floor to Mr. President Novak in five minutes.
u2014-10-20-400	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I prepared a taboo final speech with the names of agents raised by the government in the Cultural Committee of the Parliament, where the five-yearly report of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services was on the agenda last Monday. However, the political custom was interrupted by Fidesz when I was not allowed to present Jobbik's position as the policy-makers of the national opposition, even though I am not a member of the committee, but never mind, we avoided the ban, Gergely Farkas, my groupmate read my speech plan there. Now what? because this report cannot be on the agenda at all in plenary and the activities of the National Remembrance Committee for Time? I'm trying to talk to the SABTL's report for at least a few minutes, even if it's only now, after 2:30 in the morning. In addition to the generous state aid, the archive, which is also living with the support of the famous Norwegian fund, should lead the exploration of the state security past, but unfortunately it does not. Unfortunately, with the use of ÁBTL, the Orbán government has continued the rehabilitation of the State Security Past, the replacement of former professional staff and certain members of the agency network since 2010. They can also be given government functions, valued and decorated. László Tasnádi, former Chief of Staff III/II, Sándor Pintér's Chief of Staff has finally beaten the guarantee to the Minister of State for the Interior. I note that Sándor Pintér's Chief National Security Advisor, Maj-Gen Kálmán Kocsis, was responsible for the implementation of the III-I. Deputy Chief of Staff. Even in the appointments of the first Orbán government, in its staff policy and in its cader development plans, the past of state security was a competitive advantage. This is demonstrated by János Martonyi, Imre Boros, László Nógrádi, Zsigmond Járai, Sándor Kopátsy or Károly Szita. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán still has a special relationship with Agents Báthori and Lawrence. The former is a Reformed, the latter is a Catholic bishop. Even though I threw these things in the Prime Minister's eyes today on an immediate question, he did not think it necessary to respond to it, even though he still had time to speak in his clumsy reply. Instead of exposing and setting aside those who have sinned in the past, there is today recognition and uplifting. Each of these former socialist countries is moving forward in the management of the dark historical heritage. The post-1990 political elite is reprehensiblely guilty of a lack of satisfactory legal settlement on agent matters. György Gyarmati, Director General of ÁBTL, joined academics and university professors in abstract concepts who sometimes encourage researchers not to think in agents, but in structures. So nothing concrete, just a principled approach. On the other hand, the everyday reality is that we already know the structure of state security from the party centre to the head office of the State Security Group, back and forth, but we should note that not structures, but agents were sent to the Hungarian Parliament, state and executive organizations, and people would like to hear names and not structures after 24 years. Confessing the past, apologizing, providing information compensation, moral satisfaction only to specific individuals and non-conventional structures. We'll leave this kind of smearing to the National Remembrance Committee. Finally, only in headlines about what was missing from the archives report. What proposals did the ÁBTL make for a satisfactory legal settlement of agent matters to meet the needs of society towards Parliament or the government? In fact, why didn't they do that? What amount of documents are unduly withheld by today's secret services, and who could force them to deliver them legally as soon as possible? What documents have been scrapped and excluded by the institution during the 15 years and in 2012? Finally, are you not afraid that the pro-government National Remembrance Committee, which has not yet dealt with agent matters, will suddenly, by way of a higher decision, incorporate the Historical Archives of the State Security Services as its branch institution and server? We know a similar example, so one of the departments of the National Széchényi Library became the Institute of 56. We can't get answers to questions like that unless it's on the Jobbik government. In the meantime, we welcome all Hungarian compatriots in the Corvin interrogation at 4 p.m. on 23 October, where the central memorial of Jobbik will be, recalling the spirit of Gergely Pongráz. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2014-10-20-401	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that Mr Sallai R. Benedek and Mr István Ikotity have withdrawn their speeches after the agenda. Finally, Mr Ander Balázs Jobbikos asked for an after-the-date speech:. Somogyország will eliminate itself, or the population disaster of Somogy County? Part I. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2014-10-20-402	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleague Novak and Kiss, Followers of foreign policy, too, may remember what a huge scandal broke out in Germany in August 2010, when Thilo Sarrazin, a columnist member of the Social Democratic Party, who is a banker, a member of the Bundesbank Presidency, published his book of political correctness rocking the poodles walls. Germany will eliminate itself, supported by data, 464 pages of its massive study under provocative brutality, on topics which are organically related to each other, and which have been avoided until then by the suicideous strategy of the ostrich stuck in the sand, such as the increasing proportion of immigrants in German society and their integration problems, such as below-average educational outcomes, below-average labour market indicators, above-average crime and even above-average dependence on social care systems. The book caused a real shock, but it also became a bestseller very quickly. But Sarrazint's party companions, the polcorn blinders, cannot shed and think too stupid or cowardly, so sensitive to tolerance, so acidized by balliberals, killed him. We can also witness similar phenomena in the case of Hungarian society, which is intended to maintain a permanent criminal national status by the extreme liberals. One of Hungary's biggest taboos is that the demographic demography of the Hungarian nation and the associated ageing and ethnic restructuring are politically sensitive topics that should not be discussed in the spirit of political correctness. And anyone who tries to draw attention to the troubles, too, will soon be forced out of the shoreline by the hungarophobic tellers. Based on demographic trends, the real demographic perspective forces people with a complex set of problems to think about and be responsible, so that the questions and answers they have raised legally can almost determine the brand that they want to bake: nationalist, Hungarianist, racist. As Bishop Béla Balás said in Somogyi Hírlap's issue of 19 April 2014: "A hundred years after the extinction of the Ormany, death also came to Somogy. I get reports every year that twice or three times, sometimes ten times more than baptism. This is not only the withdrawal of the church, but also the disappearance of the rural population. What has been happening in Hungary for decades in the process of population development is unprecedented in our entire history. The tragic weight loss of our nation is not caused by external violence, but by a shockingly drastic decline in the fertility of Hungarian mothers. [[2.50]] Those who are aware of the weight of the problem arising from Hungary's first question of fate are now not afraid of the widespread and devastating consequences of population explosion, but of demographic collapse, as population policy is complex in its interaction with health policy, social policy, employment policy, housing policy and education policy, and therefore can only be seen in its depth in its complexity. The demographic disaster on the Hungarian nation seems almost unsolvable, and immediate action is more urgent than anything else. Appreciating the weight of danger, we share our political responsibility with our nation-worried writers and poets. Because how did Illyés, Babits, or Gyula Fekete put it? You need to talk, you need to cry, you need to cry, you need to cry until someone finds the defense. This isn't about conservation. This would be the salvation of an ambitious and precious spirit, which we can only save if we save the people, the living body of the most primal. Once the Hungarians are destroyed, they will die unmemorable, unmistakable. Nobody barks at us. We also share the resolution of the Hundreds Council on our demographic situation in 2009, according to which there is a strong link between the weak performance of the Hungarian economy, unfortunately, its state of bankruptcy and the demographic crisis. The Hungarian people have to deal with an illusion: the further deepening of population failure? What is meant by keeping the number of births deep below the reproductive level and further increase in the proportion of old people and weight loss? There is no hope of recovery from economic bankruptcy and nothing good at all. In fact, he has to face further decline in all areas of life. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Novak's First Clap.]]
u2014-10-20-403	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander. I would like to inform you that the representative of the government has indicated that he does not wish to respond to what has been said. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 27 October 2014. Thank you for your work. I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 2:52 p.m.]]
