u2019-11-04-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In 2013, the Hungarian Government adopted 237/2001 on national mourning. With the amendment of Government Decree No. 4 November was also declared a day of mourning. On this day we remember the determined warriors, heroes and civilian victims of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. At 4:15 a.m. on Sunday, November 4, 1956, the Soviet army launched a general attack on our country. The Hungarian people did not stand idly by, there was spontaneous or organized armed resistance in several parts of the country. Ordinary people: adults and children, students, professional and enlisted soldiers, national guards, policemen fought against one of the world's largest armies. You all knew that the fight was not between equals, but the Hungarian resistance was determined to fight. On this day, from the Free Kossuth Radio in the Parliament, Prime Minister Imre Nagy's dramatic radio speech was delivered, in which he turned to the nation's people and the world's public opinion. Shortly thereafter, the radio broadcast ceased, the building was flooded by Soviet soldiers. The former location of the radio studio is marked today by a plaque. Ladies and gentlemen, The military occupation of 4 November 1956 was followed by widespread retaliation. Those who couldn't or didn't want to escape were expected to be executed, interned, imprisoned, or for many decades to live with the daily slaps in the face of neglect and contempt, pushed to the periphery of society. Overall, there are over 200 death sentences, over 20,000 prosecutions, over 200,000 exiles, and who knows how many more crippled human fates. All hope of the soul-lifting revolution, which began with a large peaceful demonstration on 23 October, vanished in days, but neither weapons, criminal justice, nor dictatorship for decades could crush its memory, nor have the heroes and victims of the revolution vanished from our memory. Please welcome the Honourable Parliament with a silent standing on the occasion of the national day of mourning. [[The people in this room salute a mute lineup.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I declare that Imre László, DK, representative, resigned on 29 October 2019, and József Tóbias, MSZP, Member resigned on 1 November 2019. I would like to inform you that in view of the resignations of the two Members previously announced, Ádám Mirkóczki and Tamás Pintér, the number of Members of Parliament is currently 195. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform the Honourable Parliament, and two of our former fellow Members have passed away recently. Dr. József Nagy-Bozsoky was a member of the Hungarian Parliament from 1990 to 1994 and obtained his mandate from the 10th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, in the colours of MDF. During his term of office, he assisted the Defence Committee. In addition to his political career, he worked as a pathologist and a forensic medical examiner. He was also the chief doctor of the city hospital in Tátaljaújhely, the chairman of the medical chamber in Zemplén and the national chief doctor of the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service. He died in the 81st year of his life. Dr. Tibor Huszár was also included in the Hungarian Parliament in the first free parliamentary elections, in 1990 as a candidate outside the party of the Hungarian Socialist Party, on its national list, and was a member of the Parliament until the end of the year. Széchenyi István Prize-winning sociologist, university professor, was a correspondent and then a regular member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Between 1983 and 1992 he was the founding director of the Sociology Institute of Eötvös Loránd University. He passed away 89 years of his life. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Before the agenda, MEP Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition applied for a pre-meeting with the title of a new concept case against MEP László Varju. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last week, János Áder nominated Peter Polt as the Attorney General again. More appropriate, I mean, he couldn't have chosen something more suitable for Fidesz, maybe just Visinsky, Stalin's Attorney General, but he's no longer alive. Mr. Polt doesn't lead an indictment, he does lead defence, which protects fidesz politicians from prison. Over the past nine years, this prosecutor's office has covered up hundreds of conceptual cases in which it was feared that the investigation might reveal the involvement of pro-government politicians. He saw no signs of crime in the traffikmutyi, in the downtown municipal estates, in the settlement bonds, Quaestor Matolcsy approved his fictitious bond issue, 260 billion public funds in the bail-out of the MNB Foundations, FBI and Interpol wanted him on Ghaith Pharaon's visa, seven million dollars from the Azerbaijani axe killer when he was released, and also in the Elios and Microsoft scandals related to István Tiborcz. He failed to find evidence against the Moscow agricultural attaché of the Orbán government, Szilárd Kiss, who granted thousands of Schengen visas to Russian prostitutes and criminals. Our former colleague, Dr. Csaba Molnár, told us in an interview that he initiated an investigation into almost 40 cases with Péter Polt, who, however, did not find any evidence of a crime in either case. According to all statements, our country is one of the most corrupt countries in the European Union, yet the prosecutor's office has brought only three accusations against representatives of small fish, Flórián Farkas, Roland Mengyi and György Simonka, who were thrown to the public as cons. [[13.10]] The D.A.'s office is also depraved as a means of political pressure and revenge. Remember the conceptual lawsuits against former Minister of Defence Ferenc Juhász and László Fapál, György Szilvásy and Sándor Laborc or Árpád Székely, Márta Fekszi and their associates in the case of the Moscow commercial branch. [[István Szilárd Németh: Conception lawsuits...]] These extorted and eventually exonerated men had only one sin: they filled their leading positions during the Gyurcsány government. [[István Szilárd Németh: It was their crime to be traitors!]] Miklós Tátrai and Zsolt Császy said that they had to go to prison because they refused to give false testimony against the main target of political revenge, Ferenc Gyurcsány. Csaba Czeglédy may have had the guts to win a lot of lawsuits on behalf of MSZP and DK, and the ridiculous accusations brought to justice by Lieutenant Judge Béla Varga, and Brigadier General, for refusing to arrest György Szilvasy in advance. The Curia's verdict stated that it is safe to call Peter Polt's prosecutor's office a fidesz. Well, this Fidesz prosecutor's office is now accusing László Varju of disorderly conduct and aggravated assault. As memorable, on 16-17 December last year, some opposition representatives, including László Varju, entered the headquarters of MTVA, where they should have been allowed to present their credentials and asked to read a statement of opposition. Despite their mandate under the Parliamentary Act, the security guards obstructed the free movement within the building and attempted to remove them by force. This is where I note that the same company that provided security services has since been fired by Magyar Television; they may have had something to do with each other. The Óbuda court ruled that the representatives were legally resident in the building and that the violence against them was illegal. The victim of this violence was László Varju, who, according to a film recording, was crushed by seven security guards, twisted his hands, his feet, and even one of them sat on it. So László Varju, and let's say that again, he was legally in the building, and because the attack on him was illegal, his defense was the Btk. He considered it to be a legitimate protection. Therefore, it would not be punishable if it had indeed injured one of the attackers in the defence; otherwise, in the last year there was no news of any injury to anyone; it was difficult to detect it against one. Dear House, I didn't think Péter Polt could surprise me with anything else, but this impertinent impertinence, the accusation of the seven-time outnumbered ambulance-delivered representative being charged with assault, is still shocking. László Varju will obviously be released, and the independent court will absolve him. Peter Polt should be aware of this. Then why would you do that? Well, the answer is simple: Viktor Orbán told him that the MTVA was his alone, that someone else had to go from there, and that Peter Polt did nothing but deliver the message. And we refuse to take this message. László Varju is innocent [[A statement from the Fidesz: Meg Czeglédy! Sure.]] And we're gonna prove it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-04-2	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I wouldn't even like to qualify for Csaba Czeglédy's apology. As regards the other case raised, [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] "We do not comment in detail on matters and procedures that come before this House, let us say, because it is a matter of suspending immunity, I would not do so now, that is the job of the authorities. I just want to clarify that the principle, the principle that is important to us, remains the same: the laws must be followed by everyone, regardless of the party they belong to and what their political convictions are. If László Varju hasn't broken the laws, then he'll come clean, and if he's offended, it will have consequences. It's not worth hiding behind immunity. Allow me to ask you, Your Honour, that you think it's okay for politicians to barge into editorials, is that all right? Or is it okay to suspect that a politician [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Are you trying to cheat against the order of elections? If there's any suspicion that your representatives are committing lawlessness, we're not the ones to be held accountable. I do realize that that will be quite difficult in the party where Ferenc Gyurcsány is the leader. Besides, it's easy for you to get your blood pressure up when you talk about democracy and the rule of law. Because you have surrounded this building with cordons; you have been shot into the peacefully protesting crowd. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] It was you who, instead of apologizing for it, even decorated those responsible. (Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. ) So how can you ask anyone to account for it? [[A statement from DK: Is that an argument?]] If we have to describe your policy in logos, then your democracy concept is a rubber bullet, a sticky hand for your policy. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] And their ideology would be the logo of a red star. We don't want to do it again. [[You're talking about Fidesz, aren't you?]] to see these. Honourable Congressman, While we're here, I'd like to respond to one more thing. What the country can expect from you is well illustrated by the policy that you have shown in recent months, such as the policy that Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife has conducted in Brussels. That's what this is all about. [[Gergely Arató: Klára Dobrev, memorize his name, it's called! The president's ringing the bell.]] that the candidates of the Hungarian government are constantly being drilled in Brussels. There is not much to say about another Member State where opposition representatives have such a vehemence on the candidates of their own country. [[Szabó Timea: No! Just yours. Only the Orbán candidates.]] It's November 4th, and on November 4th, we can't help but think that the left hasn't changed anything: they're taking sides with foreigners before their own country. And there is another serious element in your Brussels policy: they are campaigning again to prevent Hungary from getting EU funds [[A statement from the opposition: Don't lie.]] the government cannot decide whether to distribute them. [[A statement from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's hard to find words for that, too, because if [[Szabó Timea: They were scared!]] This would be done, not by the government, not by Fidesz, but by the whole country. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] On the one hand, if the government does not receive EU funds, if the country does not receive EU funds, then it does not mean that left-wing cities would receive it, much more so to countries [[Szabó Timea: István Tiborcz will not get it!]] I could make money without this type of opposition minework. On the other hand, if you were to transfer the money to the left-wing local governments, it only proves that you want to distribute them on a political basis, and this is just the left facing the fundamental values of the EU that you have said a lot. Wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Gergely Harvest: Klára Dobrev!]] once led the coordinating agency for EU funds [[Szabó Timea: Shame on you!]] with the known result. Their family company has received hundreds of millions of orders from Brussels, but it doesn't seem to be enough. That is not enough; once again, they want EU funds, which they want to distribute on a political basis. And this case proves nothing but that the driving force behind their policies is not the growth of the country, but the cons and powers that can be obtained. [[Szabó Timea: This is really said by a fidesz...]] So our political community has a lot to do, but there is one more task: we must not let the post-communist clan that almost brought this country to its knees come back. [[We're talking about Fidesz, aren't we?]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-4	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, For a pre-meeting speech, Madam Head of the Szabó Timea Group, from the Dialogue Group, entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-04-5	Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, a new era begins in Budapest: Gergely Karácsony led by Mayor Gergely, the new city council will hold its inaugural meeting tomorrow. From tomorrow, Budapest's nine years of oppression will finally be officially over, and from tomorrow, the privileges of Fidesz buddies will be over, and from tomorrow, Budapest will belong to everyone again. [[13.20]] From tomorrow, hatred, enemy production will be over, and from tomorrow, we will build a united and solidarity city. From tomorrow, the persecution of the people of poverty for nine years is over, and from tomorrow, our vulnerable associates will finally receive help and not punishment. From tomorrow, the nine years of lying propaganda production will be over, and from tomorrow, people will finally have access to the truth. From tomorrow the nine-year stoning will be over, from tomorrow we will plant trees in Budapest. The Metropolitan Assembly will start its work tomorrow with important decisions that show that Gergely Christmas offers a humane and viable future for the people of Budapest. This livable future begins with preparations for climate change, which is why tomorrow the new mayor announces the climate crisis. While you are mocking climate change, a survey by the European Commission shows that all Hungarians are concerned about climate change, because they know that in 20 years' time the world we know will not exist. Fortunately, Gergely Christmas, co-president of the Dialogue, pursues a more responsible policy and immediately commences the development of climate protection measures. Tomorrow's decision will also be to ban the slave law in all capital institutions. As long as you and Viktor Orbán still believe that people are being worked to death, Budapest and free cities will show you how to run cities without chasing people into a heart attack or a cancer disease, stressful workers, but also to provide a decent life for all workers. Then one of the most pressing problems will be on the agenda, including health care. Gergely Christmas promised not to build a stadium in Budapest until there are CTs and MRs in every district, and she keeps to it. The capital board will therefore adopt tomorrow the proposal of Gergely Christmas to immediately begin the development of health care in the capital. Then, as a Member of the Parliament of Óbuda-Békásmegyer, the fate of the Roman coast is of particular importance to me, and tomorrow we will finally get this under control. The will of the people will prevail, since there will be no mobile barrier on the coast of Rome. We don't let Fidesz real estate speculators cut down trees and destroy tens of thousands of families' resting places. Finally, tomorrow, under the leadership of Christmas, civilians will accept this minimum! It also has its transparency programme. End of fidesz inaccessible public procurement, untraceable wealth in the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, These are just some of the first steps in the new life of Budapest. But these few steps exactly show that from here on out, it will not be the enrichment of the Fidesz politicians, but the well-being of the people first. Of course, we know that Viktor Orbán is already thinking about how he can destroy the new leadership of Budapest. We know that Viktor Orbán is crazy about the idea that the new humane and solidarity leadership will be the end of his governance in 2022. We know that Viktor Orbán is playing exactly to drive a wedge in the united opposition. They're gonna have a fight anyway. You can't keep this coalition together. Well, we have bad news for Viktor Orbán: this unit will not fall apart, we will not fall apart. They won't be able to drive a wedge between us, because the voters are behind us, and our constituents have clearly put their vote next to this unit. Yes, there will be difficulties, there will surely be issues in which we will not fully agree, and, yes, sometimes it will be harder to hold this team together. But let us send a message to Viktor Orbán that we would rather have the differences that we will resolve than that this country has to live in its tyranny for another four years, after 2022. This idea will lead us in the next two years, five years and ten years, which will lead our constituents and our work. There is no disagreement that will be more important than to replace the hatred government in 22 and create a humane, happy country. And we will do that, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, together with everyone. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-04-6	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What can be expected of you in the future will show more than anything else what you have done and what you have not done in the last few days. It begins with the fact that in many places the first thought of the newly elected leaders was how to bypass the body. That's what happened in Zuglo, but they also wanted to simplify the decisions needed to sell real estate in Óbuda. It is so typical, honourable Member, that, if they have the opportunity, they will immediately attack the sale of real estate! It's so 2006, but it's so 2006! What did you say? Transparency. A week ago, the newly elected mayor of Zugló said that he had never before had and no plans to sell real estate, that he appeared in Népsza on the same day as a bunch of ads selling real estate by giving them up by the municipality of Zugló. That's what your transparency is all about. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] But that's not the only thing the past is sneaking back in. Let's see, say, the Deputy Mayors. There'll be, like, five of them. Five! [[Szabó Timea: Well, this is a disaster!]] Five inspectors behind and above Gergely Christmas, including a MSZP leader who was head of the Public Procurement Committee during the Hagyó era. Head of the Procurement Committee. Did you have one word about the 4th metro project where the money was made up? Then Gy comes back. Erzsébet Németh is also a deputy, he was a faction leader in the Demszky-era. Freak leader! The deputy Kiss Ambrus was close to the Gyurcsány-Bajnai-Medgyessy fire as early as 2003, he was a consultant at the Prime Minister's Office, but he was Péter Kiss's chief of staff, and in the post- Autumn period he was also a secretary of state. There is also a nicely grown renewal here. All we need is Miklós Hagyó's parizer. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] Then let's talk about another phenomenon, about planning things, planning decisions that there wasn't a word about in the campaign. There wasn't a word! Well, did it ever occur to you that you don't support the hundreds of billionaire NewBuda super hospital? Was there any mention of that? They didn't say a word about it. Annex XI is amended as follows: district mayor wants to drill this. So if you're gonna put health care on the agenda tomorrow, please start by consulting the newly elected left-wing mayors, because they don't seem to want a new super hospital. [[Szabó Timea: We will do it!]] And on all other developments, I urge you to form your position, because the government is in vain trying to make great improvements in Budapest if the newly elected leadership wants to prevent this. This applies to the Liget Budapest investment as well as to sports facilities or transport developments. You often campaign for cutting red tape. I mentioned that the number of deputy mayors will increase to five at City Hall. [[Szabó Timea: There are 200 State Secretarys!]] Instead of three Obudas, there'll be five deputies. Annex XI is amended as follows: The number of deputy mayors in the district doubles, and it is reported that in Terézváros there will be twice as many, including Gergely Christmas's former secretary-general will be given such a deputy mayor's seat. And this is just the beginning. So much for how effective your city manager's practice is. The only thing that matters to you is that every actor gets a position, as many logos, as many party logos, as many posts, and as many payments. And there is one more thing I think is important: ideological warfare has returned. Gergely Christmas promised that she would also represent those who did not vote for her. Compared to this, the ideological steamroller has started. Tell me, what did St. Stephen do to stop you from exhibiting your statue in the park named after him? ! What did he do? By the way, I'm asking Jobbik how they feel about this new coalition. And the story doesn't stop here. You refer to freedom of speech, but the newly elected mayor of Ferencváros wants to personally oversee the district paper. And there are some metropolitan newspapers they want to make impossible. [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting. The president's ringing the bell.]] They're proclaiming freedom of culture, but they've already told directors that if there are new applications, they won't win. So much for your bidding exercise. So all in all, your freedom will mean that only left-wing and liberal circles will get air. The Demszky era is really back! We take note of that, but do not refer to the fact that they represent everyone. And democracy, please, do not speak out of the shadow of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Szabó Timea Head of Action Woman! As I recall, you were listened to by the Secretary of State, and you were commenting and yelling the whole time. It's pointless! [[Szabó Timea: I didn't yell!]] Be nice, don't argue. [[Szabó Timea: Why not? No, I'm not. I'm not arguing.]] Thank you. [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Respect for the heroes, shame on the traitors! It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-11-04-9	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I think that I can make so many requests to all of us here, my fellow Members, that on the national day of mourning, I think it is extremely important that all Members exercise their responsibilities with a little more dignity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would add that this, I think, should also apply to the Members who are sitting against me, who are defining themselves as national, who have been constantly talking about it, have yelled at the speech of fellow opposition Members. Well, it is our very strong opinion that on the national day of mourning, we can start the parliamentary session with nothing but to remember the heroes who sacrificed their lives in 1956 or risked their lives in order for Hungary to become a free country. It was a pure revolution and a war of freedom, where thousands of brave men fought against an invincible opponent, the Soviet power. I would especially like to remember those who continued this heroic struggle until the last moment or even beyond that. Allow me to pay special attention to the memory of those who are now called the Invisibles of Mecsek, who have fought the Soviets and the Collaborators for weeks after the Soviet invasion in the mountains and forests of Mecsek. These brave warriors continued to fight because they trusted that Hungary would receive external help. However, we know that this proved to be a vain hope. After all, Hungary was then made a toy of great authority interests, and our country became the prey of their great deals. We know exactly what happened after the destruction of the revolution, decades of betrayal, retribution, villainy, in the remaining decades of communism. The situation that was typical in 1956 when Soviet soldiers killed Hungarians, when there was virtually a war situation in Budapest, cannot be compared to today's situation is quite clear. At the same time, we must say that and see that the betrayal of the nation, anti-national politics, is present today. And there is also the granting of great authority to the country. Speaker László Fatzló has been speaking in such a way that it is impossible to release those who refuse the nation. I think those powers are already in power. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz have forgotten everything that could never have been forgotten. They forgave everyone they could never forgive, and they defied everything, and they defied all the values they once fought for. I think we need to say that today, as we respectfully remember the heroes. Viktor Orbán and his government are once again serving the country's great interests in order to remain in power. It's exposed to Russian interests, Chinese interests, or even if political winds bring it to Turkish interests. It can also be said that János Kádár used Soviet tanks, and Viktor Orbán used the Russian nuclear train to extend his reign. We all know that in Hungary generations will be indebted to the lie of the Paks enlargement, the multibillion-dollar project of the Russians. We also know that the nearly a thousand billion-dollar project of Budapest-Belgrád railway development cannot be justified in any way from the point of view of Hungarian national interests, the more we look at the Chinese interests. We have to say that serving great authority interests and governance and politics against Hungarian national interests is nothing more than treason. I think the saddest result of Fidesz's policy, if not today's situation, is definitely comparable to the sad legacy of 56. The result of Viktor Orbán's governance is the shocking exodus that affected hundreds of thousands of people. From 2011 onwards, we can see clearly how many people were forced to leave the country for economic reasons. Thousands of families have been permanently torn apart. We must also point out that the Fidesz government is cynical in desecrating the victims of the dictatorship of communism by constantly obstructing the exploration of the past of state security. We know very well that so far, 19 times my fellow Members who have declared themselves national have voted to explore the past of state security. Soon, it will be possible for 20 times to stand there and try to vote on their conscience. To add, we obviously have no illusions. Soon this proposal will be back on Parliament's agenda. Overall, I would like to conclude by saying that there is consensus here that today's most important message is respect for heroes and, at the same time, a disgrace to national traitors. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You started by saying that there is a need for greater protection of Parliament's dignity. We in the pro-government part of the horseshoe fully agree with that, honourable Member. But we do not believe that we should be the ones to fear the dignity of Parliament. I think you should look a little to the right, a little to the left, look back. Think back a few weeks ago what Ákos Hadházy did here, in the Hungarian Parliament! That, in your words, served the greater dignity of Parliament? Did you make a single comment to him, your former party partner, your former president, that you might not have done that? And would it have been better for the opposition if you hadn't taken that step? Or when your new allies, the right-wingers, took over the pulpit here in Parliament and didn't allow the president to proceed with the vote, did you comment on this to your new allies that it might not have served the greater dignity of Parliament? Or on December 12, last year, when you were already here in Parliament, perhaps you were opposed to your own faction meeting, if any, so that you wouldn't show the kind of attitude in which you whistled, drummed, sirened, and tried everything to prevent Parliament from making decisions? On December 12th, when, among other things, we decided on matters such as the introduction of a child's home care fee or the introduction of a foster child's child, did he still speak and defend the greater dignity of the House? I urge you to go on this road and do not stop halfway and tell these fellow Members not to do such things. So much for your first remark, honourable Member, about the dignity of this House. I think that is why you really can do the most in the opposition benches to be worthy of the quality of Hungary's parliament to the Hungarian electorate, and do not allow yourself to engage in actions in parliament which, by the way, no Member of the European Union will allow in any parliament of the European Union. In fact, even in the Parliament of the European Union, no one will allow themselves, only and only the Hungarian opposition will stand up here in the Hungarian Parliament. Nowhere else in Europe will anyone allow this to happen, as regards the protection of Parliament's dignity, honourable Member. They agreed with you that 63 years ago the Hungarians who faced the most powerful army in the world, who did not measure, did not seek compromises, but sought freedom. After a couple of years of terrible communist oppression, they even sacrificed their lives in order to free themselves, their families, or their homeland. And indeed, honourable Member, you did not express this line of thought, but in vain they trusted that anyone from the so-called developed Western world would come here and do more than a 1500-character communication along democratic values; that any kind, whether by military demonstration or by any economic penalty, would bring the Soviet Union that repressed Hungary to its knees, and that the so-called developed Western world, the guardian of democracy, would do anything to ensure that the Soviet troops stationed in Hungary illegally could not have been stationed here after the Austrian withdrawal, and that compliance with this international law would have been achieved by the Soviet Union, honourable Member. They didn't do that. And it is an eternal lesson for us that we Hungarians can count on ourselves. You are constantly looking for Brussels Ukasas, quoting various London analysts, or trying to follow instructions from all kinds of open networks from New York instead of finally taking their heels. The LMP had this opportunity, it's too bad it's melted into this balliberal, some political conglomerate in which they're now, and they're trying to make their last characters disappear. Well, it's a pity they didn't learn from the fact that the service of national interest is the most important. Honourable Congressman, For this reason, the service of national interest comes from precisely the Hungarian interest, as we have written in our Fundamental Law, and today's freedom dates back to 56. Honourable Congressman, You're talking about russian, Chinese, Turkish interests. And when you and Merkel and Macron Putin and Erdoğan agree together on various matters, you know the reports of these meetings, why don't you go to the German embassy and protest to the French embassy about why they're holding hands? As regards the exploration of the past of state security, honourable Member, this Parliament set up the National Remembrance Committee a period and a half ago to present its full power mechanism to the Communist dictatorship. [[György Szi-Lágyi: To prevent the disclosure of the agent files.]] With this amendment, we have also adopted the legislation in which everyone can request the documents that may relate to it and then make it public. Anyone who believes that he wants to demonstrate the inhumane functioning of the communist dictatorship even through his own personal example can now do so on the basis of the law we have adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2019-11-04-12	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of Group, MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-11-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, 63 years ago, on November 4th, the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence began, the occupation of Hungary, after which hundreds of freedom-loving people were executed, tens of thousands were imprisoned, and thousands of people gave their lives for freedom during the revolution. We remember this event with a national day of mourning, but today, in view of today's actuality, it is indeed a national day of mourning. Unfortunately, today we have come to the point that today's repressive power, Orbán's system, is doing the same thing that the Hungarians said no to 63 years ago. It pursues freedom of opinion, controls the press, violates equality of rights, crushes legal certainty, denies solidarity. The means of oppression have been refined and modernized, but the point is the same: intimidation, abuse, moral destruction of opponents, fear, hatred, scapegoating and manipulation, corruption in every amount. What we can see, fellow Members, is that neither Áder nor Orbán understood the message of 13 October. That you've had enough of the power of the Fidesz little kings, enough of the corruption, enough of the stupid, lying propaganda. If the message had been understood, at the initiative of János Áder today, it would not be necessary to decide on another 4 November on two fidesz cadres, Polt and Hando, who are actively involved in the undermining of Hungarian democracy. They are the ones who, as loyal soldiers of the repressive system, have been actively involved in the dismantling of the rule of law and the dismantling of democracy. In other places, there will be punishment, but in Orbán's system there will be a new assignment or appointment of a Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, We confess that the brakes and balances His system is not a stupid thing, as the electoral president of the party of repressive power said, but a democracy like air to man. If it doesn't, if it doesn't work, it's gone, it's gone. And if the system of separation of powers does not work in democracy, the system of brakes and counterweights will be abolished, there will be sovereignty and autocracy, that is, democracy will cease, as has happened in Weimar Germany. Therefore, we consider it a facial toaster that a man who is not independent of the state party may be re-elected to the head of the prosecution. With Péter Polt in the lead, the prosecutor's senior management and some of the confidants are not the servants, but the most important pillars of the repressive Fidesz power. The key function of the system is that state corruption through mafia methods is facilitated by the prosecution by not doing anything, Péter Polt accomplices. Therefore, we will not support him or the appointment of Fae Hando. Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed a national day of mourning, a day of freedom and democracy, as Russia's President Putin has recently visited Hungary, and Turkish President Erdoğan is arriving at the invitation of the Prime Minister. And if we have heard the suggestion of the Secretary of State here about freedom, we are talking about mourning at the time, in November 1956, because of an established conflict in the world, the Western world has turned a blind eye to the occupation of Hungary. And today, not only does our prime minister turn a blind eye, but he specifically supports a military action that concerns the repression of a loving people who fear his freedom, and the destruction and murder of innocent members. Once again, there is a power agreement in the world that overlooks this. All I talk about is that the Hungarian Prime Minister spits on the 1956 heroes by explicitly supporting such an intervention. Here in Parliament's building, he said: what is the problem with Syrians being planted in Syria? Was it not a problem when Swabians were deployed and Hungarians were deployed in Hungary? Was that a problem? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You did it!]] This is the grief of freedom, this is what it spits on the memory of the revolution, by supporting an aggressor, and we must protest against it. [[István Szilárd Németh: Where are the judges of the blood?]] And the 13th of October was supposed to be a message to understand the Hungarian people's words. [[Csaba Dömötör: Sure!]] And finally, I would just like to say to Mr Dömötör, Secretary of State, that the opposition role looks good, and get used to it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party has not been able to step out of its own ring of thinking, and decades have not been enough, and now it has supported the same with its last sentences, honourable Member. To set up such a parallel to help Syrian people return to their own homeland, which is what many other countries do, so also Hungary, when it rebuilds houses in Iraq or elsewhere, to go back, and you make this a parallel to the Hungarians in the highlands from their homeland where they lived a thousand years ago, the II. At the end of World War II, they forced me out and relocated me to Hungary, where none of their ancestors lived before, because they lived in the Highlands, they were Hungarians from the Highlands! And you make a parallel of these two, that's exactly the same thinking that the II. Communist Czechoslovak State Party after World War II and everyone else wanted to force it into the world: that Hungarians have never lived outside the territory of Hungary in Trianon. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You protect murderers!]] And with the same parallel, you are confirming the same narrative, Member; instead of protecting Hungarian communities across the border, instead of saying that it is legal to relocate Hungarians across the border from the Highlands to Hungary by force. Unacceptable, honourable Member. And what you have been doing here since 2010, there is no six months before you bury the Hungarian freedom of the press. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's already buried!]] While the most read news portal blows wind into your sails. The most watched news, the news of the RTL Club, also edits news for your benefit. The most watched news television, ATV, also cannot be accused of pro-government bias. And then you stand up here in Parliament, saying that there is no freedom of the press in Hungary, and that the opposition has no potential. Only the most read news portal, the most watched newscast, and the most watched news channel. Honourable Congressman, If there were such legal uncertainty in Hungary as you said in your introduction, why would so many investors come to Hungary? Why would the economy expand so much? Why would so many apartments be built if people didn't feel it, Hungarian companies and foreign companies wouldn't feel that, yes, it is possible to plan in Hungary? Just now, there is predictability, not as in your time, before 2010, when Ferenc Gyurcsány announced another 10 points plus 50 points and 40 points each month, in which he shared no respect for any of them. Honourable Congressman, I also strongly refuse to hear you say that, and before that, also Mrs Szabó Group Leader, solidarity is not typical of this government. Honourable Congressman, Thank God, the number of people in social exclusion and deprivation in Hungary has reached such a low level, according to the OECD's statements, which you have preferred, which has not been the case for at least a decade, honourable Member. Millions of people have been able to move from insecurity to a more secure, predictable, middle-class lifestyle, and this is due to this government's tax policy and economic policy. So we cannot accept it at all, and we are even arguing to the greatest extent: against your aid-based country, we have been able to create the opportunity for 800,000 people to work. And by that, you completely misinterpreted the electorate's message because you said you were talking here with the authority that in the municipal elections your party might have obtained a majority. Honourable Congressman, With this government approaching the mid-term of the term, the clear majority of voters, well over 50 percent of the local government lists and mayor elections, assured their confidence. Few governing parties can say about themselves, few pro-government alliances can say that they have this kind of support at about half the cycle. You're talking about a non-existent high ground because you're talking about second place as if you were in first place, honourable Member. He completely misinterpreted the electorate's message. With regard to the brakes and counterweights and the rule of law, honourable Member, you have always said so about the municipal law: when you lost in the municipal elections, the municipal electoral law was illegitimate, now that you have managed to regain positions in some places that were largely held in 2006, the municipal electoral law has suddenly become legitimate. And what you said about the Attorney General candidate, we also absolutely reject it. After all, Árpád Göncz was the first President of the Republic to recommend him to be the Attorney General, did you not agree with Árpád Göncz in this decision afterwards? You don't respect his memory, do you, honourable Member? [[13.50]] Three heads of state have nominated Peter Polt. You are attacking him with political arguments because you cannot attack him with any kind of professional argument, since the number of crimes has fallen by less than half since 2010. Whatever EU statement you are looking at, it is clear that the operation of the Hungarian Criminal Authority is much [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] more effective, including much higher in OLAF's cases [[The president's ringing again.]] There's a 45 percent indictment rate, like the EU average is 36 percent. You don't say that, you're just doing a political attack on him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda: Fidesz frauds and lies in order to retain their power. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, For the sake of the notoriously spotless pro-government representatives, let us begin with a quote: "No two kinds of weight in your bag, one heavier and one lighter. In your house, do not keep two scales, a larger one and a smaller one. Let your weight be flawless and accurate, and your measure be flawless and accurate, that you may live long in the land which the Lord your God gives you. For it is an object of hatred in the sight of the Lord your God, who does such a thing, who cheats. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. For the sake of the untrained Pharisees: Genesis chapter 25 on double standards, fraud, and lies. From this double standard and from this lie he got sick of the citizens of Jászberény on 13 October, where, although with a small majority, the opposition's joint candidate Lóránt Budai won, achieving a result of more than 42,6 percent. You didn't like this, even though you did everything you could to keep the city in your clutches, but you didn't. Their plan did not work out, so this election result was destroyed, and there will be a new election on 10 November in this small Hungarian city, and it is not so small if we measure it with domestic standards, because there are still 27 thousand people living there, even though the population is decreasing here, it is decreasing dynamically. Every eighth soul in this town has disappeared over the last decades, but instead you brought Ukrainian migrant workers. Well, from this double standard, these lies were enough for the people there; when you refer to the families, but your mayor or mayor there pushed a three-year-old family from the municipal tenement, saying that he was only able to offer a two-month deposit, but he stabbed the city three months so that he could move into this 85-square-meter apartment with his new partner. Then you refer to transparency, transparency. But what better way to characterize your real activity than those stuffed bags filled with shredded documents that are really circulating on the Internet in connection with Jászberény? Then they talk about freedom of the press and, oddly enough, that this balance has been struck here in Hungary, where we have heard from the Secretary of State here before, the opposition has become a media leader. Well, let's see how it happened. Lóránt Budai wins this election, and the municipal paper doesn't ask him, but speaks to the individual parliamentary representative of the region, János Pócs closing his vulnerable worker in the boiler, and calls the fallen Fidesz mayor; not Lóránt Budai, the winner. Well, that's what you call freedom of the press, fidesz, orange freedom of the press. And we say we don't want any of it, and that's what the Yasberény citizens said, they don't want any of it. You refer to families, you refer to them as trying to create decent living conditions for the workers. Let me refer here to Ildikó Szatmári, a Fidesz representative of the local government who was able to write on Facebook that for young people who had left abroad, the presence was actually just a party, and they live on a pot cookie. He also wrote that Hungary is full of sour cream compared to foreign relations, but you young people do not see it. After these outrageous and unacceptable statements, he apologized, but it is quite possible to pin it on the same logic, which Marcell Zsiga released here, that 47,000 can be lived, then let me refer to the heights of Lajos Kósa, who said at some point on Radio Kossuth, that it is impossible for so many people to flee the country because of the terrible working and wage conditions and their lack of prospects. I would ask you nicely, behind this whole thing, as a control star, but I would rather say that as a kind of proud cassnar there is Viktor Orbán and his spirit. What you said to Arab investors in Saudi Arabia, you say that the Hungarian labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is extremely flexible and it is a shame that you want to attract investors here! This is why many people fled from Jászberény, but never mind, you brought three thousand Ukrainian migrant workers to this Hungarian settlement instead of them. I ask the Jászberényi to take back freedom in the same way as in 1702 when Lipót I took their freedom and gave it to the Order of the German Knights, but in 1745 the Jász got it back. Retrieve it now, November 10th, and say no to my lord, proud little king's politics, to the rule of the little balls. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-11-04-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, if you have already mentioned municipal and municipal electoral matters here, allow me once again to congratulate all elected municipal leaders and municipal representatives and wish them good work. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it strengthens the legitimacy of the elected city leaders and their work, that they will be elected legally. Therefore, I would suggest to you that if the electoral bodies, which have the possibility of judicial review of their decisions, find that an election must be held again, then we politicians here in Parliament should not classify it, but we should wish every candidate good luck and say that the better man wins. 'Cause if we start qualifying... 'Cause if we start judging things, we're on a thin ice, and standing on this thin ice on the ground of democracy, we're not worth being, so I suggest you keep those ratings to yourself. I am very pleased that you applauded the expression "better" because the fact is that if we look at the results of the municipal election, which, by the way, I think was tragic for your party, just as the European Parliament elections and parliamentary elections were last April, then we can see that only candidates who did not take up the Jobbik name did not undertake to win. You've won candidates that you tie to yourself, who didn't start in the colors of Jobbik. [[István Szilárd Németh: They used to tag along with the commies!]] The thing is, the party is so embarrassing, the Jobbik phrase is so uncool, that those who have been elected to run the settlement have failed to take up this legacy and this background that you have given them here in Parliament. From this point of view, I don't know if the Jászberény candidate will be helped by you campaigning here, or if he'll hurt us. And the other, and probably the two things, are connected, and if we have talked a lot about 4 November, then allow me to refer back to 4 November in the voice of great respect and memory. For me, the lesson of 4 November and the lesson of the fifty-six revolution itself, which continues today, is that I was born around the change of regime, that it is really not difficult to tell the difference between truth and lies. Even though there are powerful forces who push the lie from their throats, how good it will be to build socialism, how good it will be for the Hungarians, if the Soviet Union is a midwife to them, the truth and the lie will always be separated, it will always be revealed. If we step back, we'll see who's right and who's wrong. The thing is, you're sitting on that side of the parliamentary horseshoe, you're sitting next to the post-communists, and we're sitting on the anti-communist side. [[Noise and interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: Look around! Look around you.]] But that's how the truth and the lie part. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is, after all, that they are in this party, and this party has a prime minister who fought against the communist regime, who you were supposed to be fighting in 2006. [[14.00]] I read that Jobbik was supposed to be an antithesis of the 2002-2010 governance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you listen to the speeches before the agenda, we have the 2002-2010 governance. You are applauding the leader of the party, who is also the successor party of the MSZMP in a public sense. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Who applauds him?]] And they talk about freedom; and they talk about anti-communism! [[Tibor Bana: Putin!]] And they talk about what needs to be done about freedom of the press. And you don't do anything else, you do what you do, you do it for power, you stand behind them, you stand up to them. It's okay that they're salamied up, it's a communist tactic, but they're still standing behind them. They listened to Ference Gyurcsány here two weeks ago when he gave the matinee-washing speech [[György Szilágyi: I would have liked to have a person accounted for in nine years!]] About the re-evaluation of 2006? What did you do? [[György Szilágyi: In nine years I would have liked to have one person accounted for! The president's ringing the bell.]] They applauded that speech! That's why I'm going to say this again: the message of 56 and the message of 4 November is that the truth and the lie always end up divorcing each other, and you're on the wrong side of history. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, Member of the KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. The title of the Hungarian National Imabreakfast Margora. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-21	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the floor. But first, let's say silence. Respect, prayer, and cheering for the heroes of our 1956 freedom fight. [[A moment's pause.]] Thank you for remembering and praying for them. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now allow me to tell you about the third Hungarian national prayer breakfast, which was held on the three days of October 24-26, 2019. László Teleki, co-chairman and founding minister Zoltán Balog, many accepted our invitation; nearly 200 people from 26 countries came from congressmen, senators, leaders of some countries' national prayer breakfasts, people with influence on the functioning of the world, because they thought that we should work together on the glory of the Lord. So they came from all over the world to feed on the same vine capital, Jesus Christ, and to bear fruit for his glory. Here we had Wes Anderson from Washington, head of the American prayer breakfasts, Chief Advisor; Robert Ilatov from Jerusalem, former member of the knessezet, Prime Minister's Advisor; Rudolf Decker from Germany, CDU-CSU doyenje, former Member, founder of the German parliamentary prayer group and eternal honorary leader; Timo Soini from Finland, former Deputy Prime Minister and former Foreign Minister; Michael Leary from London, Director of Christian Embassy, Leo van Dösburg from Brussels, Director of the European Christian Political Movement; Gudrun Kugler from Vienna, Member of Parliament, Patron of the Families, Head of Prayer Breakfast; Mr Kyoichi Tanaka, delegate of the Japanese Emperor, Head of the National Prayer in Japan. But, ladies and gentlemen, despite all these high-ranking guests, our most important guest was the King of the World. Ladies and Gentlemen, The central theme of the third Hungarian national prayer breakfast was the protection of the created world, the protection of humanity and thus the family. Thus, we have undertaken no less than to draw the world's attention through the soul to the preservation of God's work. We have shown that greed, greed, and lovelessness destroy the created world, destroy human relationships, and destroy families. We have also pointed out that the growing insolence of the modern technical world is not only about the impersonality of the individual, but also about the questioning of the basis of existence. In the world, the economy and politics are becoming less and less in the service of life and less in the service of the basic cell of society, the family. The culture of death is divinity, not the common good, not the transgenerational truth, but instead of reality, only the false and manipulated virtual reality. Mankind's main problem is that he's moved away from God. Our greatest problems are not physical, but spiritual, or spiritual, and spiritual. The whole creation suffers because humans do not reflect God's image. What do we see in the other man, even here, in the Lower House Chamber? Just money and power? Or is it just the pursuit of these things? Or do we see his other god-face? Ladies and Gentlemen, Hate is a bad counselor. We must live with the freedom and talent we receive and not abuse it. We must recognize the limitations of our human power, be more humble, so that we can leave a united and healthy planet to our children and grandchildren. Remember, mankind is destined for more than what we see around us today. Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, allow me to share the closing prayer of the event with you. Lord, you have confronted us with the destruction of nature. You also confronted me about how human and human relationships and families are dying, and you say there's hardly any lower. But you also say it's never too late, because getting our lost assets back is not impossible, we just have to find your way back. Seek God, and your heart will live again. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Many in Hungary, too, who follow Parliament's work, may well ask why they do not see more cases in which every elected Member can agree. And this is not only a legitimate electoral demand raised in Hungary, but in many countries of the world. We need these values that are expected of people in almost all countries that are beyond political divisions, which can unite people, even if they are different party positions, and in their everyday lives the debate is a natural part of life. Christianity can be such a value for all of us, which can connect anyone, no matter how partylike. The prayer breakfasts may be less known in Hungary, but they go back to a very long story. This initiative started from America, as US President Eisenhower also saw that the relationship between Republicans and Democrats had been greatly corrupted, and that something had to be sought that could form a bridge between the two opposing political poles, and then, together with Douglas Coe, the founder of prayer breakfasts, they created congressional prayer breakfasts that have been in operation since then. In fact, they reached an international level, and that's when the National Prayer Breakfast came into being. There was a national prayer breakfast in 1953 for the first time. It is held in the United States on the first Thursday of February, and since then all American presidents have been involved. This joint Christian prayer was attended by President Trump, but his predecessor was Obama, George Bush, younger Bush, Bill Clinton, and all the other presidents attended these prayer breakfasts. They now take place in the presence of thousands of guests in the United States, over 65 years, thousands of people have come to these places, and although they come from different countries, they are different parties, they may represent opposite parties in their own countries, but here, in prayer breakfast, they pray together, they pray together for peace, helping the poor, eliminating social inequalities, and we can be proud that Hungarian politicians are now invited to these American prayer breakfasts. Just as a Republican and a Democrat politician in America co-chaired the prayer breakfast in Hungary: Imre Vejkey was a pro-government representative and László Teleki was the opposition representative who started this prayer breakfast as co-chair, Zoltán Balog was a former minister, and the parliamentary representative took care of it as a founder and carried forward the first Hungarian national prayer breakfast. Last year, nearly 200 domestic and foreign guests from 16 countries participated in this event, and the rare diplomatic occasion also took place thanks to President Vejkey's intervention that the president of the U.S. Congress greeted the prayer breakfast in a special letter. [[14.10]] This rarely takes place, let's say, when President Carter sent such a toast in connection with the return of St. Crown 78 to Hungary. Last year, former Polish Prime Minister Beata Szydło was here, Mr Brownback was an extraordinary presidential proxy and Ambassador, and Pete Marocco was also Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United States. The Hungarian National Prayer Breakfast has been in operation for six years, and as I mentioned, this was the third national prayer breakfast. All this draws attention here and in other countries to the fact that faith cannot be just a private matter. Christianity cannot be forced outside the bastions of public life, law and politics. For 40 years, we have lived in a time when not only did they want to push faith outside the walls of law, but also a difficult legacy of this period, that it is difficult to talk about faith in our community spaces, whether in political or public fields. But this prayer breakfast in America and in all countries of the world draws attention to the fact that there is indeed a place within the world of politics for the confession and expression of Christian faith; not necessarily during parliamentary debates, on occasions when we are looking for a common point between Members and Members, this can happen. This has been the case since 1981 in Austria, organized by Gebetsfrühstück, so there is the National Prayer Breakfasten in Canada every year, so in Britain is the National Parliamentary Prayer Breakfasten, where 700 Members of Parliament have visited, and in many other countries, not only European but also African. I believe that it was an uplifting and unique experience for many people when hundreds of people from dozens of countries in Parliament's Upper House meeting room last year prayed in their own language for the Lord's prayer and thus tried to do something for a happier and more peaceful world. Thank you to all the organizers, thank you to all the participants for taking this seriously, taking it seriously, and adding something for a better world. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Németh, Fidesz Group, President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2019-11-04-25	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, Vladimir Putin was indeed a Russian head of state in Budapest. Allow me to make a few comments on this. I am convinced that Hungary is interested in improving cooperation between the West and Russia. If the western and eastern half of Europe, if relations between NATO and Russia are better, Hungary will also win. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The aim of Hungarian politics is to make every great power interested in the success of our country, but especially those that have a decisive influence on its life from a regional point of view. This includes Hungarian-Russian cooperation, because Hungary is and remains a member of NATO and the European Union with all its consequences (Gergely Arató intervenes). This does not preclude political cooperation with Russia on certain issues. The priority areas for this are global issues such as the Middle East, the protection of Christian communities around the world or migration, because both countries know the dangers inherent in it. There is political cooperation between Hungary and Russia on the stability of the Middle East. If the Middle East region destabilizes, there will be an increasing number of migrants coming to Europe, so Hungary is interested in providing military and political stability in the Middle East, Syria and Iraq as soon as possible. The cooperation also extends to Kurds living in Iraq, because Hungary supports the Kurdish government in Serbia with military training, soldiers and financial support. We also have an obligation to promote Christian communities in distress within the framework of the Hungarian Helps. Therefore, together with our partners, including Russia, we are restoring church buildings and building plants that can contribute to the feeding of the population, as well as building schools and hospitals in Hungary, restoring villages to which refugees can return. The Turkish position is particularly important to us from the point of view of migration, as Turkey is a key factor in the Middle East. President Erdoğan, who is actually visiting Hungary today, announced that if the world does not accept the burden, if the European Union does not give money, then these people will have to be released. The migrants can go either to Syria or to Europe. In order to move back to Syria, or return home, it is necessary to stabilise the areas there militaryly. The Turks want to create a new security zone. However, if the Turks open the door to Europe, 100,000 migrants will arrive again in Greece, the Balkans, and from there either the Hungarian or the Croatian border. Our primary Hungarian interest is that the Syrian stabilisation succeeds. The negotiations and agreements of the past days in Turkish, American, Russian, Kurdish and Syrian terms are very encouraging. It is also a recent development, ladies and gentlemen, that last week's quota litigation between Brussels and Hungary has reached its next stop with the presentation of the Advocate General's Opinion. It is clear that the outgoing Brussels Commission still insists on the deployment of migrants to Hungary. We would like to make it clear that we are not asking for either the 2015 or the future migrant quotas. On several occasions, the Hungarian people have expressed that they do not want to be introduced. We are asking the government not to put any pressure on the migrant quota; we do not ask for either the one-off, the permanent, the old, or the migrant quota that is now forming. We find it amazing and discriminatory that the Brussels Commission, which has spent its last weeks, is still campaigning against our country four years ago because of the failure to implement a decision which was completely wrongfully adopted and which has expired long ago, and that it has not been implemented by a number of countries other than our country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister of State Levente Magyar, Deputy Minister, answers. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the topics that have been mentioned. There is no doubt that important diplomatic events have taken place in Hungary in the last few days, and will take place in the following days. The Russian President, with whom our country has been working on a pragmatic, interest-based cooperation, has been here for years. Let us not forget that Vladimir Putin has been leading Russia for 20 years now, and we have managed to establish a partnership that is now having very tangible advantages for Hungary, as well as the fact that our gas reservoirs are charged, such as that our Paks investment, which is so important for energy security and energy diversification in Hungary, is very good, and we are also conducting advanced negotiations with Russia on the South Stream specifically so that Hungarian energy supply routes can reach our country from more directions. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Our cooperation with Russia is not only an interest-based one; it now has a value dimension, because Christians in the Middle East... are a favourite sarcastic topic of the Balliberal side. We have established cooperation with Russia in recent months that can be exemplary for all countries in the world, as it has demonstrated that there are powers in the world that are still interested in this topic and are not afraid to name the problem: the systematic genocidium against Christians that is taking place in the Middle East [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] "that, apart from the Russians, triggered the interest and activity of a small number of great powers. We can cooperate effectively with Russia in this area, after Hungary has rebuilt villages and cities from billions of forints in recent years, creating infrastructure and basic supply infrastructure in the Middle East that has allowed displaced Christians to be resettled. [[14.20]] Dear House, This is where the debate on Kurdish affairs has come to light in the last few days. With some figures, I would like to confirm what Hungary has done for the Kurds in recent years. You must know that Hungary is placing a serious military contingent next to Erbíl. The maximum number of this quota was close to 200, with more than 160 soldiers currently serving in Kurdistan, Iraq. There are only a few countries in the world, some of the great powers in the world that take on a greater military role in the security of the Kurds. The United Kingdom, Italy and Canada are present in the Middle East with a military contingent of the same magnitude as Hungary, and only the Germans and Americans significantly exceed the military engagement that Hungary is doing for Kurdish security. Remember that Kurdish warriors are trained and secured in a region that has been unstable in recent years. France's contribution does not reach the Hungarian contribution, Romania is present with one person, Belgium with 24 people, Norway with 70 people, and I could say that Hungary's participation in nearly 200 is quite high. As far as Turkey is concerned, Turkey is another partner in Russia that has a direct impact on our region. The third power with such a direct effect in the region is Germany, the foreign minister of which is currently in Hungary. Therefore, we can say that our policy is successful in finding the common points at which Hungarian interests can be built, through continuous reconciliation of interests with these three powers. I would like to highlight Turkey not only in relation to the current situation in the Middle East, as a partner that we need to keep an eye on. If you follow the Turkish developments and look out for a little in our region, you will see that there are few powers in our region, such as Turkey, which is extremely active in the Balkans and has taken very important positions with economic support, which is why we have to pay attention to them. As far as the Middle East war events are concerned, this House, the European Union has been in a position in recent years to provide itself to the Turks, to give itself and its own security into the hands of the Turks, and we are now faced with the choice that, depending on our relationship with Turkey, this so-called migrant tap can be opened by the Turks at any time. This is what we want to avoid, which is why we support it, in line with the Germans, the German Minister for Defence, for example. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a policy aimed at repatriating four million refugees in Turkey. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-11-04-29	Dear Parliament, Today, Lajos Rig, Jobbik; László Hajdu, DK; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Tuesday, the following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda: Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; László Varju, DK; Péter Ungár, LMP; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik. On Wednesday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik applied for a speech after the agenda.
u2019-11-04-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a motion to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group suggested that on Tuesday's meeting, the T/7845 on irrigation farming. T/7841 on the publication of new border documents of the Hungarian-Slovenian state border in 2018. The agenda should be followed by a general debate on the legislative proposal No 1. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the amendment adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, H/7888 on the establishment of an ad hoc committee for the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. The decision to make a proposal for a decision. I would like to inform you that the ad hoc committee which appointed the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which had been set up by the National Assembly, has not been able to successfully designate the members of the Media Council, so that 20/2019. On the basis of point 10 of the parliamentary decision, CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication ceased to exist. Law 124. In accordance with Article 4 of the Treaty, it is necessary to set up a new nominating committee. As no amendments to the proposal for a new nominating committee have been tabled, we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision in the course of the decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament decides on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/7888. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 170 unanimous votes in favour. I would like to draw the heads of the factions' attention to the fact that, as the House Committee said at its meeting last week, you have the opportunity today to make a personal proposal for officials and members of the ad hoc committee by 19:00. The decision on the personal proposal will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, A decision on a personal proposal will not take place today. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:27 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2019-11-04-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary, my question will not be unknown to you, because I have asked you this once, but we did not get a full answer then, so it is still time to talk about hospital debt and the future of hospitals. In addition to the debate, one of the biggest health failures of the last decade has failed to halt the monthly debt of hospitals. Years ago, hospital debts increased by an average of HUF 2-3 billion per month, by 2019 we reached the point that the debt of the institutions has already increased by HUF 5-6 billion per month. Among those who belong at the end of the summer, but we can now say that there is a record-size, almost record-sized debt among the early autumn members of the Hetényi Géza Hospital in Szolnok County, which owes more than two billion HUF the annual budget of a small town, settlement. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, stated in a government briefing that is not a very good future for hospitals, and that according to the Minister, this is the last year when the government subsequently pays off the accumulated debt of hospitals. So in 2020, if there is a debt, if not, the government will not pay the debts of institutions dancing on the brink of bankruptcy. Let's see why a hospital debt can pile up. There may be a reason why interventions are low-costed by the state, i.e. hospitals do not receive as much money from the state for an operation, for an intervention as it actually costs. But there is also the pressure of technology, for example, because we all know that the devices used in hospitals are becoming more expensive and need to be ensured at an ever higher level. Overall, hospitals accumulate debt of HUF 50-60 billion annually mainly to suppliers, and those who serve them can only hope that hospitals will receive one-off aid of HUF 40-50 billion at the end of the year, as they have done in recent years, and that they will be able to alleviate their debts. [[14.30]] Thus, we can see that the accumulation of hospital debts will actually have two results or could have two results. One: if the government does not settle them, the quality of care is greatly reduced. Patients see the damage, especially because they are forced to work with so-called DIY methods by doctors, suppliers, hospitals and certain departments. In fact, one of the consequences could be that hospitals and departments will close if hospitals cannot reduce their debt. One way or another, Mr Secretary of State, both of them may result in neither patients nor health workers being safe, and the quality of domestic care will deteriorate. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, I look forward to your response: will you let hospitals go bankrupt in 2020 due to increasing debts to the government, or will you still settle the debts? What does the government do to save hospitals on the brink of bankruptcy? Foge and perhaps this is the most important issue of hospital classes or hospitals shutting down by the government in 2020? Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You and your left-wing allies have been somewhat accustomed to closing hospitals, since your name is linked to the closure of the Children's Hospital in Svábhegy, OPNI, Szabolcs Utcai Hospital and Schöpf-Merei Hospital, but a new genre has been launched in recent days, honourable Member, when hospital building is already opposed. In the election campaign, you said that you are advertising a stadium stop, compared to your former colleague, Imre László, and the mayor of NewBuda, who has just been elected, wants to put a hospital stop on NewBuda, the XI. in the district. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not what he said!]] He said there was no need for a new greenfielder, XXI. Building a hospital built on and fully adapted to the needs of the century [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not what he said! Gergely Harvesto: That's not what he said! You're lying!]] Neither for the people of South Buda nor for the people of the agglomeration, but for the people of the agglomeration, he has another idea: he wants this money to migrate to his former workplace. But it's new, greenfielded, XXI. 20th century super-hospital construction work [[Zsolt Gréczy: You've had ten years, Bence! Why didn't you build it?]] He doesn't support you as mayor. I think we should be wondering what Jobbik's position is. This is Szabó Timea, a representative of the Dialogue, confirming this, so obviously from now on the position of the Dialogue and Christmas Gergely, as the faction leader of his party supported this proposal loudly and loudly so as not to build a new center in South Buda. The yells in DK confirm this, as Mayor Imre László is also from DK. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Comprehension!]] We are curious, honourable Member, what is Jobbik's position, and you would announce a hospital building stop in South Buda, and you would say that you would prevent a whole new hospital from being built in South Buda. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Ten years, Bence! You didn't do anything! The president's ringing the bell.]] Whereas, by the way, Péter Gajda, supported by you, The mayor of the district said that he wanted a stadium built, and if the renovation, renewal and construction of the Honvéd stadium were to take place, he would be pleased. It is therefore as if they have said the opposite since the elections, as before, honourable Member. What we have been able to do in the past period for the benefit of hospitals, you know, in the period when you announced that you were delivering Hungarian doctors abroad in bulk: well, we managed to renovate 91 hospitals, modernize 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations. In addition, we have built 23 completely new clinics, and 34 new rescue stations have been created. This means that most of the rescue stations in Hungary are now new or renovated rescue stations. We would also like to renovate 24 co-hospitals and 32 specialized clinics in the program, unless you are trying to prevent this in the coming months. Honourable Congressman, If you look at what happened with regard to health resources, you can see that the difference between the last spending on health in 2010 submitted by your ally and the next year's budget not supported by you is HUF 770 billion plus the difference. Although you like to shout that Hungary spends less on health care, look at the budget laws, these figures are quite clear: you will find a surplus of HUF 770 billion in the budget adopted for next year than in the budget adopted for 2010. And if you look at the lines of next year's budget, you will find a line of $40 billion aimed at increasing the efficiency of the supply system and improving the sustainability of the good health system. So we will do everything we can to ensure that both the wage increases already decided and the wage increases in progress are covered in a 72-percent, four-year wage increase period for nurses. The HUF 770 billion surplus is guaranteed in the next year's budget compared to 2010. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-34	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-35	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Among other things, I do not accept your answer because you did not say categorically what everyone wanted to hear, that this government will not close classes and hospitals. He didn't say that because he probably will, he didn't want to lie, he didn't want to look the Hungarians in the eye with another lie. Because you're going to plan it, and you're going to work on it one way or another. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Will there be a hospital stop or not?]] But if hospitals are not relieved of debt [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Hospital stop?]] then lock me up in classes or hospitals. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Will there be a hospital stop in NewBuda?]] Dear Secretary of State, The other is how you stand on hospital debt. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: NewBuda Hospital Stop?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: NewBuda Hospital Stop?]] You've come to this race with the tactics of taking, limp, here's a bump. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: NewBuda Hospital Stop?) You gave the hospitals electric cars as a gift, which turned out to be a monthly fee. That's your attitude towards hospital debt, so whoever owes you is gonna pay you more, because it's gonna be a good business. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] And what can be said about the super hospital is that it has to be a super hospital, not a hospital, many hospitals have to help. [[Zsolt Gréczy: They've had ten years to do it!]] The treatment in Budapest should have been fixed ten years ago, what took you so long, Mr. Secretary? [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-11-04-36	Dear Parliament, You didn't say it, Congressman. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Yes! György Szilágyi: He started with it!]] But I sensed from his words that he wouldn't accept the answer. So I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 122 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Innovation and Technology:. When will rail transport be accurate, clean and predictable in Hungary? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Last week, I asked an oral question, where the Secretary of State replied that he pointed back to the period before 2010 and did not mention how you have harmed the MÁV over the last nine years, how you have harmed the passengers. Let me share last week's experience with you and my experience this morning. I went home last week, what did you have to face? There was a break on the Budapest-Szolnok-Nyíregyháza line. Trains were over a hundred minutes late. We went to the train station this morning, first day after the fall break for the kids, it's the beginning of the month, the whole ticket sales system fell in early in the morning, the passengers, the students couldn't buy tickets or tickets. We started this week around 7:00 a.m. Then one got on the train to Budapest, and what did he have to face again? It's a line breaker. Instead of 9:30, Mr. Secretary, we managed to arrive at half past twelve. At seven o'clock, you go to work and you fail to reach Budapest at 11 o'clock. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I am not just saying this, Mr. Secretary of State, because it is a phenomenon today; this has been happening several times a week for months and years. Dear Secretary of State, I would like you to point out in your answer not to what happened before 2010 but to tell us what you said last week, when you will be able to travel on this public transport device in such a predictable way, when you do not find that you can get on dirty, almost unrated cars. I will also tell you about how you clean up with the railway companies today. And he doesn't leave for work or school in the morning to meet sobbing students in the morning... [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Yeah, with sobbing students, because they don't know which train to take to class at all... [[Crying from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't yell, Congressmen, because you don't even know what I'm talking about, because you haven't been on a train in a long time. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr State Secretary, I would like to ask you, as I have described in the interpellation, when it will occur in Hungary because of the shortage of staff, you know it, because on my written question you have answered several times that there is a shortage of more than a thousand people in the railway companies, and by the end of this year nearly five thousand railway workers are planning to retire, that the kind of shortage you refuse to talk about will end in tragedy. [[14.40]] And who will be responsible if there is a tragedy in Hungary that you will be the cause of because you have been refusing to fix those problems for years. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which today characterizes the MÁV? Thank you very much and I look forward to your reply, Mr Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-38	Dear Parliament, On behalf of Prime Minister János Fónagy State Secretary János, who is responsible for managing the national assets of Bartfai-Mager, who is competent and responsible for the subject, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for monitoring the work of the MÁV. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You mentioned a bad example. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It doesn't happen all the time.]] Allow me to tell you that 3900 trains leave every day and 32 500 buses. You've given me a bad example, and I can give you tens of thousands of better examples. I also agree with you that there is no second-hand carpet that can't be cleaned clean. [[Gergely Arató: Come to the Lajosmizsei line at any time!]] Unfortunately, I can no longer yell at you, but I am no longer qualified to do so, but I will try to answer the Member's question. The number of upholstery cleaning done is 25 percent more than before, I say to your comments, and this year it's almost twice as much as it was three years ago. So the fact that we're moving forward in this is indisputable, the internal cleanliness of the vehicles has improved. By the way, the general question of how the situation will improve: in the coming years, until 2024 we will spend HUF 1700 billion on the MÁV; between 2014 and 2016 we acquired 63 new Flirt trains; as a result of the production of IC + wagons, 20 new IC cars were set up; from the beginning of 2020 there will be 11 high capacity trains with 600 seats. The travelling audience, along with the crying children, does not share your tragic view. From 2015 until today, the number of rail passengers has increased by 4 million, unlike the previous decades, when it has been steadily decreasing. In recent years the trend has changed and the number of passengers on the train is increasing. Based on the data at the end of last year, the Budapest-Tatabánya route was chosen by 24 percent more people. The increase was 22-22 percent higher on trains in Esztergom and Székesfehérvár. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Over the last three years, more than 30 percent, to be quite specific, there has been a 35 percent wage increase in the MÁV. By the way, the fluctuations are significantly smaller than in other sectors of the economy, so please don't panic by not having a workforce. Problems in numbers, like everywhere in the European economy [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Cars are dirty, smelly!]] Here they are, but the railway can provide the necessary number for safe transport; this was yesterday, so it was today, and so it will be tomorrow. I'm asking you to choose the railroad, take the train. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-40	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and ask the Member to accept the State Secretary's reply. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-41	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Well, Mr. Secretary, if everyone was on the train as much as I was, they wouldn't say I was panicking. By the way, I'll invite Mr. Secretary, I'll go home tomorrow, I'll take the train, come with me, come with me. By the way, it would have been great if you'd been on the train. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause they mentioned politicians this morning when we were standing at every station for ten minutes. [[Noise. The president's ringing again.]] Mr. Secretary. I can't stop yelling at the Fidesz people either. Let me tell you how they clean the intercity train today. The intercity comes into the West Railway Station, four cleaners get up: one picks up the trash, the other goes down the lane, the third goes into the bathroom, because there's a bathroom in the front and back, you know, Mr. Secretary, and in the dirty water that hasn't been emptied for a week, he puts his little junk in it, cleans the bathroom, then comes into the cup and wipes the table with the same rag. Now, Mr. Secretary of State, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It's been cleaning on trains for years.
u2019-11-04-42	Congresswoman! Your time is up, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-04-43	You can't accept what's going on with the railway companies today. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-44	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 121 votes in favour, 40 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why are election frauds also given the green light in the EP election? It's an address. Mr President, this interpellation was submitted on 27 March, and I will inform the Honourable Parliament. I'm going to ask you to be honest with me, Congressman. Honourable Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató has the floor.
u2019-11-04-45	Dear House, Mr President, Indeed, the title is somewhat outdated, but the problem has not been solved since then, which is why this interpellation is more current than at the time of submission, because clearly the detection of electoral fraud has not been included in the first thousand tasks since then. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Let's do it again.]] between the police's duties. In connection with the election fraud in April last year 249 investigations were ordered, more than half of which, 151 investigations are still ongoing, we have not been informed that any of them have been closed during the summer, and we still do not know how many fraudulent mandates our Fidesz fellow Members are sitting in there, how many fraudulent mandates have provided you with the two-thirds majority. [[Noise, uproar in the ranks of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] European rules provide that every citizen can have only one vote and that it is the responsibility of the Member States to check it. However, today there is no obstacle to a Hungarian-Romanian double citizen voting twice, once in Romania and once in Hungary, of course, to the EU elections. The thing is, Mr. Secretary of State, it would be your duty to prevent such fraud, but nothing has been done to prevent it. Just as nothing has been done to prevent this widespread electoral fraud, and this has also been the case for municipal elections, the news is constantly showing that citizens register with fictitious addresses primarily on the Ukrainian border, and then with these fictitious addresses they participate in the votes, they can decide who should represent the people who live there, whether in the Parliament or in the European Parliament or in local governments. And you're not doing anything. Remember, there has been even conflict in municipal elections, and I'm sure there will be more and more conflicts. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Literacy!]] On this basis, I would like to ask Mr State Secretary why the investigations into election fraud in 2018 have still not been completed. Is there a political order behind this slowness? Why does the government fail to comply with the EU's duty to prevent double citizens across borders from voting twice? Why don't you check if anyone who has a cross-border address and a Hungarian address is voting in both places? Why is it not checked that a person living in an EU country has not said in another Member State that he does not live in the territory of such a country and can therefore vote in the Hungarian election in a letter? Is there any intergovernmental cooperation in progress with the neighbouring EU Member States to check that double citizens across borders do not vote twice? Why have tens of thousands of Ukrainians been idly watching for years that obviously fictitiously register for Hungarian addresses? Why are the organisers of Ukrainian pensioners' migration and citizenship and electoral fraud not still underway? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And finally, why do they give the green light to election fraud in EP elections and other elections? Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-11-04-46	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Károly Kontra will respond to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As regards the investigation of election fraud in 2018, I have good news for you, as you were also able to witness the Parliament's information and decision on the case of László Varju, your fellow Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.50]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that your interpellation, as Mr President said, was submitted on 27 March 2019, but it was not important for the Democratic Coalition to say that it should be taken into account. Today is November 4th, in the meantime the election took place, the purity of which you were worried about in March [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Now is the time!]] And we're past the municipal vote. Hungary is a democratic rule of law where no one is above the law [[Zsolt Gréczy: Except in the Czeglédy case.]] the laws apply to all of us. In all cases, the police, under their general investigative authority, will carry out criminal proceedings in accordance with the law, carry out all legal proceedings. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This building is massive, but be careful!]] I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that since 1990 the Hungarian Parliament has been unbroken with the practice that the responder does not comment on the details of the case in the ongoing criminal proceedings. We also maintain this practice in order to avoid prejudicing and to avoid any unsubstantiated opinions. Honourable Congressman, I strongly refuse that Fidesz-KDNP used illegal instruments in any election. [[Defiance in DK's ranks. György Szilágyi: Long live the frozen servers!]] The elections were legal and free of influence in accordance with the basic laws. Government tasks related to the technical implementation of the elections were carried out in a professional and transparent manner. This was confirmed by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in its report. Honourable Congressman, The National Election Office and the National Election Committee, as independent bodies under the law, are responsible for preparing and conducting the elections. There are 10 285 electoral districts in Hungary, and each party is entitled to delegate its representatives to the electoral committees. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you for your opportunity!]] The independent body evaluating electoral complaints and objections is the National Election Committee in Hungary. Each representative of the nominating organisations setting up the national list may be a member of the National Election Committee, and the delegation of the Democratic Coalition could also participate in the work of the Committee. Honourable Congressman, The government and the Ministry of Interior, unlike your government, the Gyurcsány Kort, do not exert pressure on the police's work, on the investigative activities. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: István Tiborcz, Lőrinc Mészáros!]] Congresswoman, I'd be honored if you'd listen to me. The Hungarian police act against everyone who violates the law, regardless of their racial, ethnic or religious affiliation or party affiliation. In the performance of his duties, he shall act without party influence. I ask you, honourable Member, to respect that. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-48	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-49	Dear Secretary of State, You, also as a representative of Fidesz, as you said here, forget that this interpellation could not be said because, in order to circumvent parliamentary control, Parliament did not meet before the European Parliament or the municipal elections. We've always protested against this. On the other hand, I have to tell you that this is not about certain cases, I am not asking you about certain cases, I am asking you about systemic abuse, systemic abuse of signatures, systemic abuse of registration. Election committees have often filed a complaint in these cases, which the police will then lay with the prosecution's accomplice. That's what I'm talking about. There's a systemic problem. I didn't ask for your position on certain matters. Finally, the fact that you bring here conceptual matters, such as the Varju case, on 4 November, is typical of your moral standards. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I can't accept the answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-04-50	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 119 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, submitted an interpellation to the finance minister: - When will the Paks 2 investment contract be terminated? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, János Süli, Minister for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who is competent and competent according to the subject, responds to the interpellation. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, We've been warning the government for years that the Paks II. investment is unnecessary, expensive, dangerous and an extremely bad business. We have now come to the point that the government has admitted that there is a serious delay in the project. With the dismissal of the former Secretary of State, the search for those responsible for politics has also begun. Now experts will make one of the new blocks available by 2030. We are now at the point that there is a bad contract, a bad concept, which is accompanied by a very serious security risk arising from foreign influence efforts, while the professional players and the general public themselves refuse to expand in Paks, but the government still stands by it. Minister of Finance Mihály Varga visited Moscow on 21 February this year and negotiated. He did not hurry to inform the Parliament or the public about these negotiations. I have asked a number of questions about these issues, addressed to several actors in the government, but I have not received any meaningful answers. After that, it was you, Minister, who told me that you had agreed to amend the Paks Giga loan. However, in a very interesting way, the Minister of Finance argued in a Commission debate that the Paks loan contract had not been amended, and that it was not, in any case. The Ministry of Finance has only been able to respond to my request for data of general interest concerning the modification of the financial engineering of the Paks investment that they do not qualify as data controllers. In this case, too, I had to sue the Ministry to let the Hungarian people know what they were discussing over their heads again. Their argument during the trial tells us a lot about the attitude of the government. The desperate attempt to conceal the information, which is based on logic, has written a very specific sheet, starting from the point of view that the Ministry of Finance is not, first of all, a controller, continuing that the requested data, i.e. the agreement to amend the credit, does not exist, through the fact that you, Minister, have already said the data to my public parliamentary question here in Parliament, so that they are not, by the way, public data for ten years, and therefore cannot be published. But the court has finally decided that the public interest is first, they have to release these data. The fact that the Ministry of Finance's legal representative was unable to state exactly when they agreed to amend the loan agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. There are many reasons why Paks II is not allowed. Project implementation: a dangerous, loss-making, expensive, ecological and financial disaster for Hungary and Hungarian people. But even if we remain in an argument about how serious you are about this case, it is clear that this project should not be entrusted to your government in itself, which threatens the billions of Hungarians. My question, Minister, is that Paks II will finally resign. A pact?
u2019-11-04-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-11-04-53	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm glad to ask. I can confirm that we will not terminate the contract. This contract is not only good for us, on your proposal, the Brussels Commission has examined the contractual arrangement for three years, has stopped the work for 16 months, and at the end of each case there is no return, no illegal state aid, safe, feasible, Hungary needs this investment from the point of view of independent energy supply, it has given Hungary the truth on each issue. So these are the facts that we have to build. Hungary's electricity supply is constantly being imported by 32 percent. We can't afford this exposure. Today, there is still an opportunity to buy free electricity on the international market, but within years this trend may reverse and the entire European power plant park will be more than 40-50 years old. The other question is, what was the Treasury Department talking about? You're right, I confirmed it. In February, the finance ministers agreed in Moscow on how to amend the contract. What is the reason why it needs to be modified? It is also because the intervention of the Brussels Commission has led to a delay of 22 months. This Treaty amendment has been carried over to the Brussels Commission and deadlines have been extended by 22 months. [[15.00]] The Brussels Commission has also stated that the new deadlines will apply if the deadline for the financial financing contract is amended to this technical contract. By the way, 26 is the first date when we should make a repayment to the Russian party, so we have the opportunity, in fact, to make this treaty amendment until 26. The contract, the financial contract, was approved by Parliament by law, so it could not be amended without it. You would know if this amendment had been made, because we would have brought it here. So there's a negotiation going on, and we can do it for years. But we would like to align technical performance with the terms of financial payments as soon as possible. That's what I'm talking about. There's no confidentiality here, there's no ambiguous information. What I said was that the negotiations started, as we had approved the 22-month amendment by the Brussels Commission by the end of 2017. That's why we want to associate you. By the way, Paks can be trusted with his last sentences that it's not safe. This is about the world's most modern blocks, they're third generation, and it's technically stipulated that it can't have any off-site effects in any malfunction situation. It will pay off, as I said, economical, and, even on the basis of the Brussels Commission's findings, it will generate 7,35 percent profit over the entire operational period. In comparison, if we do not build it, there is no climate protection objective achieved. Otherwise, there are 12 million tons of CO2 emissions from transport, and Paks saves 17 million tons of CO2. Compared to this, Hungarian forests are able to absorb 6 million tons of carbon dioxide. So in terms of climate protection objectives, I'm also saying that a better investment than building Paks is not. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-54	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-55	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot accept Minister's reply. It is quite interesting that you refer to the Commission in Brussels, as you said. Clearly, some Western companies would get their share of this business. I think that this is not the standard; it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Mr. Minister, this is also your job; it is not Western interests, it is not Eastern interests, it is the interests of the Hungarian people. That would be the government's job, just as it does not excuse you from being responsible, no matter what the European Commission says. In terms of climate protection, what's listed here, it's all cosmetic. You know perfectly well that even data relating to carbon neutrality can be cosmetized, but this does not solve the problem. We are talking about an ecological and financial tragedy. In addition, there is such a slippage in the project that, not only do you want to open the first block by 2030, but you should have set the entire Hungarian economy on renewables long ago. If they do not, they will endanger the future of Hungarian people and Hungary's future. We'll stand by it...
u2019-11-04-56	I'm waiting for your answer, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-04-57	...to cancel the contract.
u2019-11-04-58	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Minister's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 120 votes to 21, with 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: why does the Fidesz government not support the development of the capital instead of Zsolt Semjén's hobby? It's an address. In reply to the interpellation, the Prime Minister commissioned the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás János Schanda, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the year, the scandal broke out, when it turned out that a few minutes ago the government was spending 50 billion forints on Zsolt Semjén's hobby, a hunting exhibition. 50 billion for a hunting exhibition, which isn't officially a world show, but it's not even a special world show, it's a simple hunting jamboree. Given the respect of professional hunters, I must say that a large majority of Hungarians despise the immoral and unscrupulous, corrupt hobby hunters of Semyen. We despise people who shoot pets from helicopters. We despise corrupt figures who accept millions of gifts from all kinds of entrepreneurs, as Zsolt Semjén or Viktor Orbán did. The Fidesz government supports the mass murderers of animals by tens of billions, while they don't sacrifice a penny for animal protection. The Fidesz government does not provide money for useful developments in Budapest, but instead makes determined investments against the will of the Budapesters, as does this 50 billion-dollar Semjén hunting exhibition. 50,000 million forints are dedicated to a hunting jamboree in Budapest, the key of which was handed over by the Fidesz mayor to Gergely Christmas, the winning opposition candidate, with a debt of HUF 150,000. What could be done in Budapest with HUF 50 billion? Every district office could be equipped with CT and MR scanner machines out of 50 billion forints. From HUF 50 billion, the capital's social housing could be tripled. Every child in Budapest could be fed free of charge from HUF 50 billion for two years. Half a million out of 50 billion forints isn't ten thousand, half a million! wood could be planted or three big parks the size of the City Park could be created. If the government were to look at the interests of the people, in particular the interests of the people of Budapest, it would provide public money for such purposes, which would make the capital healthier, greener and more solidarityful. But Fidesz-KDNP spends public money on the hobbies of its leaders in Budapest; stadiums for Orbán, hunting parties for Semjén. Mr. Secretary. On 13 October, people gave an opinion on Fidesz Budapest's policy. Fidesz failed in Budapest. In light of this, I ask what will be the final total cost of the Semjén hunting party, what will be the source of the ten billion for the event, i.e. what capital investments will be left to make money for the private event of hobby hunters, and when will they finally give up their crazy onion plans, which only serve the fun of the Fidesz elite instead of meeting people's real needs. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-04-60	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tamás Schanda responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, we don't want to deal with the style of your interpellation, the abnormal political style you represent. Let's look at the facts. Fidesz-KDNP is Hungary's strongest party alliance, and it cannot change that you and your friends continue their so-called politics in arrogant style, constantly crossing social and moral standards. So, honourable Member, let's look at the facts. You are either led or you wish to lead others, and none of them will be glorified. But by distorting the facts, making statements far from reality in order to satisfy its own political ambitions, that is to say, the deception of voters. Because, Your Honour, you are in complete misunderstanding. He's throwing billions at us, even though he doesn't know what kind of action the government is supporting in the capital. We trust that your personal advice will not help Gergely Christmas's decisions, because then the capital is in a lot of trouble. The 50 billion forints you keep repeating here are designed to renovate Hungexpo. The renovated area will first host the Eucharistic World Congress, which can't tell you much, I understand. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] In addition to the World Hunting and Natural Exhibition, it will serve as a venue for hundreds of other events in the future, as it has done in the past. The development of Hungexpo is therefore justified. It was our goal together with the former city leadership that Budapest finally won its place not only between Europe but also among the world's metropolises. [[15.10]] That's why we've been very supportive of all those infrastructure [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] investment for tourism, cultural and sporting purposes, which contribute to the development of Budapest. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Cleaning the city...]] These agreements, as we have repeatedly said, remain in force. In recent years, the government has established a fair relationship with all municipalities, and it will continue to do so in the future. In any case, we must state that there have been two periods in Budapest since the change of regime. During the Demszky era, the city got dirty, stinky, unorganized, crime-infected, caught up in development, and the city was on the run. He has become unworthy of being the nation's capital. The government had to take over HUF 200 billion in debt from Budapest. [[The intervention of Zsolt Gréczy.]] Now you want to make Gábor Demszky a citizen of Budapest, and your people will be brought back to power. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] As Mayor István Tarlós, however, he saved the capital from bankruptcy and ordered order. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You have failed...]] Today, Budapest is one of Europe's most dynamically developing cities. Honourable Congressman, Please allow me to reflect with a few sentences on your ideas for novum. The government's family protection measures have led to a 2.5-fold increase in the source, from which we can provide free meals for children. This means that 8-9 out of every 10 children in kindergartens receive meals free of charge [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and many more of the schoolchildren are entitled to a meal free of charge. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask for my answer to be accepted. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-62	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-63	Unfortunately, Mr Secretary of State was unable to answer any specific questions. Fortunately, there is a government resolution 1676/2018, where the Minister of Finance is obliged to create the necessary funds and already spend 7 billion forints on a world exhibition that is not a world exhibition, which will take place in 2021. We know that 1 billion of these 7 billion were surely communicated by friends of Antal Rogán, and that was the birth of the valid a call for proposals decision. Unfortunately, there was only one actor who started that. But we can be sure that if 7 billion were to be spent in preparation in 18-19, there will indeed be tens of billions in 20-21. The question of what the Minister of Finance is presenting until 31 December is indeed continuing the policy that led Fidesz to fail in Budapest. For in vain the boasters, you and your Budapest politics were judged by the voters on 13 October.
u2019-11-04-64	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 119 votes in favour, 35 against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:. How does the Government of Hungary intend to continue to support the development of settlements? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Several pro-government representatives leave the meeting room. Noise.]]
u2019-11-04-65	Dear Minister, Following the first two-thirds mandate, the Government of Hungary began to rebuild the country, which also made a big difference in the lives of local governments. When the settlements out of the hands of the left-wing leadership were transferred and taken over, the government had to face the significant debt and budget deficit caused by the social-liberal government eight years ago. This turned back during the pro-government leadership in 2010-2019, as Fidesz-KDNP's outgoing district mayors handed over the municipalities to their successors with a significant financial surplus, with a total of HUF 93 billion. After 2010, the government freed these ten districts from debt of HUF 46 billion, of which HUF 42 billion was created in a part of the city where there was previously left-wing city leadership. In comparison, for the ten metropolitan districts concerned, the accounts have a total of HUF 71.2 billion and an additional HUF 21.5 billion in sovereign debt or committed deposits. Of which, Annex VIII is replaced by the following: 7 plus 6 billion forints for the district, while II. 6 billion forints remained in the district account. On the other hand, at the beginning of September, Gergely Karácsony led Zugló's account, he had a total of HUF 50 million. The Fidesz representatives are ready to cooperate with the new leaders in all cases that are in the interest of the parts of the city, so in the case of the men's handball championship awarded the right of settlement, or in the case of the World Athletics Championship. In view of the above, I would like to ask Minister how the Government of Hungary intends to continue to support the development of settlements. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As you mentioned, nine years ago, Budapest was on the brink of the abyss, up to its neck in debt, and the leaders were up to their elbows in the so-called nocical boxes. This debt trap has now ceased, and with the successful Hungarian economic policy and the resulting economic growth, business tax revenues have increased by more than 70 percent for the city. As you mentioned, the city was freed from more than HUF 200 billion of debt; Metro 4 was completed; Metro 2 was renewed; Metro 3 was being renovated; longer tram lines, vehicles, public parks, university campuses were in progress, and the results could still be classified. The Council of Metropolitan Public Developments was also established. For our part, we plan to maintain this, and this will be the forum for dialogue, just as it was in the previous century during the era of millennial urban development. Of course, if the new city administration doesn't want to run this, then we can accept that too. As Prime Minister said, the government, for its part, provides the same conditions for the city leaders of Gergely Christmas as he helped István Tarlós work. The government cooperates with the current mayor. We believe that Budapest cannot be a battlefield. The government doesn't want to go to war. We are on the side of peaceful construction, just as we have been on its side for the past nine years. Over the past nine years, urban development completed in Budapest has cost HUF 1850 billion, and there is a lot of investment in planning and preparation. All these things can be discussed in substance, what the capital supports and what it does not. In Budapest, the government will not implement urban development that is not supported by the city's management. A good example of this is, say, the Liget project, which is the biggest cultural urban development of the century; old buildings have been renewed, green areas have grown and playgrounds have been built. There are three investments the construction of which has not yet started, beyond the planning tender phase. These are typically old buildings, which could be put in a new light, or neglected areas that could be renewed or further improved. We believe that there is a huge demand in the capital for quality playgrounds and youth acting. In addition to these three investments, there are a number of arguments as to why these are worthwhile. We believe that the opposition can now prove that it is capable of achieving what has been promised in the campaign. We would like the Metropolitan Assembly to take a clear position on what improvements it wants to make, which it does not. We ask the mayor to decide until 15 November at IX. the future of the large handball hall and the stadium based on the World Athletics Championship. If the new leadership of the capital does not support these developments, then we will refrain from these developments and the government will decide what to use the resources released for. The Government of Hungary does not intend to give up Budapest, which has been and continues to be the nation's capital and the home of the people of Budapest. We hope that the elected opposition leaders will think the same way. Unfortunately, the experience of the first three weeks does not seem to support this, they are more concerned with their own prosperity and not with the development of the city. However, whatever the fate of the opposition party, the government is on the side of Budapest and the city. Please accept my reply. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-68	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-69	Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very important for the government to do everything in its power to avoid irresponsible farming in any district in Budapest. What I see after a few weeks is that opposition mayors are already calling for the continuation of certain improvements by changing their previous irresponsible campaign promises in several cases, but I trust, as you have said, that the Metropolitan Assembly will create a clear situation in this. [[15.20]] I hope that there will be no recurrence of irresponsible management in the capital before 2010. I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. When will the Hungarian youth become more important than the alien? It's an address. By responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, responds to the interpellation. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-71	Mr President, Dear House, The biggest crime of the successive Fidesz-KDNP governments is the housing crisis in Hungary, the denial of the crisis and the unsolved abandonment of the problem, as a result of which there is no longer a big city where an average-sized apartment could be rented under a hundred thousand forints. The scarcity of the supply side remains the root of the problem. Unfortunately, not enough newly built apartments are built at all, but rent apartments are even less, and even since the change of method, the housing stock is actually fading and dwindling. At the same time, we see that in Budapest and larger cities, especially in the inner districts, there are hundreds of foreigners who do not necessarily appear on this market for philanthropic purposes, with a hard business-investor purpose, and typically to make these properties habitable to foreigners via Airbnb or other solutions, which means that the rent market that would be available to the one-time young Hungarian university student will be further reduced. And what did the Government of Hungary do? Have you introduced an Airbnb regulation? Did you take the problem and realize that hundreds of foreigners in the inner districts buy apartments per district? No! The Government of Hungary has done nothing. Therefore, although this is not a fashionable genre from the opposition, Jobbik would impose a special tax on foreign-based property purchases that typically affect the stock of real estate that could possibly be made habitable for young Hungarians. Therefore, on the positive side, of course, we also show discounts in our submission: if a Hungarian citizen under the age of 30 with student rights issues his apartment, Jobbik believes that he should be exempt from tax. At the same time, we would impose a special tax on the transactions of foreign buyers, the revenues of which would be used to build a flat within the framework of Jobbik's programme, and not to increase the mass of rent apartments at market prices, but to make these new-built apartments habitable for half of the market price, for those young Hungarians who are expected to have their future in Hungary, we expect a demographic turn. This government is also trying to capacitate them, but if they have such expectations, this must be supported by actions, fellow Members, there must be opportunities for these young Hungarians, the opportunity to stay here in Hungary. And how important this is, your press also acknowledges that just in the days that the price of millions of square meters is spreading, there are twice as many public areas over a million forints for a newly built flat or an older square meter than it was two years ago. So, at last, do something to solve the problem in substance. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because denying this housing cataclysm, the process that endangers the future of Hungary, is a sin.
u2019-11-04-72	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Deputy Minister András Tállai responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the question of interpellation, which he thus asks, when the Hungarian youth will be more important than the foreigner, the government's response is absolutely clear: the Hungarian youth has always been more important and the first, and this will continue to be the case, and I believe that the government will fully support it with its economic policy, social policy and home creation policy. There's one thing we agree on, what you said in your interpellation. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: It is a sure foundation!]] I mean, he didn't say that, he just wrote it down, and that is that Hungarian families can take on their children at home, and that the Hungarian economy should be strengthened by its taxpayers. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: We can start from this.]] But I'm sure there's two things we don't agree on. One is that this social policy objective, in which we agree, you want to achieve by raising taxes. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: No, there is no tax to raise, Mr. Secretary of State, read it.]] We certainly do not agree on this, because the Fidesz-KDNP government is not the new taxes, the government of tax increases, but the government of tax reductions, and this has been confirmed by the economic policy and tax policy of the last few years, the essence of which is to reduce taxes in all areas, as the revenue from the public budget would not have decreased, but increased significantly by reduced tax revenues. So we disagree on that. Then we do not agree, either, honourable Member, that we are placing Hungarian people in rented homes, property of another, whether it is municipal property or state property, or the property of Jobbik. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] No! The Hungarian government wants Hungarian families to live in their own apartments, and to do so, it created a system of family home-building benefits. The essence is that Hungarian people and Hungarian families can build, renovate, expand and live in their own apartments. This system has already touched 117 thousand families, and these families have used a discount from the state for some HUF 353 billion. We could list the various discounts, and I would perhaps mention one more of them: under the baby shower scheme, every married person under the age of 40 can borrow freely, which he can use to buy and renovate a home. By 31 October 35 thousand loan contracts were concluded. But I could mention the village CSOK, where 14 billion forints have already been used, and I can mention measures that fully suggest that people's temporary housing problems will be solved. For example, state aid, which ten thousand workers have already been able to make use of. But I could say the creation, maintenance of the workers' hostels, the expansion of the dormitory seats, the programme set up in 2016. In addition, the State is trying to help the growth of the supply market with a tax discount, as from 1 January 18 the health contribution to the increase in the supply of private rentals has ceased. But I can mention the corporate tax exemption system. We want to achieve this social policy goal with subsidies and tax incentives, unlike you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-74	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-75	Mr President, Dear House, I can't accept the Secretary of State's answer because he didn't even get to read what I put on the paper. I understand that your colleagues have prepared for you a government eulogy and propaganda papyrus, but I didn't tell you about a tax increase, Mr. Secretary of State. You're gonna have a vision that's not here. We were talking about the introduction of a new type of tax, which is solely charged to foreign real estate buyers, and the discounts only give Hungarian young people a better life situation. Read what you're answering, Mr. Secretary. It is a shame and a shame that millions of Hungarians are left out of your world! Are you talking about barracks, construction of workers' hostels in relation to young Hungarians, Mr. Secretary of State? ! So what happens in the barracks and the workers' hostels? There's Cyrillic subtitles out there, Mr. Secretary. There are no young Hungarians there! Not Hungarian young people get a flat at a reduced price, but Mexican workers protested last week due to working conditions in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , the people coming out of your workers' hostels...
u2019-11-04-76	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-04-77	We should find a place for young Hungarians...
u2019-11-04-78	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-11-04-79	... through a rental housing system.
u2019-11-04-80	I'm waiting for your answer, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-81	You're not doing that, you're cutting off the problem. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-82	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 119 votes in favour, 31 votes against and one abstention. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How does the government help balance private life and work? It's an address. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2019-11-04-83	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The focus of the Fidesz-KDNP government's family policy is on the priority support for raising children, because our future is in the interest of all of us to live in a country where they encourage childbearing and help raise children. In addition to this commitment, the financial basis is that Hungary's economy is increasingly performing, in line with the increasing security of jobs, the rise in wages and reduced taxes, tax and contribution reductions, Hungarian families can calculate today. Since 2010, the government has doubled the rate of support for families and has helped and intends to help many families with children, ranging from young children to students and young adults. Under the new family support scheme, family tax relief was introduced and subsequently extended. As a further measure, the government restored the three-year child and introduced a diplomat in addition to raising the maximum amount of the child. The government leaves tens of thousands of HUF for parents with children with free nursery and kindergarten meals and the introduction of free school textbooks. The housing support was introduced, which was replaced by the family home creation discount from 1 July 2015, i.e. CSOK, which was requested by 114 thousand families by the end of August 2019 for more than HUF 340 billion. Dear Secretary of State, Of course, it is not enough to focus on family support; it is also important not to have to choose only one of the family formations and career building. It is therefore necessary to take government measures to reconcile family and work. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, how does the government help balance private life and work? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. Thank you in advance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Katalin Novák is responding to the interpellation. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear fellow Members, Thank you for asking, thank you for giving us the opportunity to talk again about this important issue, the support of families here in Parliament. We have been working since 2010 to make Hungary a truly family-friendly country. Our goal is that all young people can have as many children as they want and as many as they want. This requires removing obstacles to childbearing from young people, removing the financial burden of having children, the financial disadvantages suffered by those raising children, compared with those without children, and helping to balance work and family. Every young woman's rightful need is to experience the joy of motherhood, and at the same time not have to give up her job or even give up her profession or career, and to achieve both simultaneously. Therefore, since 2010, we have taken several steps, several measures, and I would just like to give them the headlines. One of our first steps was to return the child's third year. This is also important because anyone who wants to stay at home with his baby for three years can now do it again, because again in Hungary the child is three years old. We introduced the ged extra as of January 1, 2014, which now does not prevent women from returning to the labour market with a small child, even with a half-year-old child, and do not suffer any disadvantage as before, they will receive their wages in full, and they will also remain entitled to family support. According to the 2018 data, nearly 60,000 women took advantage of the opportunities offered by ged extra, which shows how popular this is among mothers. We introduced a family tax relief system that provides significant financial support for raising children, so if mothers work alongside raising children, they can spend their savings on their families thanks to family tax incentives. With the various benefits of the job protection action plan, we help mothers with small children to work or even to work part-time. Part-time employment is also supported by the fact that when a mother with small children asks her employer to work part-time, she has an obligation to provide the employer with the possibility of working part-time for four hours. From 1 July 2019 the family protection action plan was launched, one of the important pillars of which is about nursery constructions. We are developing the nursery care system because we want women with children under three years of age to be able to return to the labour market in such a way that they can also ensure that their children are placed in a safe place during the day. That is why we have raised the salary of daycare workers significantly, up to 40-50 percent, which is why we have increased the funding of crèches to five times as much as it was in 2010, and that is why we are constantly increasing the number of crèches, building the new crèches, modernising the seats, so that now there are nearly twice as many seats as there were in the crèches in Hungary in 2010. Even now, more than HUF 100 billion is available specifically for crèches. From January 1st next year, thanks to the family protection action plan, the Grandparent family will also start. This helps that if a family does not want to give the child to a nursery, and both parents work alongside the small child, and there is a still active grandparents who would like to take part in the parenting of the granddaughter, then the grandparent can go to school from 1 January. The results are also visible, female employment is constantly increasing, female employment is at its peak, and we have caught up with the EU average in this respect. There are a lot of tasks ahead of us, and I do not say that we have done all the work we have done, and I am asking for the support of our fellow Members in the future. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-86	I thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-87	Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I accept your reply as an honor. In response, he sends a message to Hungarian society that raising children and working are valuable, and all these are not antagonistic contradictions with each other, all of which can be achieved by parallels. It sends a message to the Hungarian society that through the Fidesz-KDNP government we will help families, not only in everyday life, but also in view of the circumstances of the work. Madam Secretary, the message of your reply is important, but it is also important that as many people are informed of this message as possible. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to make even more public the family support she can use for our fellow countrymen. Thank you again for your reply, I wish you a good day. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Why didn't he write in his letter that pensioners are lending to the Government this year and next year, because pensions have been raised or raised at a lower rate than expected inflation? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-89	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Last year, too, we drew attention to an anomaly that, apparently, will accompany us here in the coming years. At the end of the summer, the Prime Minister wrote a letter to the Hungarian pensioners, in which he said that everything was actually okay here, the performance of the economy allows them to pay a pension premium or pension supplement in Hungary, but the Prime Minister forgot to write that last year they knew that inflation would be higher this year than required by the Finance Act. We are in the same situation as last year; it is known that a 2.7 percent pension increase was made under the budget law adopted last year. [[15.40]] So everyone knew, because the MNB and the KSH now confirmed it, so the MNB predicted it, and KSH confirmed that there was some 3.4 percent inflation. This means that inflation as a whole is 0.7 percent higher than pensioners received, in Hungarian: pensioners financed the government for a year, but it will not be better, as I see it, even in the following year. The Hungarian National Bank published on its website that next year there will be some 3.4 percent inflation planned, which is likely to happen, but the budget was adopted with 2.8 percent inflation, and a 2.8 percent pension increase will take place on 1 January. As a result, I would like to say now or I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, after nearly a month and a half from the autumn session of Parliament, he saw the opportunity to amend this legislation, and to raise a pension of at least 3.4 per cent for the following year against 2.8 per cent, so that the masses of pensioners do not finance the government in advance, which, of course, in November will be very graciously returned by the government to a sum. Therefore, I repeat my question: Mr Secretary, have you seen the opportunity to raise a pension of around 3.4 percent on 1 January against 2.8 percent? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-04-90	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation.
u2019-11-04-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, How do I put this? Your interpellation is certainly interesting, but it may be more than that, I think it's untrue. Or maybe even more than that, I could say he's a liar. [[Uproar, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] You know why I'm saying this? I'm saying this because when you were a pro-government Member, and you had to vote on how pensioners' pensions were corrected, kept their value, their real value, you voted against that. You have governed for eight years, for seven years you have not been able to guarantee the stability of pensions, the preservation of your purchasing value. I can also give you a concrete example, because under your governance, the purchasing value of pensions has decreased by 10 percent. You have abolished the 13th month pension, and now you are standing here with this political background, with this political past, and you are asking that the government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, who has fulfilled every year what you have been unable to do, even when it was difficult for the economy, because in 2010-11 and 12 the Hungarian economy has not yet been so strong, the government has been able to deliver on the promise that the purchasing value of pensions must be maintained, pensioners must benefit from the good performance of the economy in the same way as the rest of the economy, workers and entrepreneurs. To support this with numbers, pensions increased by 34.2 percent between 2010 and 19th. As a result of lower inflation, their purchasing value increased by 10 percent over the nine years of Fidesz, unlike your governance and your approval. I would like to reassure you that, both in 2018 and 2019, the government will fulfill its promise for 2020. It will deliver, the planned increase in consumer prices at the beginning of the year, planned for the budget planning or the previous year, will be corrected in November. In the month of November, pensioners will receive two amounts, one correction for price increases, more than 2 million 150 thousand old-age pensioners will receive this, and 400 thousand other pensioners will receive it. By the way, this will amount to HUF 25.5 billion. In November, pensioners receive an average pension premium of HUF 20,000 and a pension supplement of HUF 11,000. The pension premium is linked to the good performance of the economy and the pension supplement is linked to the correction of inflation. In 2019, therefore, pensioners will receive an average of approximately HUF 30 thousand in November under the law, the law adopted. I think that with this government policy, in the last nine years, the promise that pensioners will have the purchasing value, real value, achieved, and that in the 2020 budget year, it will be fulfilled in the same way as the law has agreed, unlike your government time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-92	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-93	I'll start right from the beginning by not accepting that answer. Secretary of State, tell me in this interpellation which text was the theme for the previous 15, 20, 25, 30 years. None. I asked that, since it is clear that next year the National Bank is planning an inflation rate of 3.4 per cent, it saw the possibility of a pension increase of at least 3.4 per cent against the planned 2.8 per cent pension increase for the future. That's right, we'd have to amend the budget law. That's all I'm asking, and you've been talking about everything. Look, I'm a proud socialist [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] I agree that for seven years, we've paid 13 months' pensions, which you haven't returned. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Your prime minister in Eger promised the pensioners a 14th month pension. Not only did he cheat the pensioners, he takes 12-13 thousand forints a year from every Hungarian pensioner's pocket on average by underdesigning [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] inflation. I don't accept your answer.
u2019-11-04-94	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 119 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What is the purpose of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line after the area purchased in Trieste? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2019-11-04-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I am very pleased that we can finally talk about this important issue, the second largest project in Hungary. The project of the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was justified in 2017 by the possibility of reaching the port of Pyreus. At the same time, it seems to be contrary to the fact that recently we learned that the Hungarian government in Italy bought an area in the area of the port of Trieste for the purpose of establishing a logistics base and port. Then Minister said that this future port in Trieste will satisfy all transport needs for all Hungarian and domestic businesses. Then it is not understandable what is necessary to renovate the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. According to experts, this giga project, together with all elements, additional elements and interest, will be able to reach the thousand billion forints, so it is not only a completely unnecessary investment, but it is also very expensive from the point of view of Hungarian national interests. So, in itself, if we look at the specific elements of the renovation of the railway line, this project seems to be inexplicably expensive. My specific questions to the Minister: if the future port in Trieste meets all transport needs, then what else is the need for rail development to reach the port in Pyreus? If this particular development is such a big business, then why is this to be paid by Hungarian taxpayers on Chinese credit, why is it not done by the Chinese on a market basis? A thousand billion forints of public money will be spent with everything on this project where are the return guarantees for this project? Where is it written that this investment will be profitable for the Hungarian people? It is clear and visible how the Chinese are building their own background bases and what developments are being made in the port of Trieste right now, and it seems increasingly that, at least towards Central Europe, the Chinese will consider the port of Trieste to be a docking base rather than the port of Pyreus, which they already manage. What is your guarantee that the Chinese will even want to transport on this railroad? [[15.50]] And even such an interesting, political curiosity, perhaps, that the politicians of the North League or League, who are allied with you, and the head of the Trieste-Monfalcone port authority, have made it very clear that, seeing the plans, seeing Trieste becoming an increasingly important base, this particular Balkan transport route will be pointless. Minister, does this mean that you no longer believe your political allies in this project? Thank you very much for your answers in advance.
u2019-11-04-96	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Thank you for raising this issue here in Parliament, because we are really talking about an important issue, given that Hungary is a small country with an extremely open economy, so our economic performance is fundamentally determined by external dimensions, so our external trade and external economic performance is basically determined. And when we talk about foreign trade and the external economy, we also need to talk about the fact that not only world politics, but also the world economy, are undergoing amazing transformations. I think it is no exaggeration to say that a new world order has been created, and we find ourselves in a completely new world economy era. Since one of the most important indicators of the Hungarian economy is that our share of exports and GDP is now 86.5 percent, it is clear that the rapid delivery of goods to the external markets is a key issue for us. Just as it is a key issue that we can finally take advantage of Hungary's geographical situation, and that our position in Central Europe really benefits us. With regard to your specific question regarding the two ports, I can tell you that the ports of Trieste and Pyreus are not at all competitors or competitors, the port of Pyreus and the port of Trieste can only be classified as complementary to each other. In view of the fact that the port of Pyreus is the largest port for receiving ships, they can receive ships from the Far East, arriving on the Suez Canal, on the shortest route, to come to a large European port. They can't receive these types of ships in Trieste. Therefore, what takes place in Pyreus, a Chinese majority-owned port, is that the goods received are loaded from large ships or land and then transported by train or, where appropriate, by trucks to the interior of the continent, or transferred to smaller ships, and, inter alia, to the port of Trieste. Thus, the two ports are not competing with each other. I would like to say to you that, while in 2008, this port made 437 thousand containers of traffic, last year it was 3.7 million containers; this represents a 8.5-fold increase. And as we look at the trade flows between the European Union and China, we see that last year there was a 7.5% increase in trade flows between the European Union and China of EUR 604 billion. And as we look at the extent to which the largest European economies, the Germans and the French increase their trade traffic with China by 6 percent and 8 percent last year, we see that the traffic of the port of Pyreus will not, by accident or in the short term, increase. And it is a key issue for us to enter into the competition from the moment on which goods arrive on the mainland reach Western Europe. And this competition has been run by several people. We have also entered into the renewal of the railway line between Belgrade and Budapest, in connection with which the construction contract was concluded, the credit negotiations between the Chinese eximbank and the Ministry of Finance are still ongoing; the construction contracts will rise to legal force and enter into force if the loan agreement is concluded. I would like to emphasise once again that the negotiations on this are still under way. To sum up, I can therefore tell you, Mr High Representative, that you have undoubtedly touched on an extremely important subject. From the point of view of Hungarian external economic performance, both the route from the port of Pyreus to Western Europe and the port of Trieste will be of great importance now and in the coming period. So this is not a question or a question, but we must be present in both areas. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-98	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Mr. Group Leader if he'll take the minister's answer.
u2019-11-04-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, you, with everything, will spend nearly a thousand billion dollars on this one project, while not half of this amount will go to the development of rural infrastructure in a very poor state, such as the development of lower roads. Well, in light of that, Minister, why didn't you answer my most important question: where is the guarantee? You have given me different principles, different goals, different plans, but in spending a thousand billion forints, I believe that you owe me responsibility to provide clear calculations, a written guarantee based on economic calculations, that this project will ever pay back to Hungarian taxpayers in life. Minister, you have not been able to provide such a guarantee, and you have not answered this question. And another addition to how relevant this shipping route will be. Well, it's not long since we've read the news that in three countries on this transport route, the rail transport between Belgrade-Skopje and Thessaloniki has been terminated with a joint decision, Minister, because of underutility. This project does not seem to serve any other interests than Chinese interests, contrary to Hungarian national interests. Since you have not answered my questions, Minister, I cannot, of course, accept your answer. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 120 votes to 41, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. What does the budget proposal give to people from wages and pensioners other than empty promises? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-11-04-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Citizens, In a normal country, we would discuss the budget at this time, but you are proud to adopt next year's budget before we can get to know the facts of the previous year. The closing accounting law has recently been negotiated, and if we were to write the 2020 budget this autumn, for example, we could take into account things that are one of the highest inflation rates in Hungary, food prices are rushing, housing costs have been blown out, and accordingly, pensioners or young people starting their careers are having a very difficult time managing the month ahead of them. But you're gonna deny it, you're gonna lie. An example is what Lajos Korózs said: the pension increase is 2.7 percent, while the official figure on the price increase is 3.4 percent. But we also know that this can be achieved with different methodological tricks, as Tamás Mellar has repeatedly highlighted, the real data is even higher. So despite your propaganda, pensions are losing their real value, and you are forcing Hungarian pensioners to lend public finances. This is why, as a result, the poverty rate between pensioners doubled between 2014 and 17 years. These are the numbers of the KSH, it's hard to argue with them. Hundreds of thousands of our senior countrymen are in poverty because of your politics. But the depth of poverty has also increased between 14-17, the poverty gap has increased from 16.7 to 24 percent, which is because the budget does not raise subsidies, and even what is taken away from the poor is given perversely to the rich. It is quite amazing, and moreover, as they eliminate the so-called aid policy and replace it with the public works system, they also lead it out, because again, we know from the accounts that only 170 billion have been spent on the 225 billion public work programme planned for 18 years. As a result, poverty is growing, poverty is spreading among the elderly. And how you value civil servants, public service workers, is how you describe them. It says:. The budget provides an opportunity to start and continue careers in other sectors, but the government will decide on them later. There is no mention of the increase in wages of many public service groups in the budget, just as hundreds of thousands of public service workers have not been increased in nine years. [[16.00]] This is the shame of this country, this is your shame, and the question is whether you will ever deviate from this practice, whether you will return the public servant's salary, whether you will raise your basic salary to 60,000, as we have been demanding for years, so that those who work in the public service can finally bring home the earned salary at the end of the month. Thank you for your answer. [[Applause from the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-11-04-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Since you started with a comment, allow me to begin with that. A normal fraction administers interpellation in time. You guys just missed that because you were supposed to give me the interpellation on Tuesday, you were used to Wednesday, and you couldn't give me an interpellation. That's what you were just trying to say when you submitted it on 26 June during the budget debate. [[Noise and interruptions from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch, how embarrassing!]] By the way, that's probably why I couldn't say a single word from the interpellation you gave me on 26 June. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is how the capital will work!]] because, by the way, in the budgetary debate and when the budget was adopted, everything was answered. So now he's been talking about something, but he didn't talk about one, since we're quoting the past, about what kind of program you had in 2018, when it was a parliamentary election, economic policy. If you'll allow me, I would like to recall how you're afraid or how you're hurting that the income of Hungarian people or the value of pensions will remain or will not remain. First of all, if it were up to you, you'd have a 30-percent personal income tax. It's written down. [[Noise and interruptions from the dialogue.]] It's written in their program. With 30 percent income tax, it would be difficult to maintain people's net income, its purchasing value now. Here's what's important about your program: 19 percent corporate tax would be refunded. This means that companies would not stay for development and would not stay for wage increases, would not be able to finance a wage increase that, for example, increased by more than 10 percent this year, in the first half of the year. And let's not forget, by the way, congratulations on giving a zero-percent party to the mayor of the capital of Budapest today, but this is a huge achievement for you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Bence of Turdai: 51 percent! 51 percent!]] But thank you. [[Bence of Turda: To the electorate! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: To whom?]] I don't rate it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] what their allies, Mr Christmas, have declared in the campaign: it introduces a tax in the capital. [[Bence Tordai: Tiborcz tax! The taxes of your oligarchs!]] He's taxing, taxing property, taxing wealth that no one knows the limit, the extent of it. [[Bence of Turda: 500 million!]] The point is, if you get power, you have nothing more to think about than the need to raise taxes, people have to be taxed. [[Bence of Turdai: The rich! Top one percent!]] This has always been the policy of the left, your allies, your good friend, and, of course, the Dialogue has now taken over. As far as the Fidesz government's wage and income policies are concerned, I think there is nothing to be ashamed of. The budget has introduced various career models, which it has been able to deliver to stakeholders in several stages for years. This is the case for teachers' wages, law enforcement workers, health care, the social sector and other areas. As far as next year's wage development is concerned, the budget will ensure this both in the provision and specifically in the area of health care. It is true that this will be decided by the government on the basis of the authority of the law. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I can assure the Member that the increase in income in the public sector will continue in 2020 as has been the case in recent years. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I welcome my fellow Members and ask Mr Bence Tordai to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Secretary of State's response was invaluable. I don't know how long it's been possible to stamp the cast [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] interpellations to see exactly what the date of administration is. I would have expected a meaningful response to a proper interpellation. The question was why Fidesz is pursuing a perverted social policy, taking it away from the poor, and benefiting the rich. Yes, I am proud to say that the Dialogue is a green left party, and I am proud to say that we want to tax the top one percent and large companies, and I am proud to say that we want to introduce the basic income, which is better for four fifths of the Hungarian people. The fact that you can only imagine how to offer new discounts to your super-rich friends, and to your lobbyists and outliers, who represent the interests of large companies, how to offer new and new discounts does not mean that this is also the way for the left. This is your path, and you should be ashamed of it. I don't accept the answer. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Bravo! Applause in the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2019-11-04-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 122 votes in favour, 39 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister with the title "The Margó of Magnitsky." Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congresswoman. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, We probably do not need to present to you or members of Parliament the tragedy of Russian Sergei Magnitsky's late lawyer and tax advisor. In 2008, he revealed a series of crimes resulting from the taping of the Russian state budget, linked to the Russian Hermitage Capital trustee. The reward was that the Russian authorities accused him of this fraud, put him in prison, and died in November 2009 due to lack of health care and abuse. Subsequently, international organisations were set up to reveal the reality, in which it became clear that the beneficiaries of the case were able to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars from tax claims at State level in Russia. In the course of the work, the so-called Magnitsky list was completed, which at that time represented more than 60 persons who could participate in a series of frauds linked to the Hermitage Capital Fund and the imprisonment and death of Magnitsky. In 2012, the US House of Representatives adopted the so-called Magnitsky Act, in which it imposed visa and financial sanctions against Russian officials who participated in the execution and cover-up of this series of frauds. In July 2012, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly adopted a resolution calling on all OSCE Member States to introduce visa sanctions and to freeze assets resulting from a series of fraud detected by Magnitsky. In January 2014, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution on the refusal of an exemption from liability for the murder of Sergey Magnitsky, and in April 2014, the European Parliament issued a recommendation to the Council of Ministers to restrict the entry of 32 persons involved in the Magtatsky case into EU countries. On 17 December 2015, the United States Senate adopted the Act on the Liability of the Rule of Law, which resulted from this case. In 2016, the United States sanctioned 39 Russian citizens for their involvement in this matter. These names can be found on the website of the organisation that records the application of sanctions. Following the 2016 decisions, visa guarantees were introduced in Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, Latvia, the Netherlands and the freezing of the assets of the responsible persons. Since then, every month another country has applied these consequences to Russian persons whose identity has been clearly and identifiable for the series of fraud detected by Sergei Magnitsky and his death. There is no international conference, there is no conference of an international organisation that does not devote a subject to this matter; I myself, at the last NATO Parliamentary Assembly, was an important topic of our committee, and from month to month the countries are joining it, because it is an extremely serious and dangerous criminal organisation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] At the end of 2018, the Hungarian Government signed an agreement on the establishment of the seat of the Russian Investment Bank in Hungary, in which we undertook to grant all employees tax and contribution exemptions to this bank. [[16.10]] The National Assembly 2019... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2019-11-04-108	I'm sorry, Congresswoman, it's three minutes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It's in writing!]] And I really let that overflow for 54 seconds, so if you'll excuse me... [[A round of applause for Andrea Varga-Damm to her fellow Members: I thought it was four minutes.]] He's got a four-minute window for the whole thing, so that's a one-minute answer. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-04-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for bringing this up. Because of the written nature of the interpellation, therefore, I am also aware of the question, even if my fellow Members do not, but the answer will explain what your question would have been. You have correctly informed the Hungarian Parliament and the public. So, in recent years, the United States has indeed created a number of new legal bases for sanctioning nationals or entities from foreign states or other countries. One of these is the law you referred to here, which from 2012 gives the United States the opportunity to sanction citizens or entities from other countries. Typically used against Russian government officials, by the way. In 2016, the U.S. Congress then amended this legislation, so it is currently in an appropriate form, and the range of persons and entities on this list is also reviewed year after year. Of course, this legislation adopted by the United States does not create a legal obligation for other countries. The United Nations and the European Union sanctioning regimes have binding effect on Hungary. In addition, I respectfully inform you that none of the 54 individuals under the so-called Magnit programme are included in the Hungarian consular information system. So there was no data on them in the consular information system. In addition, I would like to inform you of the issues that have not been mentioned here, but have been submitted in writing concerning the International Investment Bank. The International Investment Bank is a bank owned by a total of nine countries. The majority of the nine countries are five members of both the European Union and NATO. And these five EU and NATO members are marked by Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria with a total ownership ratio of 52.1 per cent within the bank. So the four non-EU and NATO members are in the minority of Russia, Mongolia, Vietnam and Cuba, with 47,9 percent of the votes and ownership structure. So I would like to emphasise once again that the International Investment Bank is a bank owned by a majority of the EU and NATO Member States. In addition, the global headquarters of the International Investment Bank moved to Hungary, especially Budapest, have the same privileges and immunities as the rather large number of international organizations operating in Budapest. So they don't have any extra rights compared to them. On the other hand, I would also like to inform you that we are also in daily contact with the relevant services of NATO countries, including the United States and the United Kingdom, in order to be able to express their views on the data of employees arriving at the International Investment Bank. We have not yet met a case that has posed a threat to the security of either Hungary or NATO. I would therefore like to underline once again that the relationship with the services of the NATO countries is ongoing, and we are making only a decision which is consistent with Hungary's economic and security interests. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-110	Thank you very much, Minister. I respectfully ask Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to accept the ministerial answer. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-111	It's gonna be a rare moment in this House because I'm forced to accept it. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. The president's ringing the bell.]] I can't do anything else, given that this matter and this package of matters concern not only a party or opposition, but our entire country and the credibility of our country. I have raised this question in particular, and I do not want to offend anyone, of course, but I think that President Putin is a little involved in Hungary. And these regular and otherwise unsubstantiated negotiations and visits to an opposition representative or opposition party suggest that these visits may also be linked to conditions in which it would not be good for our country to participate. That is why it is important to keep such matters on the agenda, and even to ask for a ministerial reply, which I naturally accept, because you have answered my question, Minister, but I ask you to disperse the opposition's opinion that President Putin does not come exclusively to Hungary for diplomatic reasons, but rather has a business side to this relationship. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: å Much fuss for nothing? ! Even though there are so many family-friendly measures, no more children are born! It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Parliamentary Secretary Katalin Novák will answer the interpellation question that has been raised. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-113	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We have been hearing for years about the demographic problems that the government is solving with its measures; press conferences and announcements are coming one after another in these matters, but if we look at the statistics, this girl is not so beautiful, and we need to look at the location of her. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, for some time now, the news about population development has been telling us that the Hungarian population is losing more weight, that fewer children are born than before, mostly in Western Transdanubia and in southern Transdanubia, much less children are born. Here the previous statistical data, or available statistical data, show that the number of children born decreased by about 11 percent over the course of a year. As I was saying, it's mainly down South Transdanubia, and it's a decade-long low. The total fertility rate that the government often mentioned and intended to increase was 1.41 percent. In previous years, about 1,45, but it seems that this positive process seems to be halting, and rather stagnating, or maybe it has already turned back. As I mentioned, given the data, the government's plans for family protection are not worth much. A predictable family policy would be needed, not one to two or three years of support. I would also like to note that it is true that the population decline started decades ago, which is why women of childbearing age are becoming less and less. But this is added by the fact that many people no longer have children in Hungary because of emigration, according to some research, there is much higher fertility among Hungarian families living in England and other countries than in Hungary, so that Hungarians living outside have more children than those staying in Hungary. Obviously this is also linked to the circumstances, wages, health care and education at home. Clearly, where there is more certainty about the level of subsidies, actions for living, and where health care is better or where the education system provides more, parents would prefer to take on more children until we do. I don't think there's much to explain. That is why I am asking why, in the first place, they are more supportive of better families, why they are giving up children and their families in poverty, and why they are not making home-building support more widely available to those living with wages and salaries. I ask you to answer these questions, and I will listen carefully.
u2019-11-04-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, on behalf of Minister Katalin Novák, State Secretary, will answer the interpellation question that has been raised. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor. [[16.20]]
u2019-11-04-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Honourable Congressman, I think you're lucky because we don't call out sexism here in government benches when certain terms are said, although it might have been justified when you talked about the girl's location with regard to family support. Of course I won't do that. You're lucky. [[Noise in the lines of MSZP and DK.]] But not only are you lucky, but Hungarian voters are also lucky, because they do not have to conflict opinions and make decisions on the basis of which they are able to contrast facts and government performance. They can confront your government's performance with our government's performance. Let's do it now, too. You just said in your interpellation that as a proud socialist, you see your performance as such. I ask you, honourable Member, that you consider yourself a proud socialist to have taken away the third year of the child during your administration, to be a proud socialist when the condition of entitlement to the child was raised from half a year to a year. Did you consider yourself a proud socialist when the tax relief for families with one and two children was abolished and your three children reduced? Or are you proud that under your governments, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families have been trapped in foreign currency loans, or have they been forced to raise their bills, raise their taxes? This performance can be put against the performance of the current government and the results. Indeed, by 2011, following your governance, the desire to have children in Hungary has fallen dramatically, and this is not independent of the government performance of previous years. I am pleased that the problem of population loss has now been recognised, and I am pleased that you, too, consider family support important today, although it is not under the responsibility of governance. We have done this under the responsibility of government since 2010, and we have said that we need to stop population loss, and we have been actively trying to reverse it ever since. What have we done? For example, we have brought back the third year of the child, introduced the extra child, and now we can return to the labour market with a baby of six months, and we will not punish it as before. The maximum of the lawn has nearly doubled, we have introduced the family tax reduction, the CSOK, or the family protection action plan from July 1st. And to reflect on your specific questions and suggestions as to how the expenses have evolved. In 2020, we will spend two and a half times as much on supporting families as the amount entered in the budget in 2010. The fertility rate today is 21 percent higher than it was at your time, so nearly 90,000 more children were born as if this fertility index had been stable at that level. According to the latest demographic figures, they haven't had as many marriages in 40 years as they did in August this year. So we can be hopeful for the future as well. The number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion has decreased by 40 percent compared to your time. I am proud that there is a fundamental philosophical difference in our approach. Yeah, we don't want to give people aid, we want to give people jobs, and I think it's offensive to say that poor people don't want to work. Yes, poor people want to work and work. That is why we are linking family support to work, and that is why CSOK can be used in Hungary today with a minimum wage, and baby shower support can be accepted with a minimum wage. So it's not true to claim that poor families would be excluded from family support. Please do not take away the joy of more than 100,000 families who can benefit from these family support. And please also understand that if we do not ask you for advice in shaping family support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-116	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I respectfully ask Congressman Lajos Korózs to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-117	After all, this interpellation is a good genre. I understand everything now, Madam Secretary. The young Hungarians get married, then go to England, and the wives have three children in London. If everything's so cool, if everything's so fine, then why don't you just tell me why no more kids are born? Thank you, I don't accept your answer.
u2019-11-04-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As we have heard, Congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. So I respectfully ask you to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 132 votes in favour, 47 against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the interpellations. It is now up to you to decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that Mr András Aradszki has received a motion to suspend the immunity of our fellow Member from KDNP on 18 October 2019 at KSB 141/2019/5-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee at the request of the Attorney General H/7889. Mr András Aradszki presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of our fellow Member. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In his transcript, the Attorney General has proposed the suspension of the immunity of Congressman András Aradszki for the miscarriage of a road accident. The following facts can be identified from the investigative materials. The accident occurred in Érden early afternoon on 26 December 2018. The Member did not take into account the mandatory indication of priority, so a young man driving a motorcycle came across his car. Although the motorcyclist was moving at a speed higher than permitted, he was not entitled to drive a motorcycle, the Member was very careful, very slow in the crossing, but the facts show that if the Member had been more careful, this traffic accident might have been avoided. The victim suffered a nasal fracture, a fractured skull, and minor contusions. At today's committee meeting, Mr Aradski appeared, acknowledged his own responsibility in the matter, and also indicated that he had already informed the authorities that he had given up his immunity. Obviously, the congressman assumed that this would be a misdemeanor, since the injuries were healed after eight days, which is why the case was brought before the Parliament. By 6 votes in favour, our committee proposes to the Parliament that the Member suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-120	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr András Aradszki that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. András Aradski: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the congressman's immunity be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament of András Aradszki. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of András Aradszki by 181 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that László Varju, MEP of DK, received a motion to suspend immunity on the 25th of October 2019 from KSB 71/2019/17-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee at the request of the Attorney General H/7890. Mr László Varju presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. [[16.30]] Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, who intends to justify the committee's proposal orally, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In his transcript, the Attorney General has proposed the suspension of the immunity of Parliamentary MP László Varju for criminal offences and for aggravated assault. The following facts can be found from the investigative materials, which I present to the Parliament.2018. On the 16th of December, in parallel with a demonstration, several representatives entered the headquarters of MTVA Kunigunda Street at 9:15 p.m., and of course they were allowed to enter on the grounds of their legal status. They're in the building of MTVA. [[Noise in opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's where the head of security warned Members that they couldn't enter certain places. This was also debated by the Members and Congressman Varju. The head of security has been informed that they want to go into the newsroom because they want to read certain demands. The next day, really interesting events happen. At 10:20 a.m. the next day, Congressman Varju wanted to enforce his rights or the rights of his supposed representatives with a greater obligation than the others. [[Continued noise in opposition benches.]] As the transcript says, the armed security guard's wall was hit, and there was a struggle and a struggle between them. In doing so, he grabbed one of the security guards' calves. This act, in itself, is capable of declaring this act an abnormally anti-communicative and violent behavior. At 4:30 p.m., the event will continue that afternoon. At that time, the congressman wants to go up to the first floor of the MTVA C building, and he will go up there, targeting the control rooms and the doors of the editorial offices. Armed security guards will prevent him from entering these premises. Then the security commander orders the congressman's release. László Varju is resisting, lying down or throwing himself on the ground. He grabs one of the security guards who want to lift him from the ground and pulls him out. So that security guard falls to the ground and gets hurt on his shoulder, [[There's a constant murmur in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] He's been suffering healing injuries for over eight days. In the view of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the classification of the act is the Btk. 339. § (1) of the Code, as well as the Btk. 164. It shall be capable of declaring the offence of a serious assault contrary to paragraph 1 and treated in accordance with paragraph 3. This well-founded suspicion is based on testimony, forensic medical opinion, documentary evidence. At today's meeting of the immunity committee, Mr President, he also appeared and expressed his view that he had not committed a crime, that he had not committed any illegal conduct, that he had only defended his own integrity. As a public prosecutor, the immunity committee decided with a majority decision, 4 yes, 2 with no vote, that the parliamentary representative's immunity would be suspended by the Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju indicated that he wished to make use of the opportunity to speak and asked to speak on the platform. House rules give us the opportunity to do so, honourable Members. We will now wait for Congressman László Varju to come up to the platform, and accordingly... Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[Together with László Varju, Bence Tordai, Gergely Arató, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Antal Csárdi, Zsolt Gréczy, Anett Bősz and László Hajdu take the steps of the speaker's platform.]]
u2019-11-04-123	Thank you very much. Dear fellow citizens, Democracy can be renewed, but it can also die. The latter could happen to us. With war, with weapons, we have seen this in Turkey, Argentina, but there may also be cases where elected leaders, prime ministers or presidents, not generals, make it impossible and destroy the system that helped them to power. Some leaders do not waste their time, but, in the shortest possible time, eliminate what is otherwise called democracy. Many of us know that democracy is dying in Hungary. Infectors, but more like his killers sitting across from me, the pro-government shores • • • • • • • • • • [[Interviews from KDNP, including Ferenc Gyurcsány. The eyeball.]] But you must know that the fundamental test of democracy is not that there comes a prime minister who turns the institutions of democracy into a political weapon filled with his own people, but the question is that the parties, as responsible communities, can stop him. Fidesz failed this exam. You failed because you gave an unworthy reply to the Democrat when you allowed their leaders to undermine the institutions of democracy and fill these institutions with their own party people. They're reappointed as a political douche, and in return, he's launching political proceedings against opposition parties, the representatives of the parties. The certificate is issued on its own. Not only could they not prevent it, but they did not speak against it when it was said in a sentence: the system of brakes and balances, that is stupid, forget it, it has nothing to do with the rule of law and democracy. But they didn't stop you and your friends from stealing billions of dollars at an overpriced price, and you're covering for all of this, even when international conviction is obvious, punishment. It's for the taxpayers to pay for it. And you didn't tell me when one of your party's people dared to say before the election:. In a few days, you'll be separated from the number of traitors living in this country. Anyone who doesn't vote for Fidesz candidates on the 13th will act against their own country. So it's clear that those people are traitors, and as such, they have no business being in this country. We do not need Hungarians who do not take this view as we do. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Since you did not feel ashamed of this, you have received the answer from the electorate that there is no need for local government leaders with such principles. After all this... I'm not telling you anymore, because you know exactly what you're doing is purely conceptual. The current governing parties are particularly fond of accusing their own victims of what they themselves are committing. In this, they find a willing partner in the prosecutor's office, otherwise recognised by the court, which covers up dozens of corruption cases involving pro-government politicians, but they immediately take action to prosecute the opposition. However, it is not your bread-payer who is to blame for this despicableness, but you, who approve everything to get a positive look, a small billion from the common table. And we can see that whoever got this is on the move, and he's gonna find himself a helicopter, a small plane, a small yacht, and he's gonna enjoy all its services. My countrymen! I didn't commit any crime. It is clear that the sole purpose of the procedure is to reduce the reputation of the MEP in Újpest. I am fighting for democracy, for that republic, with my fellows, where no man should be afraid of his opinion; for freedom of speech, where they do not acquire the right of expression. And you're preventing that. My countrymen! Thank you for your kind attention. [[16.40]]
u2019-11-04-124	Dear Parliament, I will wait for my fellow Members who have just stood on the side of the pulpit to take their place in order not to be prevented in some form from voting. [[László Szászfalvi: Anarchist revolutionary! Sit down. A voice from Jobbik's benches, Font Sanyi, where's the flag?]] Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the Member of Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend László Varju's immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of MEP László Varju by 138 votes in favour, 47 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by making personal proposals. First, members of the Curia of the Public Service Foundation will be elected and sworn, followed by the election of the new member of the Constitutional Court, the deputy of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who protects the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the election of the Chief Prosecutor by secret ballot and then the taking of an oath. Dear Parliament, The election of the members of the Civil Service Foundation's Curatorium will follow. I welcome the candidates, their family members, all the permanent guests of the Parliament, our guests who will attend our meeting. I would like to inform you that the term of office of six members of the Civil Service Public Foundation has expired on 11 October 2019. The Speaker of Parliament is S/7848 on the basis of a motion from the pro-government and opposition political groups. has presented a proposal for members of the board. I would like to ask you to explain this to me, notary Dezső Believing. Here you go, notary.
u2019-11-04-125	Mr. Parliament! The National Assembly is CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 86. According to paragraphs (1) and (2) and (10), Dr. Izabella Bencze, Dr. Miklós László, Szilvia Varga and Dr. József Debreczeni, László Kranitz, Dr. Máté Tibor Silhavy are elected members of the Board of Public Service Foundation. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 30 October 2019 László Fat
u2019-11-04-126	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 86. Pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 10 of the Act, the National Assembly shall elect six members for a period of nine years, with a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present, by an open vote in the Committee of the Public Service Foundation. Now it's time for the decisions. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. Bencze Izabella as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Bencze Izabella was elected by the Parliament with 171 votes in favour and no votes against, with four abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bencze Isabella, seated in the box, is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. Miklós László as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Miklós László was elected by the Parliament with 170 votes in favour and no votes against, with 5 abstentions. (Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Miklós László, who is seated in the box, is standing up to thank you for your applause. I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Szilvia Varga as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Szilvia Varga to the Board with 168 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Sitting in the box, Szilvia Varga stands up to thank you for your applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. József Debreczeni as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dr. József Debreczeni to the Board with 168 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. József Debreczeni, who sits in the box, thankes for the applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect László Kranitz as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected László Kranitz as a member of the Board with 169 votes in favour and no votes against, with 5 abstentions. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. László Kranitz, who is seated in the box, is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to elect Dr. Máté Tibor Silhavy as a member of the Board of Governors. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Máté Tibor Silhavy was elected by the Parliament with 171 votes in favour and no votes against, with 5 abstentions. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Jobbik. Dr. Máté Tibor Silhavy, who is seated in the box, is standing up to thank you for your applause.]] Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath and the oath will be signed. With all due respect to Dr. Izabella Bencze and Mrs. Szilvia Varga, and Dr. Miklós László, Dr. József Debreczeni, László Kranitz and Dr. Tibor Silhavy Máté, please come to the center of the room and take the oath. [[Noise.]] Dear Parliament, We will wait for the newly elected ladies and gentlemen to take their seats in the middle of the Chamber. [[It's happening.]] I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to listen to it in accordance with our custom. Here you go, notary. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Izabella Bencze, Szilvia Varga, Miklós László, Dr. József Debreczeni, László Kranitz and Dr. Tibor Silhavy Máté steps into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs pre-reads the text of the oath, which is repeated in addition to the names of the elected.]]
u2019-11-04-127	I, Dr. Izabella Bencze / Szilvia Varga / Dr. Miklós László / Dr. József Debre-czeni / László Kránitz / Dr. Máté Tibor Silhavy, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as a member of the Board of the Public Service Foundation for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A big round of applause.]]
u2019-11-04-128	Thank you very much. Please take a seat at the National Assembly. [[The people in the room are sitting down.]] [[16.50]] And I'm asking you to sign the oaths. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates the elected members of the Civil Service Public Foundation's Curatorium and gives a copy of the signed oath documents.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the elected officials on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish them every success in their work. I ask the faction leaders to congratulate me on the recent oath. Thank you very much for the appearance of newly sworn officials, you may leave the meeting room. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, It follows that the new member of the Constitutional Court, as well as the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who protects the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the election of the Prosecutor General by secret ballot. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidates, Dr. Tünde Hando, Dr. Mrs. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and Dr. Péter Polt. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I welcome the honourable family members of the candidates, the members of the Constitutional Court, all the permanent guests of the Parliament, who will attend our meeting today. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Dr. István Stumpf's term of office expired on 22 July 2019. I would like to thank you, on behalf of Parliament and myself, for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, In place of Mr Stumpf István, the ad hoc committee identifying the members of the Constitutional Court S/7821. CLI 2011 on the Constitutional Court. Act No. 7 Acting in its power under Article 1 (1) of the Act, Dr. Tünde Handó proposes to elect Mrs. The Justice Committee has listened to the candidate and supported his election. The resolution on this and the candidate's biography were all available from the website. The National Assembly elects the new member of the Constitutional Court with two-thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament for twelve years on the basis of the proposal submitted by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 1 January 2020. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the mandate of Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, for the protection of the rights of nationalities living in Hungary ended on 21 October 2019. Dr. László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, resigned on 25 September 2019, is the 2011 CXI on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. Law No. 4 § (1) suggested that the Parliament re-elect Dr. Szalayné dr. Sándor Erzsébet as Deputy Commissioner of Fundamental Rights for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities Living in Hungary. The nomination and the candidate's biography are S/7580. Available on the website. The Committee on Justice, the Committee on National Inclusion and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary have heard and supported the candidate's election. The Committees' resolutions on this can be found on the website. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Association of National National Governments has unanimously supported the candidate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament elects the Deputy Commissioner for Fundamental Rights for six years by voting two thirds of the Members. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Under the parliamentary law, the vote is classified. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Dr. Péter Polt's term of office expires on 14 December 2019. János Áder, President of the Republic, made a proposal for the person of the Attorney General. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2019-11-04-129	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 29 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the 2011 CLXIV on the status of the General Prosecutor, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of prosecutors. In the light of the provisions of the law, I propose the following to the person of the Attorney General. [[17.00]] Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 29 (4) of the Fundamental Law, CLXIV 2011 on the status of the General Prosecutor, prosecutors and other public prosecutors and on the career of prosecutors. Subject to the provisions of law, I propose to the Attorney General Dr. Péter Polt the current Attorney General. Budapest, 18 October 2019 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-11-04-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Biography of the nomination and candidate S/7828. Available on the website. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that Parliament elects the Attorney General by voting two thirds of the Members for nine years on the basis of the proposal put forward by the Speaker of Parliament, with effect from 15 December 2019. Under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, the candidate shall be elected by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, The process of secret voting is as follows: Members can take the ballots in the Danube corridor, in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive three ballots of different colours and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. I would also ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or 'no'. Now, I would like to ask Mr Dezső, Commissioner, to briefly describe the voting rules and, with respect, my fellow Members, to remain in their seats and listen to it. Here you go, notary.
u2019-11-04-131	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed only to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot paper, with two incisive lines placed in squares with his name attached to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2019-11-04-132	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I would also like to announce that 60 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so for 18 hours to 3 minutes. The results of the vote are expected to be presented afterwards. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering the secret vote. (Secret vote: 17.03 18.33 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2019-11-04-133	Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats. We'll get back to work. I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He noted that 164 Members took part in the secret vote. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidates. On the person of Dr. Tünde Hando, 164 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 3, the number of valid votes is 161, the number of votes is 134, the number of votes are not 27, and no votes have been cast. On this basis, I find that Dr. Hando's Fairy was elected by the Parliament as a new member of the Constitutional Court. Dear Parliament, Dr. Szalayné dr. Sándor Erzsébet's vote was cast by 164 representatives based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 4, the number of valid votes is 160, the number of votes yes is 153, the number of votes no is 4, the number of votes abstention is 3. On this basis, the Parliament elected dr. Szalayné dr. Erzsébet Sándor as Deputy Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to protect the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. Dear Parliament, On the person of Dr. Péter Polt, 164 Members cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 3, the number of valid votes is 161, the number of votes is 134, the number of votes not cast is 24, and no one casts the vote. Based on this, the Parliament elected Dr. Péter Polt as the Attorney General. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oaths and the oaths will be signed. I ask Dr. Tünde Hando, Dr. Mrs. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and Dr. Péter Polt to come together to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. And I will ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the three vows separately, and I will ask the Honourable Parliament to listen to them as soon as the elected people are in line for an oath, standing up, according to our traditions. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Tünde Hando, Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and Dr. Péter Polt step into the center of the room.]] Notary Lajos Szűcs has the floor. Here you go, notary. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-11-04-134	I, Dr. Tünde Hando, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its laws and to keep them with others; to exercise my office as a constitutional judge for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-11-04-135	Dear Parliament, The oath of the Deputy Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to protect the rights of nationalities living in Hungary will now be followed by the text of the oath law, which will be read by notary Lajos Szűcs. Here you go, notary. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-11-04-136	I, Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-11-04-137	Dear Parliament, Now the Attorney General will take an oath under the oath law and the Public Prosecutor's Service Act. Here you go, notary. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-11-04-138	I, Dr. Péter Polt, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as chief prosecutor for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. In fulfilling my legitimate obligations, I act impartially and impartially. So help me God.
u2019-11-04-139	Dear Parliament, Please take your seats, and I ask the elected officials to sign the oath papers with notary József Attila Móring, with their signature. [[First Dr. Tünde Hando signs the oath papers, then Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, and finally Dr. Péter Polt. Attila Móring, who signed the oath papers, congratulates all of them and gives them copies of the signed oath papers. The elected officials were first congratulated by Viktor Orbán, then by Dr. Zsolt Semjén, László Kövér, Péter Harrach, Dr. Máté Kocsis, Dr. György Lukács and Imre Ritter. Dr. László György Lukács, handing over a cup to Dr. Péter Polt: This is for you. Learn from it. He deserves the work of the last nine years. That's all you know.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Dr. Tünde Hando, Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and Dr. Péter Polt an effective work and good luck. [[18.40]] Dear Parliament, Before we proceed to the debate on immediate questions, I thank you for your work so far, I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[It's a short break.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair. The notary seats are occupied by Attila Móring József and Sándor Szabó.]]
u2019-11-04-140	Dear Parliament, My fellow Members, please take your seats, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-11-04-141	Mr. President, two minutes ago, Prime Minister...
u2019-11-04-142	Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer...
u2019-11-04-143	Don't lie to me and tell me that you have a public mission that can't be delayed.
u2019-11-04-144	I'm waiting for your answer. [[James Peter: Come back and answer! Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Come back! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where were you two minutes ago? You were sitting in the hallway!]] Congressman, I'm waiting for your answer. [[James Peter sits down. A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, including Dániel Z. Carpathian: You must stand before the voters! We know you're not coming...]] We have the proper procedure, Mr. Prime Minister, period. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse the patience of the people? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask Congressman, do you accept the person of the response, or personally...
u2019-11-04-145	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2019-11-04-146	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-147	It is true: where has Viktor Orbán gone, who has become an indeterminate public service? He was here in the last minute or two minutes ago, but today, here at the previous moment, the Fidesz majority voted, accepted and celebrated the re-election of Péter Polt, the most loyal prosecutor in the popular language. [[Interviews from the benches of the governing parties, including Sándor Font: Listening!]] And his loyalty to the Fidesz, who voted in favour of him, seems to thank him. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches, Clown!]] He has a lot to thank for, because he has blocked at the highest level in the last nine years, in his previous cycle Péter Polt's investigation into corruption cases, and therefore Jobbik has not voted for Péter Polt. He can't be the attorney general of Fidesz, the attorney general of Hungary. It is also a coincidence that we gave him an award, and in recent minutes it has been nothing more than a gold-grade supporter of domestic corruption, as this was the peak of his professional career so far, which has now peaked in a re-election. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's why you support Ferenc Gyurcsány...]] He got it because he refused to take action in cases where he refused to do so until the end of reason, because he could see that all these matters that I was about to say were being investigated, he refused to take action in the Tiborcz case, didn't he, he is Viktor Orbán's son-in-law; he refused to take proper action in the Ghaith Pharaon case. But we could mention the Quaestor scandal, or to say a local one, in the Kun-Mediator case, he didn't exactly rip himself off so as to make it some sort of accountability. But we could say 1,600 million forints: Flórian Farkas still did not account for it. Of course, an investigation is not worth it; but we can also bring the settlement bonds here. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] One thing is clear: people see law enforcement at the highest level is biased, impressionable. The profession sees that the prosecution is more loyal to the government than it should be. Europe sees that Peter Polt does not protect EU money. It's just evidence you guys made today. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They voted for Péter Polt. Péter Polt maximum [[The president's ringing again.]] Chief Prosecutor of Fidesz, not the Attorney General of Hungary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-04-148	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. [[18.50]]
u2019-11-04-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I'm in a difficult situation that we're supposed to be in the hour of immediate questioning, but no question has been asked, so I don't know what to answer. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews in Jobbik: Where has Viktor Orbán gone? How much longer? He asked where the Prime Minister had gone. Dániel Z. Karpát: I think that has come out of the speech. Dr. Bence Rétvári: And where is the president of Jobbik?]] What you have said, Congressman, is not true in many ways. The first question is not where the Prime Minister has gone, but where the Jobbik faction has gone. After no one from the faction was here, it would have been difficult to expect anyone to wait for you. We can also add that there are several of the cases you have mentioned where investigations are being carried out, several where criminal proceedings are being prosecuted. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Tell me more.]] Obviously, it was his duty today to give this speech after an action not particularly high-quality or humorous. Next time you add a question, especially if it falls within the competence of the government in this area, since the prosecutor's office in Hungary is independent and is not subject to the government, as in many EU countries, I am happy to respond. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-150	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-11-04-151	Minister, the only problem is that these questions, which can be formulated in the country, and we can ask in Parliament, for example that they are biased or partial, and this is a question that you can answer, the Hungarian people are asking, because they see a row by row, and we can give up to a hundred reasons why you cannot vote in favour of Péter Polt, all a hundred reasons stand in their place, in more than a hundred or a hundred cases one thing happened: Péter Polt defended those who are close to power, and Péter Polt did not account for those who received what the government took out for them. He will not represent Hungary in good faith and will not be famous for having a success story for the country, but in fact for the nine years and the next nine years will be the darkest period of democracy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The darkest again?]] And everyone will remember that this was the time when the prosecution's role in control and law enforcement was successfully evacuated. Minister, you will not have to ask questions here, you will have to answer these stains of shame. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-152	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-11-04-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I wonder where we could have found a common point where we could perhaps have talked together about the weaknesses of the Hungarian justice system, and there was one, since after the government between 2002 and 2010, you wanted to put everyone in jail. I don't know if it's a good thing or a pity that this didn't happen, but they've been working with the people they've been trying to put in jail ever since. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: What you should have done! Why didn't you do the count?]] On the other hand, as regards the cases listed by you... Accountancy in a rule of law is a matter for the prosecution and the court [[Interventions in Jobbik's ranks: Then you don't have to make an election promise! Then you don't have to promise me in the campaign. Gyula Budai! The president's ringing the bell.]] that is why the independent prosecutor's office and the independent court are imposing restrictions on the current executive authority. In your thinking, these limitations may not exist. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It is not for us to explain!]] They have found themselves allies whose thinking also does not have these limitations, there are undoubtedly common points here, but I would like to tell you that János Áder was the third President of the Republic, who nominated Péter Polt as the Attorney General, and that Árpád Göncz was the first President of the Republic to appoint him as the Chief Prosecutor. I believe that the performance in itself of the extent to which the number of crimes has fallen since 2010 demonstrates the effectiveness of law enforcement. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: The default threshold has been 50,000... The president's ringing the bell.]] And what I do not want to argue with you is that it is not factually true that the prosecution would not press charges against pro-government politicians or even representatives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-154	Thank you for your answer. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Don't look at the teeth of a gift horse! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-155	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Minister Kásler announced at a press conference several days ago that some 249 electric-powered Golf cars were bought into health facilities and were given as a quasi-gift. After a few days, it turned out that they were not given a gift, as Minister said that some three billion forints were intended for the purchase of this vehicle, and then it turned out that the institutions not only did not ask for these vehicles, most institutions do not even have a filling station where these vehicles could be refueled. In addition, they were also surprised by the fact that they had to pay rent, not too little, because about 54 thousand forints per car. One institution at a time, I think they get three vehicles, this has to be repaid on a quarterly basis, which means nearly HUF 1.5 million for institutions that are in a rather high debt situation. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State why they bought vehicles that the institutions did not ask for. I look forward to your reply.
u2019-11-04-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-11-04-157	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It shows the opposition's duality that, on the one hand, they talk about the need to take effective action to protect the climate and, on the other hand, when the state buys 249 electric cars, they are against it hand and foot here in Parliament. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] why the government is giving electric cars to Hungarian hospitals and healthcare institutions. Honourable Congressman, We are facing a fine example of opposition news production or pseudo-news production. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't talk about false news!]] You quoted the article of Népszava here last week, only one thing you forgot to quote, that you were quoted in the article, that you were renting, because they also knew that no one was collecting rent for these cars, which is why the journalist of Népszava put a quotation mark on it, that if there were any proceedings against it, he was only talking about a quasi-lease. [[György Szilágyi: The journalist is afraid to write the truth! He's afraid of retortion! You're afraid of the independent prosecutor's office that you might sue him.]] In fact, in a three billion HUF program, 249 modern electric cars are provided by healthcare institutions and 132 charging stations to fill these cars. They can be used for inter-site transport, blood transport and emergency transport. But obviously, every car, the electric car, has some kind of operating cost. In this 53 thousand forints, which is not rent, Congressman, you know, the rent of a car for a month would not be that much, it has the maintenance fee, it has the repair fee, it has the service, it has the rubber replacement fee, it has the maintenance of tyres, it has the casco, insurance administration and assistance. This is the cost of every month for cars, which is the same as for an electric car, and obviously every car has a cost every month. These cars also have a cost, only Népszava, because they wanted to create a mood, so they combined these costs and named them as rents in quotes. But this is a complete slippage, honourable Member, and you can be aware of that, as we have issued a clear statement on this last week. Whichever institution asks for these free cars will get them, whichever one doesn't want them, won't get them. But it is important that we have done more with 250 modern electric cars for climate protection. Please support these very environmentally friendly proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-158	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-11-04-159	Thank you. I will support and welcome all climate protection measures. Of course, I may have said it inexactly, because they don't pay rent, but a usage fee, this exact definition is supposed to be included in this statement, and it's not 54 thousand forints, it's 53 987 forints 30 forints. That's all I had to add. The other is that I checked how much these electric cars cost on the market: between 9.5 and 10,5 million forints. They're all supposed to cost $12 million here. 249 electric cars, please, and usually, where they buy three, they give fleet discounts, most likely for the same amount of money or a lot more cars, or someone had a terrible profit. I hope not. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-160	Thank you. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You must have missed in my previous reply, honourable Member, that these three billion forints also include the complete construction and installation of 132 service stations, precisely so that they can use these cars well in their everyday routine. Please, when you calculate the cost, do not simply divide the total gross amount by the number of cars, but count the possibility of this nearly 150 service stations, which will obviously serve the charging of many other environmentally friendly cars in the healthcare facilities. Congressman, I think it's a good thing. It's a good thing more public institutions are finally using electric cars. It is a good thing that we do not have to replace the fleet with hospitals from their own budget, but the state gives them this free of charge, and it is good that they are fully built from the filling station to the rubber exchange to the casco and everything else, until they have the assistance, so that in the case of new cars they do not have to learn how to solve one or another problem. [[19.00]] I think it's a good thing we finally made progress in this. It would be good for you to be able to welcome these environmental measures here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-04-162	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, representative of the Democratic Coalition, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. Tens of thousands of Hungarians die by the time a pensioner can be retired, why doesn't the government act? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Yes.]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I accept Mr Secretary of State as a responder, but I note here that it is really not normal for the Minister to be here and never to answer one question. Come on, someone who decides on his programme, let him pay his respects at times in this House, after all, that would be his duty. And now the question. Almost 30,000 adults are not worth the retirement age every year, and Hungarians over the age of 60 can hardly count on health. Almost 30,000 of the adult Hungarians are not worth the retirement age, and the vast majority of them, more than 23,000, have already passed their 50th anniversary. Those who reach retirement age are not few who can enjoy a well - deserved rest for only a few years, since 13-14 thousand of those aged 65 die within five years. Freezing data is that if you add that on average about 23 thousand people over 50 have died in the last few years, that is to say, so many of the age groups that are closer to retirement have never retired. If the retirement age was suddenly 70 years old, 43-44 thousand people would not be worth being retired every year. In the meantime, we have data that indicate an increase in mortality among 65-69-year-olds. According to KSH data, that's true. According to Miklós Kásler's own declaration, 26 thousand Hungarians die every year because they do not receive the right healthcare. The family policy and social policy of the Orbán government, well, these figures prove it, failed. Less Hungarians are born and more die than during the Gyurcsány government. I ask the Secretary of State what they intend to do to reverse the wrong trend. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-164	Thank you. I give the floor to State Secretary Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Before I answer the merits of the question, we have had a sharp debate here in Parliament once. At no time did Minister Kasler and any other member of the government claim that any number you say because the number you say and twice that number would lose their lives because of the fault of the health care system. Last time, you couldn't tell me when and where he would have said this, because he never said it, so you can't give me a location or an appointment, and Imre László, his fellow hospital stopper in South Buda, whispered in his ear that it was on the Internet in some study. So please, Congressman, don't repeat this because it's not real. You said tens of thousands of people will die before they reach retirement age. In the last year of your governance, in 2010, 35 326 people died before the retirement age was reached; last year, six thousand fewer, 29 479. So if your government had continued, a few thousand or even six thousand more people would not have reached the retirement age, unfortunately. If you look at how many people over the age of 65 die, unfortunately, in Hungarian, how many people reach the retirement age and leave the world as pensioners, you can also see that there is a rise from 95 thousand to 101 500. So you can see the same rise of about 6,000. So, thank God, more and more people are worth this, and this is the result of an increasing life expectancy in Hungary due, among other things, to health developments, because while it was 70.5 years in 2010 for men, it is now 72.5 years, so that the life expectancy for men has increased by more than 2 years, it has increased by more than 1 year for women. So, overall, life expectancy has increased by more than 1.5 years, so we live longer, so those who are born now and who grow up later can expect much more, so fortunately more people can live to live in retirement. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-166	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give you the floor in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So let me get this straight. 28 February 2019 Tens of thousands of people are dying to live. Miklós Kásler announced a program. This is the data contained in an official government presentation, Miklós Kásler notes, and he himself records this data. In 2017 with the best time intervention, 24,000 deaths could have been prevented by claims by Miklós Kásler. So, thank you very much, this thing has been corrected. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did you quote?]] Problem is that Hungarians live in brutal stress [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where did you quote? Folk's word?]] Hungarians don't live safe. Their pensions are inadequate, since they do not even follow inflation. In addition, hospital departments are closing down. Simply in our time, pensioners could even leave their grandchildren some money or give money, because there was a 13th month pension, for example. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What you took!]] Which, by the way, you forgot to make up for, and you didn't return the fourteenth. So that's the problem of pensioners, and that's why Hungarians die. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know where he quoted it from, probably from the People's Land where they're taking it from. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Portfolio.hu!]] But it has the same credibility as the previous ones when they call the casco rent. You say that's what Miklós Kásler said, while someone saw a study on the Internet somewhere that said so, and from now on they're going to give it to the minister. Honourable Congressman, I don't think it's a government... Read that article better, obviously we read quite a lot in that period, and they do this with reference to different AEK studies and other studies. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] of course, in the case of pensioners, you would not have been prevented, honourable Member, from saying that the women vote 40, or any opposition representative. You say that it is necessary for a government to work so that Hungarian people can have peaceful, retirement years as long as possible. Then why didn't the Women vote for 40? Neither you nor any other opposition party. Now he stands up and talks about it so that there will be peaceful retirement years. [[György Szilágyi: What about the men 40? Tell me about that, too.]] There was some way to vote for the Women 40, while a month's pension was taken from everyone. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-04-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you want to change the government's environmental policy? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally?
u2019-11-04-171	Thank you very much. I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-11-04-172	I would like to inform the congresswoman that the Prime Minister has to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions, and I would like to say to all my fellow Members that, according to the relevant house rules, of course, each minister and Prime Minister will respond with priority at the appropriate time, but it must be answered at the third meeting. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "The success of rural development is the success of the countryside or political influence? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-04-173	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, The program "Modern villages" or "Hungarian villages" needed the countryside as a piece of bread. It has many very good goals. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is where we should stop speaking.]] One of these is the strengthening of national and local identity, at least the first round of evaluation of which has already been carried out. This is also an important goal because it covers such a wide circle and includes a relatively wider opportunity to apply for the renovation and construction of community spaces. It is a serious problem for many small settlements, especially small ones, to fund this themselves. The programme's objectives were summarised with a relatively broad participation in society, based on real and real needs. The question is only that implementation has the ability to preserve the population in this politicised administration system, which was the purpose of this proposal. If the politicisation of aid schemes is significant, it may make the assessment criteria which, in the case of objective or discretion, can provide for a decision without bias, or the strength of party political relations can determine the range of beneficiaries. [[19.10]] If anyone looks at the results of Baranya County, the lines of force that show the strength of the influence will be drawn in the least knowledge of the political conditions of the county. But it is also obvious that, by putting these aside, for example, Villány, the centre of the famous wine region, has received support, while none of the settlements of one of the most disadvantaged districts, the district of Hegyhát, have won any tenders. My question is why. Also, many settlements have been placed on reserve lists, received a reserve list decision; so there will be a second round. I'd like the answer to that. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-04-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for your question, and I also thank you for recognising in a different way from the general style of Hungarian politics that the programme that we have published under the name "Hungarian Village" really serves the village communities, and that the rural lifestyle should not be detrimental in any way to the urban lifestyle, or at least the differences that arise can be mitigated as much as possible. The question of political influence is perhaps the most bypassable of this type of settlement, because more than 90 percent of the villages under 5,000 are in the circle where there are independent mayors. Therefore, I believe that no one wants to impose any political influence on the party. The aim is to have more resources than ever before, since we can give a long list of examples where otherwise worthy and eligible programmes have been included in the reserve list. The government is working for it, and I will not be surprised that it is likely that next year will be decided to increase the resources of this programme further. Therefore, I hope that any development that has gained your sympathy or sympathy for others and serves to stay in place, to strengthen rural communities and to complete their cultural identity can be supported. In particular, in the case of the district of Hegyhát, I apologise for all the applications which are not in front of me right now, but I would be happy to look into them, and I will give the congresswoman information on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-176	Thank you very much, Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2019-11-04-177	Thank you very much for your answer. I'd like to give you some numbers. In the district of Bólyi, 5 in the district of Hegyhát, 0 in the district of Komló, 1, in the district of Mohács, 5 in the district of Pécsi, 2 in the district of Sellyei, 5 in the district of Siklósi, 1 in the district of Szentlőrinc has been successful in this competition. I would like to believe that this is indeed true, and I trust that it will be so, that political influence really does not matter, even because many mayors indicate, as former mayors, that we are comrades, that there are indeed certain Members, respect for the exception, are actually trying to use it for influence. I've been getting a message that I'm not gonna get the village where I live, and I'm not gonna give you support on purpose, so they don't think I want to influence anyone because I live there. Now I'd like to ask you where I'm supposed to move to, because then I'd move to a settlement I might be mad at so that they don't get one. I think you should refrain from doing that, but thank you for the answer, by the way.
u2019-11-04-178	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-04-179	I would refrain from underestimating the Member's place of residence, but not from overestimating her. So if you define exactly what kind of settlement it is where it is necessary to support a meaningful, useful programme for the purpose of the local community in the framework of the Hungarian village, then I will try to help the congresswoman to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-04-180	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: why doesn't the government do anything about the increasing number of airbnb housing expenditures? It's an address. Minister Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, Deputy Minister, has appointed a response to the urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding or to ask for the answer in person.
u2019-11-04-181	I'll take it.
u2019-11-04-182	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The recent study and announcement of Colliers International, which shows that the number of people in Hungary with more than two apartments on the Airbnb market is increasing, so they rent apartments specifically for business purposes. Today, 61 percent of the landlords rent more than one apartment in this market, which is well above 40-50 percent in most European cities, probably because this issue is regulated there. Moreover, most of these apartments are not owned by Hungarians, they are issued by foreigners. So I'm not talking about the Hungarian people who have an apartment and rent it out, as a matter of fact, to supplement their modest income. This 61 percent significantly distorts the housing market, increases rent prices and housing prices, thus putting small Hungarian people, including the large number of young people who start living. The average rental fee in Budapest exceeds HUF 160,000, this is more than half of the net value of the average salary shown by your KSH. And today, Magyar Nemzet has already reported that there are millions of square meters in the city centre. In other words, foreign real estate investors push up real estate prices so that they are slowly priceless for an ordinary Hungarian person. Dear Secretary of State, Are you planning to take measures against the increasing number of commercial Airbnb apartments? Thank you for your answer.
u2019-11-04-184	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as Congressman said, this service has become popular in Hungary since 2015, mainly in Budapest, which is a commercial service carried out through Airbnb. I note that this can only be done in the possession of a tax number. Airbnb, as a community service provider, provides the offer of commercial accommodation providers via the Internet and the demand for such accommodations to users, and does so legally; legally, therefore, it states what the Hungarian government can do in such a case. It can control the activities of these services, service providers and home users. This is also done by the state tax authority, monitoring the activities of Airbnb more closely, all those who use and continue to provide accommodation. This activity is a service provided by electronic means, so taxpayers who can provide services remotely to the European Community countries have the opportunity to carry out their tax obligations in a so-called one-stop shop. The tax authority's experience is that, in general, taxpayers and service providers comply with their tax obligations, with appropriate prior authorisation from the tax authority, the municipality. For example, as a result of this verification, the tax authority found that in 2015 HUF 6 billion of revenue was generated from this type of activity. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-186	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The question was that they were planning to do something, so they weren't. Thank you for showing me how the Airbnb worked. By the way, I would like to remind you that in the beginning it wasn't for people to buy more apartments on a business basis, but for those who have an out-of-use apartment, it's for rent, and it's for them to make some money. This has been regulated in many places by various means, in Amsterdam, Madrid, London, Brussels, Vienna, Berlin, precisely because the locals could not pay the rent properly or buy an apartment. I think the time has come when we have to do this here, because there are only able-bodied young men living in one room, because there is nothing else they can pay, even if they are looking for the net of the average wage shown by your HCSO. So it's time to change that. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-188	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-189	I think this is a question of how the person who owns the apartment has to decide how to make use of the property in question. If it complies with Hungarian and even EU rules, laws and regulations, it can only be very, very difficult to regulate. [[Bence of Turda: No! Easy! It takes political will.]] It takes a will. Then I suggest you sit down with your fellow party, and he said that many of his friends are Airbnbs and don't pay taxes. They're not gonna like what you're saying. [[19.20]] This man's name is Gergely Christmas, who even said that he would like to see that every room cannot be rented or every property can not be rented. In Hungarian, your mayor would like to restrict the people of Budapest in the exploitation of ownership. I don't know if this is the direction, sit down, talk to me, make a suggestion. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-190	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-191	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The independent action of Ákos Hadházy, which was presented by the Parliament on the 21st of October, caused great outrage. In violation of the dignity and authority of the House, the House presented obscene, vulgar and vulgar signs during the speeches made at the meeting. I would not like to quote these texts literally here. There is nothing new under the sun, since Ákos Hadházy is not far from such stunts, which are shocking, it is enough to recall that when he went to the MTVA headquarters to play a spider man, and then lay there in a punchy sock and tried to make everyone believe his own truth. With Mr Hadházy's obscene manifestations, not only the authority of this House, but also the culture of political debate. By putting the Prime Minister of the Government, elected democratically by Hungarian citizens, in an unworthy position, which caused indignation in the eyes of all voters. Not to mention the example of his behavior for the young generation. It is regrettable that Ákos Hadházy is unable to exercise self-control in the Parliament, and that he does not shy away from the use of the most distasteful and nasty provocations in order to achieve his goals. It is also a cause for concern that a Hungarian Member of Parliament can afford behaviour that is very far from the culture of Western Parliaments and of the European Parliament, and that the opposition, rather than distance from it, is trying to protect the indefensible. [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Following Mr. Speaker's example, it is clear that we must stop the Hungarian Parliament from turning a circus into an aggressive political battlefield. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Minister how to ensure the smooth functioning of the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-192	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-193	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Although the government did not give an opinion when drawing up the House Rule or Parliamentary Law, I was then Vice-President of Parliament and I was a Member of Parliament, so I am very pleased that we created the disciplinary right that did not exist in the Hungarian parliamentary law after 90. And even though it was a matter of debate at the time, it has been repeatedly confirmed by life since then. At the most, it is possible to argue that we have introduced sufficiently strict rules, or that even more stringent rules that really exist in Western European practice should have been adopted. Of course, many things can be prohibited in order to protect the dignity of the Parliament, the parliamentary law and the house rules also prohibit certain conduct, but we know that in itself, something is forbidden, does not mean that it is not possible. Thus, even when he sat down, Mr Hadházy could not be prevented from showing his own card here in Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-194	Thank you very much, Minister. Fellow Members! Before I give the floor to the rejoinder, I would like to point out that this is not a dialogue, Mr Szilágyi. I think maybe we can have mutual respect enough to listen to each other, I think. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it is very important that rules be put in place that can prevent similar acts from happening here in the Hungarian Parliament. Maybe it's me if I think it's important that we listen respectfully to each other, that we can listen to each other, that we don't yell at each other when the other one talks. I am very sorry that during this speech, which is about how to behave in the Hungarian Parliament, I did not manage to say this here in the House without shouting and ordering the President to order. I find this very regrettable, and I trust that every representative of the Hungarian Parliament will be able to behave in the future in the way that the voters have authorised it and what the dignity of the House demands. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We have little reason to trust that, but what else can we do? Indeed, it would be good for the Parliament to be the scene of intelligent debates. Perhaps in the long run, it would be more worthwhile for the opposition as well. But after living in a democracy, the voters must ultimately draw conclusions. It's not good for the opposition to have clowns, but it would be particularly harmful for the government to have clowns. It is better to keep clowns in opposition or outside the walls of Parliament. We have to leave this to the voters. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-198	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How does the government help reduce the credit burden on families? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[Attila Móring József: I accept, thank you.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-199	Thank you for the floor. Indeed, it was on my list that Congressman Gergely Farkas would have followed, so we probably just switched places, maybe that's all. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was founded in 2010, highlighted families. Hungary's Fundamental Law on Family as a value-bearing and value-creating core unit stated that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Following these principles, the new family support scheme was introduced and subsequently extended. The government has continuously expanded and extended the family support system according to Hungary's performance. In this context, the seven-point family protection action plan announced at the beginning of the year was implemented. One of the important elements of this action plan is that the government provides interest-supported loans, whereby the interest actually paid can be kept low and repayments can be planned. Thus, families who do not have the means to create a new home can also take advantage of it. Of course, the existing children are also thought of by the government, and they are designed and helped by the young people in terms of economic performance. For this reason, the first Orbán government established the Student Loan Centre in 2001. Student loans reached a milestone in 2019, as free-use Student loans1 can be claimed under the most favourable conditions so far, with interest rates reduced to 1.99 per cent. In addition, student loans for training costs2 can still be received at zero interest rates from 1 July to 31 December 2019 thanks to the State interest rate subsidy. Dear Secretary of State, Family policy can only be successful if the government helps to raise the child from the birth of the child. I'm asking how the government helps reduce the credit burden on families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look through Europe, we find few countries, probably none, that would support young people's start-up in so many ways, so much help to have children. It is enough to think of the CSOK or government aid for the waiver of various loans. [[19.30]] You referred to student loans here, and we all know that mothers who have children and have student loans can expect student loans to be suspended at the time of the first child's birth, then, at the birth of the second child, a partial remission of student loans, and at the birth of the third child, the state pays full student loans instead of mothers who have even three children after graduation. But it is also very important that, in contrast to what we saw before 2010, when the then-day government let hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families into the trap of foreign exchange lending and did not protect them, not only did they not receive any support, not only did it take the interest rate subsidy for the forint loans away from them, which was introduced by the first Orbán government, but it even unleashed an extremely dangerous construction and put hundreds of thousands of people on the brink of total insurrection. On the other hand, the introduction of CSOK is extremely successful, since it has been requested by 117 thousand families. This means about half a million people, 486 thousand people, helping 282,000 children to find a new home. In total, the Hungarian families required CSOK for almost HUF 353 billion, and the families using this construction decided to undertake 55 thousand additional children. This should be compared with the number of children born in a year of approximately less than 90,000 children, and the families who took the CSOK committed to the birth of 55,000 additional children in the coming years. In addition, the Family Protection Action Plan introduced a new measure, which I will return to in a minute. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2019-11-04-203	Thank you very much. Support for car shopping, baby shower credit or village CSOK also supports the localisation of rural people and at the same time increases the preservation of villages. In the media, the criticisms that say that these measures have not fulfilled their expectations, I think that they are unfounded, because it is only a few months from their departure, and it takes at least nine months for a child to be born normally, so I think that such patience would certainly deserve these measures, and then we will see. But I believe that these are positive in any case and are for the benefit of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-205	Thank you very much. So since 1 July, every family who has a second child can expect the state to pay a million HUF out of their mortgage debt. If the third child is born, they will be eligible for HUF 4 million and will be eligible for another HUF 1 million per additional child. We can also see well in the field of housing what is the policy of Balliberal Leadership and what is the policy of Fidesz-KDNP. We support the construction of the own house and the purchase of own property for families, while from the left before 2010 we saw the introduction of the property tax, which was destroyed by the Constitutional Court, and as soon as they came to power in the capital, they immediately decide to introduce a property tax. While we, Fidesz-KDNP, want to broaden the possibilities of home creation for everyone, with state support, with a 10-million-dollar CSOK, ten-million-dollar baby shower support, the left wants to punish those who have real estate by attempting to introduce various types of real estate taxes. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-206	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[Gergely Farkas nodds to accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, How credible is government policy? That is what our question is, and in relation to our questions under this title, my fellow Members and I usually prove to you how untrue you are, how uncoordinated you are with your communication and actions. I'd like to say the opposite. On this subject, which I would like to talk about, it must be said that there is consistency between your thoughts and your actions. This topic is nothing more than the subject of emigration. Emigration, which is one of the most serious problems of our country, is a problem that you are constantly trying to base on. You keep denying the size of this problem, trying to reassure us and all those who bring it up, but there are countries that are worse off than we are. You know, it's a metaphor when there's a terminal patient who, say, has six months left of his life, and they're trying to reassure him not to worry, because there's a patient who only has three months to live. That's what your Bagatellizing is worth, and that's what they're trying to cover up. And why am I telling you they're authentic? Allow me to quote your representative of Jászberény, Anikó Szatmári, who, at a moment's notice, had a fit of honesty, if I may say so, and gave me the idea that you are acting on the basis of your actions with regard to emigrated young people. He wrote, and I quote it literally: "The majority of young people living abroad consider it a party and live on pot cookies. She also said that in Hungary there is sour cream on the bottom compared to foreign conditions, but you young people do not see it. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, What is your opinion on this, and when will you finally realize that emigration is one of the serious problems of our country, and start to deal with this issue accordingly? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-208	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-11-04-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for making a statement by a completely unknown Fidesz, perhaps Congresswoman. [[György Szilágyi: Politician! Fidesz politician!]] , he considers his statement more important than the related data of the HCSO.
u2019-11-04-210	Congressman!
u2019-11-04-211	I probably have a better opinion of the governing parties than you do, but in statistical matters, I suggest that the data of the KSH should not be completely excluded from your orientation. KSH publishes clear data every year on emigration and to use an accurate concept of working abroad. After all, let us be honest, when we became a member of the European Union in 2004, we knew precisely that this meant freedom of employment at the latest after a seven-year transitional period, and I think that the experience of working abroad or of teaching in itself is positive. I think it is better for someone to decide to return to Hungary afterwards. But I would like to point out two facts to you, Member: last year was the second year, when more people came home to Hungary than they had to work outside of Hungary, this is clear from the KSH data. The second is that Hungary is the first or second of the Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 and beyond, so the emigration is the smallest. So if you judge the government's activities according to how many people work in other countries of the European Union, then from 13 countries Hungary has either the best or the second best government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-04-212	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2019-11-04-213	I am truly surprised, Your Honour, with this answer. Because, in this situation, you should have said two things, and then you could have said anything about the statistics. You should have told me that you and your government, the Fidesz people present, disagree with that statement. You didn't tell me that, nor did you do that by apologizing to hundreds of thousands of young people who have been displaced abroad because of your activities and who have left their loved ones, their families, their country because they can't move from low wages to two, because you, in your system, are not about talent, diligence, but about fidesz relationships. You should have started by apologizing and stating that you disagree with that statement. I regret your failure to do so, and you have offended hundreds of thousands of our compatriots, and you have joined this shameful sentence that your Jászberény Fidesz MEP has said. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-214	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-11-04-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, For the time being, I do not wish to hear from you about the statements of the Members of the Fidesz. The government's position has always been clear about working in the European Union. We have joined the European Union to ensure that all freedoms, all four freedoms, are also granted to Hungarian citizens. That's right. In the first place, I think that we should not in any way underestimate those who leave Hungary for any reason, especially if they do so for work purposes. However, your statements are not factually true, and the second year was last year when more people came home than the ones they left. Very few countries in the European Union can say this about themselves that joined in 2004 or beyond, probably none outside the Czech Republic. It is also a fact that today Hungarian citizens in Hungary are doing much more work or, if you like, doing much less work in other Member States of the European Union than they did in the 13 countries that joined after 2004. [[19.40]] So what I can tell you is that there's no such thing as untruths, of course. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] There is no reason why you should be able to interpret Fidesz representatives' statements. [[The president's ringing again.]] But the government's position is clear: we want everyone to get along in their homeland. [[Sounds from Jobbik's ranks: Oh! Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-216	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: I accept.]] Yes, you have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-04-217	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Looks like you're trying to make a significant list of possible GP tests pay. The government is T/7847. ) submitted a legislative proposal on the amendment of certain health legislation for harmonisation purposes. This proposal provides for the possibility for a service provider to request non-public service from another service provider and to use the time reservation service in this context. In Hungarian, this means that the general physician providing the public-funded care can send the patient to a paid private hospital for examination, and even the patients arriving to it can make an appointment to pay the patient's costs. We can say, of course, that this will require the patient's consent, but you also know that a patient is always in an emergency situation. On this basis, I ask Mr Secretary of State, they really want to create the possibility that the general doctor will send his patients to a private hospital to pay for free care. Is this really how you want to move patients from public-funded public care to paid private care? What will be the basis for deciding whether to pay for a patient who comes to a family doctor or to receive a public-funded study? What is the purpose of this regulation, after all? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-04-218	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-04-219	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I could also say that I'm in a simple situation because I can answer with one word: no. So there's no purpose for the government like what you've told me here. I knew a government whose purpose was this: the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Alliance of Free Democrats created this conglomerate, this government. They introduced a visitation fee and a hospital allowance. In order to keep as many patients away from health care as possible, paying health care was introduced so as to reduce the cost of health care and to withdraw funds from health care. On the other hand, we are now spending HUF 770 billion more on health in the budget adopted next year than in the last budget adopted by you in 2010. We guarantee people free public health care. That's exactly why we've renovated a lot of hospitals in the countryside, so we've renovated dozens of clinics, built more than 20 new outpatient clinics, in which free care is available, and besides, we've renovated over a hundred rescue stations, and we've built about 30 new rescue stations. Our goal remains, as opposed to you, to ensure that public-funded care and private care are well separated. Private care should preferably be in a separate building, completely separated by the person who works there, the working time should be completely separated from that if that doctor is also working in a public institution. So everything should be well separated, well separated, distinguishable, not put a patient in a position to go to a public health institution, say, a hospital, and meet with public-funded care at one door, meet with a paid service at the other door, or meet with public-funded free care in the morning, and meet with a paid private care in the afternoon. We'd separate them. On the other hand, you signed one of those multi-party statements to prepare the father of the visitation fee. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and in its wording, together with the Two-Dagger Dog Party, which carries exactly the risk of expanding paying health care to the detriment of public health. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2019-11-04-221	I am not reassured by your reply, Mr Secretary of State, because this proposal is inexactly formulated and is not aligned with the relevant health legislation. Obviously, this negligence raises the suspicion that this is not a coincidence, but a deliberate one. So I think it is essential to clarify the conditions under which a GP can send a patient to a private hospital. I think that 85 percent of the permanently unfilled GP and Dentist districts have become vacant under the administration of Fidesz, so I believe in every way that you have made health care payable, since private drug spending per capita is now overstated. I suggest we not add to the mistakes we've made so far with another crime. I would very much ask you to reconsider this proposal, because paying for the tests ordered by GPs is unacceptable.
u2019-11-04-222	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-11-04-223	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Those who tried to do this, to privatise health, and only a referendum could stop it, were exactly you when people made it clear on 5 December 2004, because of dual citizenship, we remember the referendum that we cannot privatise in health care, however much you wanted it to be. [[Lajos Rig: MediSyst!]] We remember Hospitalist and other matters, from which national affairs have been brought together in support of your governance, and we remember the referendum on the visitation fee when only a referendum could stop you from fully transferring to paid health care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What you're talking about is your intention. What you are talking about, you have adopted legislative proposals here in Parliament, when we remember János Kóka, party president, congratulated us here in Parliament with two kisses, in this Chamber, Minister Ágnes Horváth, on how cleverly she has eluded the various proposals on medical privatisation, not to mention, hospital safes and other scandalous matters. You've always done these things. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We have always wanted to clarify these affairs, and we continue to do so. Please don't make this bill false. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-04-224	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 7:47 p.m. We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work by negotiating proposals for a series of applications for inclusion. The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and closure of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line reconstruction project, H/7018. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes. I'm asking you to understand, there were a lot more Members on my list, and I had to choose them. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-225	Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Just to make it clear what this proposal for a resolution is about, which we have presented to Parliament, and which we are asking for your support to include in the series of articles, is to stop a project that, together with everything, will cost the Hungarian taxpayers nearly a thousand billion HUF. A renovation, the renovation of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which cannot be justified at any level from the point of view of Hungarian interests. We would like to stop a project that will pay Lőrinc Mészáros's companies HUF 300 billion if we do not stop this project. Today we talked about the program of the Hungarian villages. We know that next year there will be only HUF 50 billion for the development of the entire Hungarian lower road network within the framework of the Hungarian villages. Let's compare this thousand billion HUF project, which is equivalent to treason! What's this about? Let's go over it in more detail. It has already been mentioned that in 2017 this project was justified by the Hungarian Government's fact that this investment will create a transport infrastructure, with this renovation that will enable the port of Pyreus to be reached from the point of view of rail transport. [[19.50]] At the same time, we have recently seen the Hungarian government buy an area in the port of Trieste, which competes with the port of Pyreus, with the aim of building a logistics base or port there, and then Minister Szijjártó made the very clear statement that a port in Trieste will satisfy all the needs of domestic companies. So, in fact, the government has admitted that this big project is completely incomprehensible and pointless. We also know that according to experts, this project will cost a thousand billion HUF, together with additional elements and the interest on the brutal size of Chinese loan, and if we look at the extent of the renovation of this stage, this would be the most expensive domestic rail investment ever, broken down by the distance to which it relates. So the experts are incomprehensible to the budget, it is simply unjustified and incomprehensible what is costing a thousand billion forints in this project. It should also be added, and the experts have also pointed out that even if this renovation were to take place, the construction of the Hungarian section or the renovation of that railway section between Budapest and Belgrade, even though only a fraction of the entire potential Balkan transport route, a very small part of it will be able to carry out such a transport task. And the most important problem and the most important argument that this project must be stopped is that this, I repeat, will cost the Hungarian taxpayers a thousand billion forints, so that no guarantee, no economic calculation will support this. So the Hungarian government did not demonstrate how this project could be repaid. In this context, we can also see other news, such as a new event concerning the potential future entire Balkan transport route, a new decision showing that there is no real, relevant transport demand here, since not so long ago a decision was taken on the Belgrade-Skopje-Szaloniki railway line to stop passenger transport, simply because there was no interest, so this rail transport route was not exploited. So we claim that this project must be stopped immediately, and this thousand billion HUF, this is to be used for the renovation of the extremely degraded rural transport infrastructure, especially in Hungary. That is why I am asking for the support of my fellow Members and, therefore, of the factions, so that we can put this proposal for a resolution on the agenda and debate it in plenary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-226	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, It is now possible for one representative to speak for two minutes per group of Members. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-04-227	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This insane suggestion... I don't mean the LMP, I'm sorry. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I'm talking about the fidesz idea itself. This inexplicable project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway could be separated from the point of view of transport policy, but I will take the lousy teaching of the Secretary of State of Tállai that you should not take the profession. It can be separated from an economic and social point of view. Well, let's check it out. This thousand billion forints, in which all this would cost Hungarian society if we broke it down one by one, from an infant to an old man, would bring another 100 thousand forints of debt to every Hungarian man. The government wants this Chinese loan to pay or pay for the Chinese expansion that can be observed, because if we look at trade between the two countries, we can see that this amounts to about $9 billion a year. The problem now is that two thirds of this comes from China, one third of which goes there from us, so our commercial negative is astonishingly large, about HUF 800 billion and 1000 billion annually. Why this should be further increased, and if this does not increase, where are the opposite impact assessments, it is a very good question. We have not met such things, honourable Members, which is why Jobbik supports this proposal for a decision of the LMP. This madness must be stopped fast. Who's gonna get rich out of all this? National cashier, Opus company, and RM International Zrt. I'm trying to translate that RM, I'm fucking rich, he might have said Ripper, and that's what he might have named his company after. I don't know, but I'm pretty sure we shouldn't increase this man any more, this money would be much, much better off in a thousand other places. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-228	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-229	Mr President, If there is a case in Parliament that can be clearly assessed from the point of view of the common good, then this railway construction is just such a case. It is quite obvious that there is no argument for the construction of the Belgrade-Budapest superrail that meets any public goal. This railway construction clearly causes significant environmental damage, draining funds from the otherwise horribly poor Hungarian railway network. As we have learned, there is one satisfied passenger, Secretary General Major [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But everyone else who has traveled by rail has clearly seen the terrible state of the railway network. Let me add one more aspect. What is the purpose of this railway construction? It is to make it easier for cheap Chinese dumping products to enter the EU market. We are building a railway to make it easier for Chinese-made goods to compete on the European Union market, so that they can push out European and Hungarian-made goods. We are building a beachhead for China by doing this in a financial arrangement, or the government is doing it, which, in addition, we are paying the cost of everything in a financial arrangement. Hungarian taxpayers pay for Chinese reservation in the European Union, Hungarian taxpayers pay for the loss of Hungarian jobs due to the influx of Chinese goods. How do you say it? It is very difficult to imagine a more patriotic attitude or to describe it more accurately. But of course, we know that there will be people who will be interested in this. For example, the Orbán family, who will deliver crushed stones to this railway, can be sure of that. This is an unacceptable and shameful project, and that is the least we can do here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-230	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2019-11-04-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It can be clearly stated about this project that it is in the interest of China and not in the interests of Hungary. Remember that when the project started, the government calculated that it would cost HUF 472 billion, 85 percent of which will be secured from Chinese credit, and 15 percent will be the Hungarian part. We already know that experts say that this investment is not going to cost HUF 472 billion, but is expected to reach a thousand billion. An interesting question is how the doubling will happen. Will 85 percent of that be covered by expensive Chinese credit, or will the other HUF 500-1000 billion suddenly fall into the neck of Hungarian citizens? In fact, it is a stretch of 166 kilometres, and it was calculated that if you look at the return, it would take about 2,400 years to make this investment pay, and if you look at the unit cost of one kilometer, that is almost HUF 3 billion, which is an irretrievable amount, it is simply unacceptable. According to the information leaked, we also know that the Chinese have a significant role to play in the construction, and that the Chinese interest can also be seen here. In fact, the Chinese also want Hungarian locomotives and cars not to be on the line, but their locomotives and their cars. In this way, however, we see that the Hungarian economy has no use for it, but it is really of no use. Kára may, however, because the line goes through national parks, expropriations are needed, and the debt of over a thousand billion is to be paid by Hungarian citizens. Please support this series of articles.
u2019-11-04-232	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-04-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There is a reason why LMP has prepared a proposal for a decision on this issue. In any case, I would suggest that we consider it a series of subjects. Properly, clearly, colleagues have told us how much danger this type of investment poses. I have to say that when we do not have enough resources for the Hungarian railway to make it right, I think that we should not be dealing with another big investment, by the way. [[20.00]] So I definitely think that it is necessary to think again that, in this form, this is not the way to do it, hurting Hungarian citizens, we must not continue. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-234	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak for the factions. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to ask Mr Group Leader if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-11-04-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank my fellow Members very much for their supporting contributions. I think it is no coincidence that there is a very strong consensus between opposition parties on this matter. It is symbolic that, during the debate on such an important issue, there is only one Fidesz Member in the room, and I am sorry that he did not think that he should be involved in this project. I would like to reiterate once again: the so-called national government plans to spend HUF 50 billion in the next year's budget for the renovation of rural infrastructure, the rural lower road network. This means, in particular, the renovation of 450 kilometers of roads, while there are 17,000 kilometres of roads in Hungary today, which require immediate intervention. On the other hand, the Hungarian government wants to spend a thousand billion forints on this madness. I agree with my fellow Member Ander, that is indeed the only way that this project can be apostulated is that it is insane. And indeed, it serves only Chinese interests and the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros' companies. They'd have a share of 300 billion forints. And if this is such a big deal for the Chinese, the question arises why the Chinese aren't building this project on a market basis. I think it is quite clear what we should do in this situation. The project must be stopped immediately, and if opposition speeches or the proposal of the LMP did not convince my pro-government fellow Members, then I suggest that they pay attention to their political partners and their political allies, as Italian politicians of the League have also made it quite clear that it is pointless to invest money in transporting the Balkan route, as the Chinese will increasingly consider the port of Trieste as a docking centre in terms of transport tasks in Central Europe, and the Chinese will develop more and more in the port of Trieste. I feel that construction, this project, will be very useful for Chinese companies, will gain a lot of EU reference work, but they will not be able to use this line. So I would very much ask that you support the inclusion of this proposal in the series tomorrow. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-236	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide, by reference to the Convention on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation, to terminate the contracts concluded by the Government in connection with the establishment of a new block 5-6 of the Paks Power Plant, H/7068. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-237	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, If we have just said that we are discussing an extremely important matter, then I think we can say that it is even more important than this presentation. We were just talking about a $1,000 billion Chinese project, and we're talking about a $4,000 billion project in a low voice, the issue of Paks enlargement. We know precisely that this project came to the Russians by lying to the Hungarian government that only the Russians would be able to implement this project. It has now been revealed that this has proved to be a lie, as the Russians have not been able to deliver plans according to European Union and Hungarian standards in terms of the main elements to date. In this way, the authorisation procedure, the authorisation procedure that should have been completed long ago, could not have started. At the beginning of summer, János Süli had a hearing in the Committee on Sustainable Development, and I asked the Minister what he expected when the Russians would be able to perform the tasks set out in the treaties and when the authorisation procedure will be launched for this, I repeat, $4,000 billion project. Then Minister János Süli replied with a very unbelievable sincerity that he had no idea. And he also said what was scary is that the Russians are studying the domestic technical environment. The Russians who received this project again without a tender because the Hungarian government thinks they are the only ones who can implement this project. It is quite clear that it was a lie that this kind of electricity could be used to repay this Russian giga loan, since the loan must be repaid when these power plants or these new blocks are not yet ready. It was also a lie, and the argument is that the Danube water will be sufficient to cool the current and future blocks, since we can see that in a strong context with climate change, the current blocks will not be enough to cool during the summer period. It was also a lie and a very, very serious and dangerous lie on the part of the government that nuclear power would be predictable and safe, because if we just looked at the events of the past few weeks or this year, it would be difficult to count the cases where one or another block of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant had to be stopped in connection with various unforeseen problems. So you can see that the nuclear power plant is neither predictable nor safe. We know that, fortunately, accidents rarely happen, but when they happen, they have an unpredictable consequence, and we all know that, I think. And a very, very serious problem with the expansion of Paks, which, in addition to social and economic issues, raises moral issues, because nowhere in the world has the management of high-activity nuclear waste and spent fuel, i.e. the final treatment of nuclear waste. This is neither the technology side, nor the financing side, nor the proper location choice, which has been solved anywhere in the world. No permanent nuclear cemetery for the storage of high-activity nuclear waste has been built anywhere. We know that they are experimenting on the same site in Hungary, a few kilometers from the western borders of Pécs, in the area of Boda, and this project has consumed more than 10 billion forints so far, it is also built on lies and deception of the people living there. Four years ago Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally promised in Pécs that no nuclear cemetery could be built without the approval of the Pécs and the inhabitants of the region. Shortly after this Prime Minister's promise, the government, the Fidesz majority of the Parliament, amended the nuclear law so that there is no legal possibility for the affected city, small towns or settlements. In Hungarian, in the form of a dictatorship, contrary to the earlier Prime Minister's statement, the decision was made to build this particular nuclear cemetery somewhere in this particular clay stone formation. In connection with this project, it should also be said that we have good reason to believe that there has been a kind of background agreement between Hungary and its Russian partner to link the Paks expansion project with the case of building a nuclear cemetery and plans to open a possible new uranium mine in Pécs. And the frightening reality of this concern is also demonstrated by the fact that this week, 6-7th in Hungary, the company Rosatom is holding a very important conference in Pécs, a conference that has been held in South Africa and Moscow. And we believe that this is proof of the existence of this particular pact, this background agreement, and in this way the Hungarian government is fully aware of the way in which it betrays Hungarian interests. We say that this project needs to be stopped, and instead we need to develop a procedure, a strategy that will gradually lead to the use of nuclear energy and provide as much space as possible for renewable energies. I think that on this issue, we need to separate ourselves from the use of nuclear energy and this project, the project launched in this way by the Paks enlargement. I ask my fellow Members to give me the opportunity to debate, to support the inclusion of this proposal in plenary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-238	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-239	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The LMP's proposal for a decision contains a number of well-founded legitimate objections, such as the settlement of disputes, the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties are incomplete, and we all know what unjustified secrecy has been around this entire contract. I myself and my colleague Lajos Kepli have already presented a proposal in February 2014 to set up an ad hoc committee to oversee this investment. At the same time, in addition to criticism, we must ask the following question. If we drive nuclear energy out of Hungary and Mr. Group Leader has left no doubt that this is happening, then how can this be replaced? [[20.10]] We know we're not so attached to this Russian contract, but we need to be clear that if we try a brand-new one instead, it won't be born by 2040. So it is to be expected that nuclear energy will be emitted in Hungary in the early 2030s. We would very much support and support green energy, but it must be noted that it is not able to replace Paks, which produces 50% of the energy, but can only do fraction. And it's important to us for energy security, we're already 32 percent imported. Consider the German example. What were they forced to do? Even though they have enormous renewable capacity, coal power plants are being forced. Obviously, we don't want that. Moreover, Jobbik is very committed to meeting the climate protection goals, and we believe that Hungary can do this only together with the use of nuclear energy. By the way, it would be justified to establish a new national energy strategy, which was born in 2012, and to see the energy mix further away next year. On this basis, the Jobbik fraction has decided to abstain from voting. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-240	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-241	Mr President, Dear House, I believe that I take an intermediate position between the two speakers before me because, on one side, I share to a large extent the concerns of Mr Lóránt Keresztes and the LMP concerning this one specific investment, but I agree with the Member and the Jobbik representatives that it is not enough to say no to this investment in Paks, but also to say what we want instead. But I think that we can be sure of one thing: we do not want to make a corrupt, otherwise unindebted Paks investment in the country; we do not want to see an otherwise indisputable solution from a number of points of view and security; we do not want this investment to be done in a corrupt way, as can be expected from today's information, and most importantly, we do not want to commit to a country with no social debate, no professional debate where we do not know the technical and financial details. Therefore, I also urge Jobbik to review its position, to support the proposal being put on the agenda, because this is what we are talking about, to put this proposal on the agenda, and there will be a way to hold that professional debate, or to start the professional debate that is necessary. The Democratic Coalition therefore supports this proposal. We do not agree on everything, especially what is stated in the explanatory memorandum, but we want informed decisions to be taken on the future of the country on the basis of a sound energy strategy, which requires that this Treaty be terminated first, and that we should hold this debate in Parliament.
u2019-11-04-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-04-243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, In any case, we support the LMP's application for a series of items. I think this is a great opportunity for the government to think about how seriously it takes the climate strategy. So, in this case, it is regrettable that there is no minister or secretary of state here who would like to know what we think about this, by the way. With all due respect, I would also like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, that the Jobbik think about this so that there can be a debate on this, because this is precisely what this request is about, so that it is absolutely possible to talk about it between the walls of the Parliament. It is clear that there are very clear reasons on the part of the LMP why this contract should be terminated. But in any case, I think it would be important for the government to be serious about climate protection, and today Bence Rétvári replied that when they are doing something right now, I am thinking about electric cars, how positive that is. I think that this is definitely a matter in which it would be worth reconsidering how this could be done with a normal social debate, not with a national consultation, because we know exactly how they work, but with a fair social debate. The primary condition of this is that it is possible to argue about it here in Parliament, which is why the MSZP fraction supports it.
u2019-11-04-244	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the LMP Group.
u2019-11-04-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With regard to Jobbik's comment, I would like to say here, which is reflected in this debate, and, yes, in the voice of my better fellow Member, that, unfortunately, Hungary has never been given the opportunity to conduct the debate on why nuclear energy is needed and why it should not be. For decades, the Hungarian people have tried to sink into their heads that nuclear energy is clean, cheap and safe. We didn't have a debate about why we didn't. Paks II. The moral question is that high-activity waste has tens of thousands of years of degradation and there is no safe solution. I ask how parents love their kids when they say I'm living really well right now, but you're gonna solve that problem. So there are very, very serious problems here. And it's also not true that nuclear energy is cheap. That's not true, because even with energy, you have to put the cost of the entire life cycle into it. They're basically highlighting the operating costs here, but what it cost isn't built into... don't nod, look into it. It's not gonna work! [[Zoltán Balczó: I'm not nodding, I'm shaking my head!]] The costs of disposal of high-activity waste are not included. So basically nuclear power isn't cheap. The world is before an election. More and more forces are being invested in finding the possibility to store solar energy. [[Zoltán Balczó: I don't have it!]] And they're gonna find it. [[Zoltán Balczó: Then put it back!]] Five, ten, fifteen years. However, nuclear energy: Paks II and I are committed to a technology that is risky. It's not safe today. You can blow up a nuclear power plant at any time during a period of terrorism.
u2019-11-04-246	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. [[Zoltán Balczó: I'd like to speak, but I can't.]] I would like to ask Mr. Group Leader if he would like to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the speeches, as well as for the speeches which are in dispute with our presentation. There's one thing you can say that's a little personal. I'm from Pécs, and I mentioned that Pécs is going to have this particular conference of my Rosatom. The title of this conference is AtomÖko, and it is about trying to demonstrate the link between the use of nuclear energy and sustainability. The choice of location is symbolic, because perhaps my fellow Members know that there was previously uranium mining activity on the border of Pécs, and anyone who lives there knows exactly what brutal environmental destruction this activity involved. So it was an environmental destruction that could never be covered. So far, the recultivation of this former uranium mining has consumed 30 billion forints of public money, and this is a never-ending task. So to protect the Pécs water base, you have to spend hundreds of millions a year on this. Anyone who comes and looks around, sees these landscape wounds, sees this brutal environmental destruction, knows exactly that nuclear power is not pure energy. One more thing: regardless of whether someone is supporting nuclear energy or not, I think that there may be consensus that this treaty, which the Hungarian government has concluded with the Russian party, is not suitable for, at least what we have learned from it, according to experts, it is not suitable to implement this project, so build a nuclear power plant on this basis. The Russian party was found not to be technically capable of producing appropriate plans according to Hungarian standards and EU standards. This could also have been revealed in Finland, it is already clear in a similar project, and it is also public in the press that they simply cannot solve this task. It is also quite clear that there is a huge risk of corruption in this $4,000 billion project. It is also clear that the Hungarian public does not support this project. At the same time, the arguments you have made, the points you have made, Mr President, are very important. I also ask you to give us the opportunity to discuss this in the Hungarian Parliament, what is the alternative to this big project. [[Zoltán Balczó, pointing to Dr. Károly Becsó: Mr. Fideszes, make a statement.]] Please support it so that it can be put on the agenda so that the debate can be held. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decision will take place on tomorrow's sitting. [[20.20]]
u2019-11-04-249	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Democratic Coalition has proposed that the Parliament decide on the human and minority rights and the organisations threatening them, H/6417. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, in a five-minute time frame, to the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-250	Thank you very much. Dear House, The proposal was presented in the spring, when we were marching on the beautiful Turkszentmiklós called Mi Hazank. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Fidesz-chick!]] And he threatened the Roma population who lived there, because it was our fundamental intention and it was also our intention to make it clear today: although we are debating a lot of things in the Hungarian Parliament, we agree that we condemn the use of force against minorities, against any minority, and we condemn any attempt to intimidate any group of our compatriots in some way. Unfortunately, our proposal came before the committee only in September, or more precisely at the beginning of October, but actually today is more relevant than it was then, since on 23 October we saw again that the same group or another group, I do not agree with these organisations, let alone with police support, but with police marching down and down the streets of Budapest, could disturb opposition events or have damaged a place of entertainment. It is quite clear that we in this House have different views on certain matters. We think differently about the rights of the LGBTQ people, we think differently about how far we should go in this, we think differently about what good means are, what are the good solutions, we think differently about what kind of church policy should be pursued, but I am sure that we agree on one thing on both sides of the Parliament and on all its parties: marching, intimidation, violence is not the solution to these problems. At the committee meeting, our fellow Members, Fidesz, said that this is actually settled by the Fundamental Law. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that politics is not only about the legislative framework, but also about gestures. On the one hand, no matter what we think, it is another issue of debate that the police have a flexible and specific interpretation of these legislative frameworks. If you are instructed to intervene against an extremist group, you will intervene if you are instructed not to intervene, then you do not seem to intervene, but this is irrelevant in this respect, and the assessment of the professionalism of the police's work is part of another debate. However, we can all agree that the gesture is important, it is important that we say it together in Parliament, so that no one in this country has to live in fear, no one has to endure persecution because of their origin, colour, preferences or fear of violence. That's what we're proposing right now. This proposal is deliberately very moderate in these matters, because we have tried to find the minimum that we believe is acceptable to Parliament as a whole. This does not impose any additional burden on Parliament or the government, no budgetary impact, no new legislation. This is an important gesture, but a gesture in which we sincerely believe that if this is done by Parliament, it means support, relief, security for many of our countrymen, and I believe that this is in the interests and intentions of all parliamentary sides. That is why I ask that you all support the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-11-04-251	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-04-252	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian Socialist Party's faction supports the subject series. Indeed, in this country, it is not in the same place that we are not measured in the same way. I am indeed surprised that, on the last occasion, Mi Hazak Movement was able to march loosely and, in fact, by announcing that it would like to establish a paramilitary organisation in the name of the National Legion, I believe that in the rule of law, legitimate violence is an exclusive and strictly regulated state monopoly, and I believe that the association has not yet been formally established, but is already trying to limit the fundamental rights of others. That is why I think it is extremely important, regardless of who belongs to a minority or who does not, that my fellow Member Gergely Arató also spoke about LGBTQ. We want security and peace in this country, and that's not what it meant to us at all. I am very sorry that the committee voted out of this proposal, but let us give it a chance, perhaps now again, in particular, that there have not been one, not two, of these cases in the past period, that we can talk about this within the walls of Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-253	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-254	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, This proposal, this proposal for a decision, sets out principles, puts the vote in favour of values which, of course, I believe are to be supported and supported by everyone. The LMP will, of course, support the inclusion on the agenda, and we hope that this will be on the agenda, and then we will also support its adoption. This may indeed be important as such a symbolic stand, which the Member expressed on his representative's behalf. Obviously, it must be said that it is not acceptable for such paramilitary or paramilitary organisations to wander the streets in Hungary, organisations that have been declared by others, to be intimidated by certain groups. At the same time, it must also be said that this is a symbolic step and an important step, that it is necessary to go beyond that, and that it is the responsibility of the Hungarian State to take action at all times against this type of activity. Despite this, of course, we consider this to be an important and welcome proposal, and we will also support the fact that we can see that this is the name of Mi Hazánk, we can say that such a government background project is likely to come to an end. It is very clear from the political news that this project no longer serves the interests of the government, so let us say this: it will probably lead it out of Hungarian public life. Nevertheless, I think it is extremely important in this respect that this matter should be put on the agenda. Let us talk about it and, of course, if the proposal goes that far, let us also support it in plenary. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-255	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Congressman Gergely Arató to answer. [[On the sign of Gergely Harvesto:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-256	Thank you very much. I'd like to say very briefly. I would like to thank the MSZP and LMP fractions for standing behind this case and for understanding the importance of this. I hope that tomorrow in the vote we will be able to prove together, all the factions of the Parliament, that we can be left-wing or right-wing, conservative or liberal, but we are basically patriots, and there are cases that we can join together, and that all our countrymen, all Hungarians, can live in peace, tranquility, free from violence and without threats. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-04-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2011 CCII on the use of the coat of arms and flag of Hungary and on the state awards. T/7523. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First I give the floor to the author, within a five-minute time frame. Mr János Bencsik will take the floor. Here you go. [[20.30]]
u2019-11-04-258	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2011 CII in front of us. Laws specify, among other things, the form in which the various State medals are bestowed and judged, but the fact that these medals can be withdrawn exactly when, in what case, the law does not decide or deal with them. We believe that the conditions for withdrawal should be regulated in the same way as the award of this legislation. My colleague György Szilágyi and I have also tabled amendments to this law because we would like to see precisely defined conditions for the withdrawal of medals and fees. I would like to point out that Jobbik has already submitted a bill on this, but the committee responsible has not included this in a series of subjects, just as it has not now. By the way, the sad case of the initiative is that in September the judgment that led the former director of the children's home in Bicske, János Vásárhelyi, to a final sentence of 8 years in prison, after it was found that he continued to commit sexual violence and sexual abuse at the expense of children in his institution. János Vásárhelyi also received the Hungarian Bronze Cross of Merit in 2016, but because of the lack of regulation, he can still keep this medal, and no one has asked him to do so to this day, and if anyone would like it back, there is no possibility of doing so, as the legal conditions of this do not exist. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this legislative deficiency has been acknowledged by the President of the Republic himself. János Áder said to ask for the 168 Hours Weekly, that the 2011 CII. under law, the President of the Republic will donate Hungary's state medals to the presentation of the Prime Minister. Under the current rules, there is no way to withdraw a state medal. On this basis, we believe that our current proposal would regulate the fact that certain beneficiaries are morally, morally unfit to pay this fee. We believe that in order to restore the moral integrity of Hungarian society, its moral authority, these fees must be withdrawn. At the same time, our conviction, and perhaps this is our strongest argument, that it brings shame on the Hungarian state, shame on the Hungarian nation, and shame on people who, by the way, have achieved outstanding results in the fields of culture, science and sport based on their own talents, abilities, knowledge and diligence, that these people must share these awards with common criminals. We trust that this suggestion will be able to... Although the assumption may be a little naive, yet we are confident that this is a matter in which we may be able to establish a common position aside from the differences in party politics, the different political affiliations. Although the vote of the committee and the empty pro-government benches that are in front of us do not give rise to much confidence, I am asking you to consider this legislative proposal, discuss it, and decide to amend it. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-04-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In any case, I think it is entirely legitimate to suggest that those who have received a state medal and have behaved inadequately, or are very precise about the fact that the person who has been recognised has been convicted of a deliberate crime by the court.... But in any case, I think that these medals have a weight, and those who receive this medal are obviously getting it for a reason. So I think these are prestigious medals. I do believe that, unfortunately, if a person is involved in a situation in which he can commit a crime, this decision is clearly not regulated by this decision, so the Hungarian Socialist Party Group will certainly support this initiative. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-261	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition.
u2019-11-04-262	Mr President, I don't want to analyze the bill for a long time. All I would like to say on behalf of the Democratic Coalition is that this is a real problem. The proposed legal solution raises questions. This legislation must be designed so as not to become a political toy for this type of medal withdrawal. But at this parliamentary stage, it will be possible to work together to improve this bill. We are certainly in favour of putting it on the agenda. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, LMP Group.
u2019-11-04-264	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Jobbik fraction draws attention to a very important deficiency, very important unregulatedness, and that is why I should like to thank you. On behalf of the rapporteur himself, Mr Bencsik has presented a shocking case to us, which in itself would make it extremely important to put this proposal on the agenda and vote in favour of resolving this deficiency. But I think that we all know that, unfortunately, there are a long list of cases where this legislation is needed. I can definitely say that the LMP fraction will support the inclusion of this proposal in a series of subjects, and that if this proposal reaches that point, we will, of course, also support its vote. Thank you.
u2019-11-04-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, [[János Bencsik: Is there any chance that there might be a point of interest?]] Do you wish to respond? I would like to ask Mr János Bencsik that he now wishes to speak on behalf of his group for two minutes and then give an answer. [[On the sign of János Bencsik:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-266	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to thank my fellow Members for their support. And what my fellow Member Gergely Arató said may come up in every such case, whether a particular legal institution has not become the political playground for political bargaining. I believe that the wording contained in our specific amendment would mean that we would amend the incomplete legislation so that if the person who has been recognised was convicted of a deliberate offence by the court, then the recognition could be withdrawn because of indignity, I think that this is sufficiently legal around the cases in which this would be withdrawn. I do not think, by the way, that a President of the Republic may be biased towards a particular party, but in such a case, it may be less to be feared. On the other hand, our amendment of the law would be binding on the government to draw up detailed rules. So if the ruling party has any objections to this, I would like to reassure you that since you would have the opportunity to make a proposal here yourself, there is no counter-argument in this regard. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, as Lóránt Keresztes has already referred to it, it is not an individual case. We remember precisely that in 2016, in a similar case, in the case of a group rape, this was already mentioned in the case of László Kiss, the then federal captain of the swimming team, and at that time our fellow Member György Szilágyi submitted a similar amendment in 2016. Then he was voted down and swept off the table by the pro-government representatives for the reason that this crime was over. Still, we considered this a bad, unbearable justification. We hope that this time they will make a fairer and more responsible decision. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-04-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am now asking Mr János Bencsik to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-268	In fact, I would just like to reiterate very briefly that I was confident that there would be at least one explanation on the part of the governing parties here that they would support this or why they would not support it. Obviously, since there is currently a pro-government representative in the pro-government benches, this is not possible, so I thank my fellow Members for doing so and we hope that they will support the proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[20.40]]
u2019-11-04-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code to ensure effective action against animal torturers. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm infinitely sad. I made a promise to countless civil society organisations, individuals, who have contacted me since August, after I presented this bill, but the Justice Committee said that it should not be included in a series of subjects. I have made the promise that today, as the last agenda here in Parliament, I will convince my fellow members of the Government to include this motion in the series of articles in tomorrow's vote. My fellow Member, Mr Károly Becsó, is present alone in the pro-government benches. I'm sorry, on the presidential bench, both Attila Móring and President József Attila Móring, but even this is infinitely small, yet I will try. Since 2010, the Jobbik faction has submitted for the eighth time a tightening of animal torture and a modification of the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code. This amendment would involve tightening the punishment of animal torturers who, according to the usual judicial practice, have been subject to maximum suspension of prison sentence or fine in such a way as to give the court the opportunity and, in fact, the duty to assess animal torturers in serious, qualified cases not as a misdemeanor but as a criminal offence and to punish them with imprisonment. Why did we file all this? Because there is no deterrent force in the criminal code at the moment. That this sentence is many or few? We get the question several times. The answer is that all we want to do is to have the members of the government, the ministers of state and the ministers answer us here in plenary, or at least to discuss the amount of punishment that could really be a deterrent to these animal torturers. Because let's not forget that in the case of pet animals, there have been a number of events that have been reported in the national press lately. I would like to draw attention to two of these cases. One happened in Siófok during the summer, when a guest house owner announced to a dog-friendly pensioner a small pet named Muki was beaten to death by an iron pipe for barking. The other was in Balota Hállás, and it was also in the national media that a woman tied a dog behind the car. It may be argued that there is much or little of the punishment that we propose to amend the criminal code. But with respect, I would ask every faction from here, including the pro-government factions, to support tomorrow's inclusion in this series of subjects, which must be debated. We heard that Fidelitas has already told the press that they will come up with a proposal. I'm saying that we don't care about that anymore, just let something happen in this case, because since 2010, we've been fighting for nine years to change, change the criminal code. I hope that this proposal will trigger something and that the Btk will finally take place. tightening up. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-271	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A representative may now present his position in a two-minute time frame for each group of representatives. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2019-11-04-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, We would like to support the Member's proposal in any way, even because it is very clear in the general justification that, unfortunately, the number of cases of animal cruelty is increasing in our country every year. And in fact, in recent cases, the authorities are all meeting with more ruthless perpetrators. Of course, it is also a question of what causes society to become so aggressive. I think it's worth a debate someday. What I think is very important again is that a significant part of the animal torturers are really unaware of what they are doing and that they have been ordered to be punished by the law. However, I find that despite the fact that, if they receive any small punishment, they seem to be ignoring it, so, in truth, there is no consequence. I was a bit alarmed by the fact that nothing has happened since 2010, and I think that we are meeting a lot of animal friends in Hungary, and perhaps it is not a coincidence that this bill will be brought in by Jobbik not for the first time, not for the second time, but for many times. I agree that the most important thing now is that there should be legislation that could indeed be tightened up. You can argue, of course, how strict this should be, as strict as what Jobbik wants, or slightly milder than that. But the most important thing, of course, is that there should be a debate between Parliament's walls on this matter, because I think that animal-friendly people are also counting on it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. I gave the word in the order of the application so that it wouldn't cause tension for anyone. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I think that what we are seeing from the Jobbik faction is very honorable, that this proposal is being tabled over and over again, and that the resistance on the part of the governing parties is quite amazing. The fact that there is a pro-government representative in the fidesz benches does not have to discourage the congresswoman. Mr President, perhaps you will forward the arguments here to your fellow political groups, and then tomorrow you will finally support it, so that we can debate this proposal at all, although we do not have such illusions. We have experienced this ourselves, and we are not understanding the pro-government passivity. We have conducted a number of direct consultations with animal protection organisations, and based on these, we have contacted the directly affected ministries, where we have been constantly given empty promises, no action has actually been taken on this matter. We had many of these proposals within the parliamentary framework, and they ended in the same way, and they didn't really allow them into a series of subjects, so even the Fidesz MEPs refused, the Fidesz majority refused to discuss this issue. It is quite clear that this is an unsolved, extremely serious problem, which, precisely because of such scandalous and quite shocking cases, receives enormous social attention. And obviously, Hungarian society clearly expects the Hungarian Parliament to address this issue clearly and clearly. It is therefore clearly necessary to tighten the penalties. It is indeed possible to discuss how. At the same time, it should be added that tightening up penalties and tightening regulation alone will not be enough, and we need to be able to create conditions for implementation. We see that both local governments and civil society organisations have run out of resources, and cannot act effectively in these matters. So the case requires comprehensive treatment, but it would be an extremely important first step to make this amendment, to tighten the penalties, and therefore, of course, the LMP fraction will support the inclusion of the proposal in the series. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-275	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition.
u2019-11-04-276	Thank you very much. Mr President, If there's a question I don't understand why there's no consistency in this House, that's the question. There are no arguments against it, these proposals are simply voted against in the committee by our Fidesz fellow Members, while if there is something I do not believe there is a difference between the two sides of the House, it is that we consider animal protection important. The welfare of animals and the protection of animals can also be considered important from very different ideological bases. The protection of the created world must be as important to a Christian Democrat or Christian national party association as it is to a political force, either from a different approach or from an ecological approach. [[20.50]] I also understand or also experience that our fellow Members may not feel that social opinion is changing on this issue. Things or behavior related to animals that, a few decades ago, you were understanding or accepting, even if society considered disappointment, but not particularly serious, have now become unacceptable to a large part of society with the entry of new age groups. It has become a fundamental problem affecting the functioning of society as a whole. There is a matter that the legislator should answer, a matter in which society expects us to take very firm action. Sometimes I'm afraid it's going to be a vigilante, and I don't think either of us would want that. That is why I would consider it important to find an appropriate legal solution. And I agree with the Congresswoman that we can certainly argue on the scale, on the exact wording, on the precise definition of the crime. By the way, the government has experts, it has an apparatus, it could make a better amendment. But the fact that they're not willing to talk about it is ostrich policy and unsuitable. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-277	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Stummer, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before children, the axman killed his dogs one by one. They pulled a bloody iron wire off a dog's neck. He got suspended, then beat his dog to death. They dragged the dog behind the bike in Heyöbaba. His dog was tied with a ballad after the car by the woman at Balota. His dog was beaten to death by the once convicted walnut man. 38 puppies were squeezed into a single trunk in Komlo. He starved her, tied her dog to a short chain in the winter frost. A visitor hit a turtle in the zoo in Budapest. They cut off a dog's nose in Demecher. What kind of man would do something like that to a defenseless animal? And what kind of country can do such a thing with a defenseless animal? Well, a country where, when it comes to this in the house of the country, the two-thirds majority of the government is nowhere to be found, boycotts this meeting. And whenever this issue comes up, whether in this Chamber or in any committee meeting, the Fidesz Members are silent, and I believe that they are abetting. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: That's right. Shame!]] This is aiding and abetting, ladies and gentlemen. While there can be no doubt that anyone who treats a defenceless living creature in such a sadistic way is of high social interest in combating it. And there can be no doubt that anyone who does something like this will do it again. And I don't know if anyone who does that to a defenseless animal can do that to one person. That is why I am asking you in this House at this late hour, that when this issue will be decided tomorrow in the House of the country, you will support this proposal. And please here, even though I'm talking to empty walls, empty chairs, so that the Fidesz people can finally see themselves and stop doing this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-279	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author... I'll ask if there's anyone else you'd like to tell me. [[Dr. Charles Becsó reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Mrs Anita Kőrösi, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2019-11-04-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Allow us to speak to our fellow Member Becsó.]]
u2019-11-04-281	I'm sorry, I think if Congressman has such an intention, he'll signal it. Did he signal it? [[Dr. Károly Becsó: I have indicated.]] Here you go. So far on the monitor, there's been no sign of my dear fellow Member, so... [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-282	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to enter into a debate because I agree with the position of my committee, which rejected the series of articles. The only thing I would like to say for the sake of this protocol is that in 2012, when the government presented this law, which we are talking about amending, it is not just then, but now one of the most stringent animal protection laws in Europe. We can talk about things, of course, and I could go into it now, but I do not wish particularly, because I think that although there are lawyers who can better describe this, it is not necessarily the penal code that is most appropriate, but what my fellow Members have referred to, prevention, prevention, education in many respects. I understand the intention, perhaps this bill was tabled by Congressman Kepli last time. I understand the intention, and in many respects I agree with what is being said, but I would like to say that this is one of Europe's most stringent animal protection laws. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-283	Thank you very much, Congressman. So, Honourable Parliament... [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I am sorry, Congresswoman, but the house rules are binding, so you have no further opportunity to speak. I will ask Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, if she wishes to reply. (To signal:) Yes. You have the floor in two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-11-04-284	Thank you very much, and thank you to my fellow Member for giving this speech. 'Cause you've admitted there's nothing you can do about it. The fact that Europe's strictest law on animal cruelty still happens here in Hungary. I did not know exactly what speech my fellow Member Stummer was going to make, but it was terrible to even listen to this list that he has just made, and these are indeed cases that have happened. And to say that this proposal is not even worth a debate here in plenary, so that we can confront our positions before the entire Parliament, I find this outrageous, and I trust that there is one more night, that it can be considered, and that tomorrow we can decide on the subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-285	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place at tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the number of non-votes cast on Dr. Péter Polt's person has been wrongly announced. The number of votes is correct: the number of votes in favour is 134, the number of votes in favour 27, the number of votes in favour has not been cast. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this does not change the outcome of the election. In addition, 24 votes were announced in the case of non-votes, which could be a problem between 24 and 27. I ask for your understanding. Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr.Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group, applied for a post- Agenda address:.Life is more important than anything else. Life can't be measured in money with its title. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-11-04-286	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, My speech after today's agenda is about the same as I have been dealing with for a year now, and I have tried to change the perception and sentiment of the Fidesz MEPs. This is the fate of patients with SMA disease. Over the last few weeks, we've had Levente and Zente's struggle, their struggle with time and their struggle for money. We can say that within a very short period of time, a very large sum was collected for both young children. After all, they suffer from a rare disease that is SMA, and the gene therapy medicine developed for this purpose is a very expensive orphan medicine, the price of which is 700 million forints in Hungary, which the Hungarian budget and the health insurance company do not pay them. Therefore, a community donation has started, which has been unprecedented so far, but after that, I think it needs to be exemplary. But unfortunately, this vicious circle, this circulus vitiosus, did not end, for after their happiness a third child, who was only a few months old, appeared. His name is Noel, he lives in Transylvania, and his parents tried to give him this treatment. Yes, but he also has to collect 700 million forints for this treatment. [[21.00]] Unfortunately, it can't go to the end of the day, people adding up what the state has to provide. But let's talk a little bit about SMA. Many do not know that there are three types of muscle dystrophy, the most serious type is Type 1 when the patient cannot get out of bed, his respiratory muscles can also be paralyzed, he needs to breathe in bed; Type 2 is when he can sit or stand up, but is unable to walk; Number 3, the rarest is when he cannot walk. But his muscles get tired soon. There is also a therapy for these, called Spinraza, for this treatment, there are patients who receive it by NEAK, but there are about 42 patients whose treatment was refused by NEAK. Of the 40 patients, 30 adults and 10 children await recovery. We had a lot of proposals, whether it was a budget proposal or a decision proposal, but unfortunately we did not find any understanding here in the House between the fidesz benches. I think, as in the title, that human life and health cannot be expressed in money. For these patients, this would be a cost of HUF 120 million, which, I add, the other Member States of the European Union are already giving free of charge to all patients of this type. Let's talk about Dani, let's talk about Timi, let's talk about Zsoltika, and let's talk about Bálintka, whose treatment was rejected by NEAK. What about these children? What about these grown-ups? Will the government give them up? Let's add to the thesis that we don't leave anyone on the side of the road, add to the fact that we don't let anyone suffer from illness and let no one die. These patients, if they don't get this treatment, they will die. They stop breathing because they are unable to breathe, because this disease attacks their respiratory muscles. There's a very great warrior among them called Tímea. Tímea is a simple but yet wise girl, whose pen has a lot of good things. Let me at the end of my speech highlight what this disease is about with their eyes, and if you listen to this, you will immediately understand why they are fighting for this medicine. After diagnosis there are two kinds of roads; the first, the lucky ones who get this treatment, they start a new game, this game is that county is today, which yesterday is not. And there's another way, it's the worst one they're rejecting, and they don't get this treatment, they're unfortunately playing this game, whether it's county today, which was yesterday. That's the question. We are not going to let this go, we have presented a new proposal for a resolution to this House and to the committees, which will be about the government setting up a fund in which individuals or businesses can offer 1% of their taxes or extend this fund as a donation, and the government will help these patients to survive and not give up on these people, according to a certain set of criteria. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-04-287	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, DK:. The Day of All Saints and the Dead, with the title Rákospalotán. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2019-11-04-288	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that from the extended weekend, but maybe Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, almost all of us who are still in this room this late at night, we were in the cemeteries, urn cemeteries, sub-churches. This day of the All Saints, the Day of the Dead, meant for the sentient people this weekend that we thought of our loved ones, went to our loved ones, felt that the moment we were in the cemetery, we were with them. Both a believer and an unbeliever came to the cemeteries and to the memorial places where they wanted to greet those associated with it. I think that this is also a great service for those who have provided such a service in transport on these days, the transport police, the cemeteries, who work for funeral homes and businesses, to welcome people arriving in order and cleanliness. I'm also thinking about a little bit of your time when I'm going to ask for the floor after the agenda. Of course, I myself am involved in many cemeteries in Budapest, unfortunately, these four days have now fallen fortunately and did not have to be concentrated in one or two days; I have gone through my loved ones in front of a slightly more divided audience, who are in almost all parts of Budapest and even in the countryside. I would like to mention that every cemetery on the Day of All Saints, on the Day of the Dead, on these days, has a tradition of celebrating. In Rákospalota, in my constituency, there has traditionally been an outdoor service, we have been organising such events for about 15-18 years, and now it was not raining, but it was a good time on Saturday that a lot of people attended, believing and non-believing people, lit candles, are organized in a central place; I think it is worth remembering our dead in a post-scheduled comment. In Rákospalota, as in many cemeteries, I believe that people who have worked their lives through, who were valuable creators of that settlement, a family, in this country, in Rákospalota, we also have a number of prominent and renowned dead people. I would like to mention that László Budai II, a member of the gold team, who was born in Rákospalota, is also buried there. I'm gonna go see the citizens myself. I also looked up László Budai's grave, composers, singers, artists and very hardworking simple people who worked through their lives, but also the citizens of the district. At this time, I call upon the coworkers of the cemetery, and I thank the district's parliamentary representative for the preparation of the cemetery and for the fine order. It's not just public property that needs to be kept in order, I think. This is a community place where perhaps there is the greatest agreement between man and man, where there is little debate, perhaps there is no debate where we can think the same thing as humans, and we can also tear and remember our fellow humans with love. I wanted to remind them of my post- Agenda comment. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-04-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group: the situation of Pécs and the responsibility of the government. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-11-04-290	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speech after the agenda, I will talk about my home, Pécs, but I already foresee that this speech has a very serious national relevance. We know that there are a lot of cities, a lot of municipalities, or they are in a situation where, after a long period of fidesz destruction, opposition leadership is now given the opportunity, but because of the difficult situation, the settlement is clearly not going to be able to solve its problems on its own, and the government already seems to betray the people living in these settlements. On October 13, after ten years of destruction, Fidesz suffered a huge defeat; a similar defeat as in 2009 the Balliberal Coalition, the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition, which led the city in the previous period. [[21.10]] Pécs is a very symbolic location for the rule of Fidesz, because in 2009, we know that the so-called Kubatov list was first tested in real time here in the interim elections, and it was very successful from a political point of view, as they won a two-thirds victory in advance of the so-called cabin revolution in 2010. Also in this city, so-called pilot projects have been tried, so-called bookings, taking in waterworks companies and transportation companies with beatings, and then handing over the field to lawyers and ripping off different companies in this way. Well, it's had its effect too, given the interests of the investors. And this was the city where a party committee was first placed on the neck of the democratically elected mayor, and in this way, for the first time, the city was put under guardianship. The balance of the ten-year-old Fidesz city governance, I would add, with a Fidesz government in the background, has become that Pécs has the weakest economy by far from the regional, regional rural centres. Based on the per capita industrial performance, Baranya County is the last country in the country. At the same time, in terms of property tax, Pécs is a record player, and there is no such county seat anywhere where such enormous burdens would be imposed on the population. And the most mournful indicator of the ten-year-old urban destruction of Fidesz in Pécs is that in ten years, 13 thousand people left this city out of necessity. Clearly, Fidesz can't bear this defeat; already, at the time of the handover, very serious lies were made up. Quite seriously, the Member, Peter Hoppál, who is not here today, found that Fidesz had worked off the debt of 50 billion in that year or 2009 and could even produce a surplus of 7 billion. I think it is extremely important to say here that this is nothing more than an overt lie. But it is quite clear that the current situation in the city is extremely difficult, it is said that Fidesz handed it over to the now elected majority opposition assembly in bankruptcy. The city's debt is now over HUF 20 billion, and the city's budget can only be balanced with government lifelines. This city is now in the position that next to the loan of the former 15 billion in addition to the municipal debt transfer, I would add that the city's debt has increased to more than 20 billion from slutty, corruption-suspected acquisitions, and there is a payment obligation of 5,5 billion from the city to the government. And it has to be absolutely clear to everyone that this is not the responsibility of the people of Pécs. Before the election, my colleague, Krisztina Hohn and I asked the Ministry of the Interior a clear answer to the question that if the government acknowledges that this situation is not the responsibility of the people of Pécs, not the citizens of Pécs, then the government is willing to see this situation and to help Pécs take part in this debt. After the elections, we received the shocking answer that Pécs would not expect. So clearly, the Hungarian government is betraying the people of Pécs by averting its own responsibility. This is unacceptable, I think it must also be said in the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. I would add that there are system problems not only in Pécs, but also in rural cities in similar situations, which are also the responsibility of government and parliament to resolve. I would like to mention two examples: the maintenance of public transport in Pécs and in rural cities of similar size cannot be achieved on their own. So these cities will not be able to achieve this extremely important public service on their own initiative. There is a huge need for the government to do something about this situation and put the funding of urban transport on a new footing even in cases where municipal-owned companies operate transport. Another example, I would like to mention, is the situation of water utilities. Well, in the case of Pécs, I can give you a quite shocking number: in the next 15 years, a surplus of HUF 20 billion would be needed to make the most important public services work, so clean drinking water will flow from the tap and waste water will run out. A surplus of HUF 20 billion is needed. This is also a government responsibility so that this situation can be resolved. So to make it quite clear to everyone: if the Hungarian government fails Pécs, they will punish not the new elected assembly, but the people of Pécs. Similarly, this is the case in other cities in the country. And the responsibility and full political responsibility of this situation will have to be borne by the Hungarian government and the Fidesz majority. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-04-291	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda: on 4 November: in the shadow of tanks with the title Home. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-04-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, November 4, 1956, 0 hours: General Vassili Kazakov takes over the command of Soviet troops in Hungary. In the early hours of the morning, Ambassador Dalibor Soldatics informs me that Tito sends a message that the Yugoslav government will provide refuge for Imre Nagy and his associates. 4:00 a.m.: general Soviet attack on Budapest and major cities, as well as major military objects. Major Kuzma Grebennik is attacking Budapest with five divisions. Many of the Soviet troops come from the Asian part of the Soviet Union, and most of the members of this army did not know where they were, where they were, and who they were fighting. Defenders of the capital fought, although they knew that there was no hope against a strong Soviet army. Béla Király reported on the attack on the telephone to Imre Nagy in Parliament. 5 p.m. 20: Imre Nagy gives a dramatic radio speech, which was as follows: Imre Nagy speaking here, President of the Council of Ministers of the Hungarian People's Republic. At dawn today, Soviet troops launched an attack on our capital city with the obvious intention of overthrowing the legitimate Hungarian government. Our troops are in battle. The government is in position. That's what I'm telling the people of this country and the public of the world. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Shortly thereafter, on the wavelength of the Szolnok radio there will be a communication, according to which the former ministers of Imre Nagy's government formed the Hungarian Revolutionary Workers-Paraszt Government. With the help of the Soviet Union's armed forces, this government has started its fight against counter-revolution. First Ferenc Münnich presented a four-member list of governments without the name of the Prime Minister. Members of the government: Antal Apró I repeat: Antal Apró, János Kádár, István Kósa, Ferenc Münnnnich. Shortly thereafter, János Kádár, Prime Minister, reads his government's call and roster, and before 6:00 a.m., Imre Nagy calls the military delegation to Tököl, under the leadership of Minister of Defence Pál Maléter, to return on the radio. In fact, the delegation was set up for trial and the number one leaders of the Hungarian army were arrested. At 7:14 p.m., on behalf of the Imre Nagy government, the Soviet army is asked not to shoot, to avoid bloodshed, and they justified that the Russians are our friends. Why should we have an enemy if our friends are like that? 7:57 minute: Gyula Háy, writer and wife, Éva in the name of the Writer's Association, turned to the writers of the world and the leaders of spiritual life for help in four languages: Help us in Hungary, help us, help us! That was the last sign of free Kossuth radio. At 8:07, the broadcast of Hungarian Radio was interrupted during music. István Bibó, as the only representative of the legitimate Hungarian government remaining in the Parliament building, issued a manifesto in which he refused the accusation that the revolution was a fascist or anti-communist. The Imre Nagy government, seeing the terrible excess of the Soviet army, does not attempt armed resistance. The Soviets have disbanded all the troops of the Hungarian People's Army. In the countryside as well as in the capital, in order to win the revolution, smaller troops developed more serious resistance and tried to defend the Hungarian revolution. The Yugoslav ambassador, who promised the asylum of Imre Nagy, members of the government this morning, told Imre Nagy that he had to acknowledge the Kádár government. This was, of course, rejected. The most cynical event of the day was that the Soviet government, after destroying the Hungarian freedom fight with its army, protested against the bombing of Egyptian cities in the English and French governments. During the 1849 War of Independence, the Russian Tsar army defeated the Hungarian nation's war of independence, and 107 years later, he trampled the Hungarian people's war of freedom against the communist dictatorship with the tanks of the Soviet Communist army. No matter what kind of power the Russian people lived in, Hungary's history only caused tragedy. We, the Hungarian people, do not have allies in the world who protect us from interference by other powers. We must acknowledge, we can only rely on ourselves, we Hungarian people must create our freedom in order to survive from century to century. Whether we believe in the West or in the East, our hope-seeking politicians do so, but I hope that the future generation will find the strength, not beyond the borders, but within the borders of our country, for true freedom, real independence and for the creation of a fairer Hungary. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[21.20]]
u2019-11-04-293	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik Group asked for a speech with the title "I." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-04-294	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Members, they're still here. The New York Times published an article on Eastern European agricultural barons in Hungarian. This is interesting in itself, but unfortunately our country has been given a prominent role in this. So we are talking here about Central and Eastern Europe, but most of the negative comments that I can fully agree with are about Hungary. It is not common at all that this phenomenon raises its mind that such an American newspaper is dealing with our region and within our country, and also in our native language, but in this context it is particularly sad, but unfortunately it is true. I would like to present the writing of three authors here briefly through the summary of the Alphanews News Portal. How do the oligarchs and populists milk the European Union? He wrote this writing at the address. They specifically focused on the county of Fejér, but they mention that, unfortunately, these findings are equally true for a large part of the country, they look into it and show how agricultural subsidies in Hungary come to the narrow elite that I have mentioned so many times here in the walls of the House. It is interesting that József Ángyán, your former State Secretary, will also be speaking in this article, who resigned in 2012 because he could not agree that for the sake of a narrow mafia family, for example, land privatisation in Hungary, and through this a significant part of agricultural subsidies will be added to them and grouped together. As I said, this article has done research in nine countries, but yet Hungarian examples are the most striking and obviously the most painful to us. It is said that in Hungary a modern version of feudalism is created, in which the work and support are given to the ability to serve, the punishment is for those who do not join the line. The authors came to the conclusion from the research data that the aid scheme was deliberately confusing, severely undermining the European Union's environmental objectives, with corruption and self-interest. The Brussels leadership does not take action to change because reforms would jeopardise the unity of the EU, although the agricultural programme is the largest item in the European Union's central budget, which accounts for 40% of the budget. By the way, as we know, this support is the most serious agricultural support in the world. Every year, the European Union of 28 spends $65 billion on agricultural support for the continent, but in Hungary and unfortunately in other Central and Eastern European countries, most of it is in the hands of a well-defined circle. The article also mentions that the Orbán government has auctioned thousands of hectares of state land here to correct the fact that the situation is much more serious and that the family members, the pro-government politicians, family members, their partners, friends, neighbors, artificial nails and other acquaintances have received a significant share of these, so they have received a million agricultural subsidies from the European Union. I am very sad, as I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, that in such a context our country must appear in such a prestigious American newspaper, and it is even sadder that, unfortunately, we are faced with these findings every day, and we are also experiencing them. It is no longer about the abuse of the dominant position, the concentration of property that you have provided for it, but on a public level, on a system-wide basis, this kind of loss of money and concentration of power. You can imagine how a small farmer, an average Hungarian farmer on the same land market could remain competitive, how, let's say, to acquire another land estate, if faced with such a dominant position, and so heavily supported by those who appear on the same land market. But I can also say the same worrying differences in terms of competitiveness. It is quite clear that, instead of being able to put them in a position with the support of the little ones, the Hungarian State has effectively switched from the public interest to the capital side and is supporting them, it will further strengthen those who do not need subsidies, but restrictions, in order to leave those who start on the same track out of a more unfortunate situation, less contact capital or less land. So I hope that if nothing else, the article of the American newspaper will wake up a number of citizens and trigger the alarm bells for whom the domestic media has not yet been able to do so, since most of them do not bring down similar articles and studies. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-04-295	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
